the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pesticides directive and the pesticide regulation are properly implemented. parliament has rightly insisted on legislation that is both effective and appropriate to the problems. there has been a parliamentary dialectic, but above all there has been strong resistance in the council and there have been economic powers which have been strongly mobilized in defence of preconstituted interests. we must look instead to the general interest: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the pesticides used in the production of foodstuffs. there's an overuse of chemicals in agriculture that's hurting everyone: the food, the environment, the farmers who have to pay dearly for these industrial products. the misuse of chemicals is linked to an old model, that of agriculture based on quantity rather than quality, in which products are separated by territories, seasons and work, a model which is costly for everyone, a model which is also harmful because of its impact on the greenhouse effect. these regulations which we approve must therefore be incorporated in the construction of a healthier and more modern model of quality agriculture which is useful to the citizens and the environment with more work and more income. i must say that our work has produced positive results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the objective of reducing the presence of pesticides, and not just their hazardous nature, has only been included among the commitments to be achieved in the respective national plans, especially for high-risk substances. if priority should therefore be given to non-chemical methods, to the protection and integrity of soil and water resources, avoiding any contamination of a common good such as water, then these individual countries must have a sense of this great responsibility in reducing the sustainable use of pesticides. aerial spraying is prohibited and where there are no objective alternatives the composition, timing, intensity and times must be notified to the population in advance. progress has also been made in the area of the right to information and access to data on the internet. we would have liked to see the idea of three rigid zones dropped from the regulation, but it was retained by the council. the results are important, however, and measures will be taken to combat the smuggling of illegal, counterfeit and dangerous substances, and others alongside these. we are making a good step forward and i hope that the vote in parliament will not lead to any negative consequences!
author of the book. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, of which you are a member, has announced on several occasions the publication of its action plan on urban mobility, which was due to be submitted to the council and parliament as early as last autumn. the commission made this commitment last march, concluding the consultation on the green paper on urban mobility launched up to 2007, and reiterated it in its 2007 action plan for freight transport logistics and in its communication on the internationalisation strategy for external costs and transport in 2008. time passes, but the plan of action does not see the light. the approaching end of the current parliamentary term makes the committee i represent fear that much of the work done in these years may be lost. can you assure me, commissioner, that the action plan is ready? can you tell me that it will be made public in the coming weeks so that this parliament can finalise its recommendations, those contained in the rack resolution, towards a new culture of urban mobility, voted by this house in july 2008? the commissioner, urban mobility is undoubtedly a local phenomenon, a phenomenon which will always be governed by local competence over national and community competence, but it is not a phenomenon which can be tackled without any intervention by the state or the community. who but the european union can and must define the community role of the subject? who can and must interpret the limits imposed by the principle of subsidiarity in this field? the commission's - and therefore the eu's - failure to do this does not help solve the problems of urban transport and citizens' mobility or those related to air pollution in cities. we know that 40% of co2 emissions are attributable to urban transport and that 70% of other transport pollutants are urban, nor are those related to road safety: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. can we allow differences between member states? from city to city in urban environmental standards? in the city's road safety standards? in the standards of citizens' accessibility to mobility? or are these not the fundamental rights that the union should help to guarantee to all european citizens? so the definition of standards, uniform minimum targets, but also good practices, financial incentives, coordination and innovative projects, the construction and dissemination of reliable and comparable statistics. is this not a space which, if occupied by the union, helps to ensure that subsidiary solutions are respected, something which the member states and local authorities have every right to be jealous of? commissioner, you may be coming now to give us a list of good reasons for the delay, if not the omission, in the presentation of the urban mobility action plan. ask yourself first, if you are going to try to defend your failure to honor your commitment, whether these are real reasons and not just excuses? do not, madam commissioner, support the idea that is spreading lately that the commission has become so cautious that it has given up solving the problems of the peoples of europe in order not to disturb the states. it would be a suicidal strategy for an institution like the commission which does not emerge strengthened from the good half-year of the french presidency. delivery, delivery, delivery, to say it in english: that is what the european citizens want and for that reason and for that reason alone they are ready, i think, or they might be ready to revise upwards their appreciation of our institutions. the small example of urban mobility planning could make a very important contribution to solving this larger problem.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to convey the regrets of vice-president tajani for not being with us. he is on a very important mission to japan. let me go straight to the point. the commission remains fully committed to developing an eu policy in the field of urban mobility because it is convinced that, although responsibilities for urban mobility lie primarily with local, regional and national authorities, in some specific areas there is an added value of action at european level. as a matter of fact, although cities are all different, they face common challenges. the problems in urban mobility are significant and growing and affect many citizens and businesses, which are confronted with traffic safety problems, with limited accessibility of public transport, with congestion and health problems caused by pollution. to illustrate the importance of urban mobility, let me provide you with some figures: 60% of the population lives in urban areas and 85% of the eu gdp is created there. however, cities also generate 40% of co2 emissions, and two out of three road accidents take place in urban areas. finally, congestion, which is one of the main problems that citizens have to face everyday, is responsible for the loss of about 1% of the eu’s gdp every year. sustainable urban mobility is therefore a key element to achieve our goals with respect to climate change, economic growth and road safety. this is why the commission has been launching actions in this field since 1995, in order to promote the exchange of best practices. the highlight has been the extremely successful civitas programme that started in 2000. the 2007 green paper ‘towards a new culture in urban mobility’ then identified broad areas for potential complementary action at eu level to promote greener and safer cities and smarter and accessible urban transport. but what can be done concretely at eu level? we can help local authorities to implement related eu policies and to make best use of eu funding. eu-wide dissemination and replication of innovative approaches can give authorities the possibility to achieve more and better results at lower cost. we can help foster markets for new technologies, for example clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and facilitate harmonised standards for broad market introduction of new technologies. finally, the eu can guide authorities towards solutions that are interoperable and facilitate smoother functioning of the single market. the commission will therefore continue to act, because we think, as a large majority of stakeholders do, that there is much to be gained from working at eu level to support initiatives at the local, regional and national levels. now let me answer your question: why the adoption of the action plan on urban mobility has been delayed. unfortunately, the conditions were not appropriate for the adoption of a comprehensive action plan by the commission before the end of 2008. but my colleague vice-president tajani would like to reassure you that he remains committed to working towards the adoption of the action plan and to develop an eu policy in the field of urban transport in full respect of the subsidiarity and proportionality principles. to this purpose, it is not the intention of the commission to propose a one-size-fits-all solution; on the contrary, we would like to develop a toolbox, including short- and medium-term practical actions, in order to provide cities with the tools to address, in an integrated way, specific issues related to urban mobility. then, it will be up to local authorities to decide what is more suitable for them, according to their own objectives and needs. in order to address the concerns that might still exist regarding the strategic role of the eu in urban mobility, vice-president tajani’s intention is to demonstrate with concrete actions how the eu can add value and quality to urban mobility in europe. on the basis of the responses to the green paper and many discussions with stakeholders, a number of actions have been identified and will be launched later this year. to promote innovative solutions and new technologies, we have already opened a call for proposals, closing at the end of march, which will provide up to 50% funding to the projects selected. once the directive on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles comes into force, around march, we will initiate the development of an internet site to facilitate joint clean vehicle procurement. on information and exchange of approaches, we intend to start up, around april, a website providing information on urban mobility legislation and funding in europe, as well as on good practice. we will also reflect with stakeholders on the future of our civitas programme and how to build on the vast knowledge and experience generated in the civitas-funded actions. finally, to help increasing knowledge on sustainable mobility policies, we will launch a study on aspects related to green zones and a study on the opportunities for making public transport systems more interoperable. we intend also to establish an expert network for considering aspects of urban road pricing and internalisation of external costs. i am convinced that this package of actions, which will be soon undertaken at eu level, provides an important basis for moving forward in the field of urban mobility.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i very much agree with the comments made by my predecessors: the urban environment is now a fundamental part of all of our lives, and not just for those living in large or medium-sized cities. the data provided by the commission in the green paper 'towards a new culture of urban mobility in 2007' clearly show that 60% of the european population lives in urban areas and that a large proportion of the european gross domestic product is generated in these areas. these are the figures also cited by the commissioner. the figures have not changed in recent months, and we must take account of the growing problems of congestion in the big cities and the critical environmental issues that are still very much on the agenda, so that we cannot forget the efforts made recently by this parliament on the climate package. the european union's regional policy has provided interventions on urban mobility, and there are many forms of funding at european level: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2007-2013. the cohesion fund can also support this. i think it is very important that the union should have a common policy, a global plan of action, while respecting the subsidiarity and the powers of the member states and local authorities. the benefits of this are obvious and it is hard to understand why a plan of this magnitude has not yet been published. this is what the oral question from the committee on transport, which was supported by the committee on regional development, asked for. i hope that the commission will reconsider and really follow up the publication of the action plan on urban mobility with all the positive consequences that would result from it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year ago we decided to combine the reports on public finances for 2007 and 2008. there were at least two reasons: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the intensity of the changes was not yet known, but it was already clear that analysing the two years together would allow us to make a more complete and adequate analysis. nothing could be further from the truth. the report we are voting on tomorrow has been updated constantly. the very close link between public finances and the financial and economic crisis is clear. it is enough to think of the allocation of resources for the rescue of banks and businesses, the support of the production system, taking into account the demand coming mainly from small and mediumsized enterprises, and protection against the negative effects of the recession for citizens. all these measures are the concern of the european institutions and individual member states, but they should not undermine or weaken the prospects and our commitment to future generations. the report shall cover at least two areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the principle that quality and sustainable public finances are indispensable not for individual countries but for the survival of the european economy and social model is confirmed, indeed reinforced. as regards income, the tax base must be extended without weakening the principle of progressivity and the tax burden on labour must be reduced, especially for low- and middle-income earners and for pensions. as regards expenditure, the context, needs and composition of the population must be assessed, with attention to gender policies and demographic changes. rather than cutting indiscriminately, we need to restructure expenditure, reallocate budgetary items and modernise public administrations. a useful methodology is gender budgeting, which has long been wanted and promoted by the european parliament, but is still far from becoming commonly used, although it allows for greater transparency, comparability, awareness by the public and thus increases trust and a sense of responsibility. unprecedented instability must be dealt with firmly. if public sector intervention is to become central and essential again, it is essential to avoid repeating mistakes that would be even more unforgivable and to turn the crisis towards a new model of development that is truly environmentally and socially sustainable. when we talk about coordination at european level, we must think about having our own governance in a counter-cyclical function and with shared and unidirectional commitments, strengthening the fight against tax evasion and tax havens and linking up national plans. in the case of business support measures, the impact on competition, the functioning of the internal market and the level playing field must be assessed, and supervision, accountability, limitations and consequential behaviour must be ensured. the revision of the stability and growth pact allows for controlled flexibility, to be used with care and foresight. the common macroeconomic policies and investments in the strategic areas that have been defined in advance must be reinvigorated, with instruments such as eurobonds and with great attention also paid to subnational and regional stability plans. the report was widely supported in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, as most of the political groups agreed with this view. i hope this is a prelude to a good outcome of the vote tomorrow!
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the new directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. this is a directive of the utmost importance, and this is with a view to both the past and the future. the time has passed since the first directive, almost a quarter of a century ago, to the point where it is necessary to coordinate the legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions, as the title says, and to require a major update to take account of new requirements, which i think should be placed on the axis of greater fluidity and mobility and greater supervision and control. the work of the economic committee was very well done, thanks to the availability of the rapporteur, whom i thank again, and of the council, perhaps also in the awareness that we are dealing with an area strongly linked to the financial crisis and the urgency of providing timely and adequate responses. i think it is important to recall here briefly some points on which we have reached a good understanding and i hope that we will achieve good results. this is the case for the management company, in particular with regard to the identification of the applicable law, that of the member state of the fund, that of the management company, so as to lead to a clearer, more efficient and secure supervisory system and with regard to the agreement on the measures imperatively requested from the commission and adopted at level 2 by july 2010. this is the case with the agreement which provides the management company with procedures and mechanisms and contact persons so that consumers and investors can have precise references even in the event of appeals, if the management company is not established in their member state. the possibility of further strengthening cooperation in terms of supervision by bilateral and multilateral agreements between the competent authorities of the member states, use-it and the management company and also the agreement on merger and master feeder provisions which allow for full-scale operation of the internal market should be welcomed, although we still have some differences on the timing of the notification procedure which we would have liked and would like to have been a little more extensive and appropriate as envisaged by the council. finally, i would like to mention the progress made on the prospectus, the so-called kii for consumer protection, with the indication that we would like to see the paper copy of this prospectus distributed automatically, and not only on request, given its small size. in conclusion, i think there is broad agreement that the first reading should be completed.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years the growing role of the euro in international trade and its use as a reserve currency show that it is the world's currency of reference, that it has guaranteed monetary stability and contributed to the integration of the economies of the states which have adopted it, despite some errors of assessment which have created problems for citizens both in terms of the real exchange value between the national currency and the euro and in terms of the few checks carried out on the costs of goods and services. the euro was born without external impositions, without wars of conquest or political hegemony. it was the result of the free convergence of eleven governments, who believed in the creation of economic and monetary union, as provided for in the treaties and as an essential step in trying to achieve that political union which, unfortunately, is still a goal to be achieved. some of the problems that have occurred are due to the inefficiency of a system that had not foreseen the ways to drive the other major concomitant phenomenon, namely the acceleration of the process of globalization and the major changes in the reasons for trade at the international level. the euro has helped us to cope with a number of difficulties, the most serious of which was the current financial crisis, and it has protected us from the severe tensions that have arisen on the markets. if we had not had the euro, we would have had a worse experience than in 1992. on this 10th anniversary, we welcome the entry of slovakia, the 16th country to join the euro area. the measures taken by the ecb and the commission to deal with the current crisis have played a buffer and a containment role, but we continue to maintain, as we have done on several occasions in this house, that we consider it inconceivable to have a monetary policy that is independent of economic policy. it is true that the real situation is a bit anomalous: 16 countries with a single currency, 27 national political economies, coordinated as far as possible by the commission, and 11 countries with national currencies. coordinating monetary policy with an economic policy which does not in fact exist is certainly not an easy task, but if the institutions responsible for the economic policies of our countries do not engage in dialogue with the central banks and the ecb, which sums them up and vice versa, the european union will find it increasingly difficult to deal jointly not only with the current crisis but also with the continuing challenges that the outside world and globalisation bring us at home. we hope that recent experience will convince us of the need to face change in europe, by bringing the real economy back to the centre and by bringing greater cohesion and connection between the central bank and the european institutions responsible for policy and programme direction. the very recent energy crisis has also shown that a common economic policy on the major strategic issues is of vital interest to the citizens and cannot be postponed, and that if there is political will its birth is facilitated precisely by the increasingly evident weight of the euro.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to speak in this important chamber, so full of members from all 27 of our member states, which is a rare opportunity to have so many people listening. i should like to take this opportunity to explain my vote in favour of mr bastian belder's report on economic and trade relations with the western balkans. i am absolutely in favour of the european union making it as easy as possible for these balkan states to join the european union. i think it is important that the economic aid should be greater than that allocated to date, that there should be an opportunity to increase communications with europe from the balkan states, to develop tourism and thus enable all the citizens of the balkans, young and retired, to live better than they have done so far.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr costa on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the united states on cooperation in the regulation of civil aviation safety, as proposed by the council. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should give its favourable opinion on the signing of the agreement, because this would make it possible to speed up the exchange of products and services between the two parties in the field of airworthiness and maintenance, avoiding unnecessary duplication of assessment and verification of compliance with safety requirements, which still have to be repeated despite the many similarities. i think it is appropriate, however, that the agreement should be applied provisionally at first, so that any practical and implementation problems can be identified and eliminated before final approval is given.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mr belder's report on economic and trade relations with the western balkans. i agree with my colleague that the european union has a key role to play in the process of economic and political recovery in the countries of the western balkans, with a view to their accession to the european union, first in terms of stabilising the political situation, then in economic and trade terms. i would like to stress, however, the need for the union to analyse and assess more closely the situation of respect for human rights and democratic principles in each individual country. i am referring in particular to croatia and the many italian exiles who continue to be openly discriminated against in that territory, despite croatia's official application for eu membership. this is in my view in contradiction with the situation in serbia, which has only been granted the status of potential candidate and to which it would be desirable to open up the union more than it has done so far.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mr mcguinness on the common agricultural policy and global food security. i share the concerns expressed by my colleague and the need, now more than ever, to take appropriate measures to ensure that all citizens, both within the european union and throughout the world, have fair access to healthy and nutritious food. i would like to stress that efforts must be seen in a medium to long term perspective and therefore not just focused on the short term. it will not be enough to provide large amounts of finance to poor and developing countries if this is not accompanied by a serious commitment on the part of the industrialized countries to prevent the speculation in the prices of basic foodstuffs which has recently been seen and to provide for international agreements which take account of the profoundly heterogeneous situation between countries belonging to the world trade organization. otherwise, the already failed negotiations would continue to have little chance of success.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my favourable vote to the report by mrs weiler on the transposition, implementation and application of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices between undertakings and consumers in the internal market and directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising. i am firmly convinced that proper implementation of the directive will make it possible to make citizens fully aware of their rights. the extension of consumer rights through the unfair commercial practices directive must be accompanied by the necessary measures to facilitate the exercise of those rights. i agree with the rapporteur that a proper transposition, implementation and enforcement of the directives on unfair commercial practices and misleading and comparative advertising is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the objectives of the directives, particularly in the light of the different methods and systems of implementation and enforcement used by the member states, the complexity of some of the legal concepts contained in the directives, the number and comprehensiveness of the national rules governing unfair commercial practices and misleading advertising and the broad scope of the directives. finally, i welcome the initiative of my colleague, which is aimed at legally regulating a subject of absolute community importance.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mrs guerreiro's report on the cfp and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management. it is of fundamental importance not to confuse the policy of the sea or the oceans with that of fisheries: i fully agree with the rapporteur on this. a fisheries policy must start from the premise that there is an interdependence between the well-being of fishing communities and the sustainability of the ecosystems of which they are an integral part, in particular through the recognition of the specificity and importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing. finally, i agree with the honourable member that the first and foremost task of fisheries management, as an activity exploiting a renewable resource, is to control (directly or indirectly) the total fishing effort in order to ensure maximum sustainable catch. this approach is therefore a further step towards achieving the objectives set by the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my positive vote on the report by mrs klaß on the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. i fully agree with the adoption of the european parliament and council directive. the aim of the directive is to reduce the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment by: the commission has also proposed that the use of pesticides be reduced by setting concrete targets and implementing national action plans. the controls must also be much more restrictive so as to protect the health of the citizens. finally, i believe that the labels on the back of these products should be clear and understandable to all, so that people know the implications of the use of each individual item.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs breyer on the placing of plant protection products on the market. i share its aims and objectives, which are to ensure a high level of protection of both human health and the environment. the european union has always paid particular attention to environmental issues and this regulation is a further step towards that objective. i also believe that it is right to provide that animal testing be kept to a minimum and only be carried out in cases of absolute necessity and that the use of alternative methods be promoted so that these animals do not suffer unnecessarily.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. as rapporteur for the european strategy on the rights of the child, i would like to stress some important points in the coelho report, although other colleagues have already done so before me. first of all: the principle of ensuring a common approach to the rules on the protection of children crossing the external borders is highly appreciated. secondly: the principle is one person, one passport. this rule is important because it links biometric data directly to the document holder. this avoids all the procedures currently in use which allow children to be included in their parents' passports. this practice makes checks on the identity of the child much more difficult and unreliable, facilitating the abduction of the children concerned, and facilitating the trafficking and exploitation of children. thirdly: the report also provides for the commission to submit a report examining the technical feasibility of using fingerprints for identification purposes for children under the age of 12. it is very important to work on improving the reliability of the system, especially in the protection of minors. i would like to conclude by saying that i think it is absolutely useful in the future to identify the most sophisticated, appropriate and secure technical means of detecting and then unequivocally certifying the identity and age of the child as early as possible, possibly from birth.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report on the state of publicity, on access to european union documents, and also an opportunity to make some suggestions. i want to deal with three fundamental points in the short time we have. the first is that of the council: the european union's governments meet with legislative powers and, like any legislative assembly, should be required to publicise their work and decisions. i would like to stress this in particular because there are amendments from the group of the european people's party to separate votes on certain paragraphs, i hope they are not separate votes to delete important parts of the report. for example, in paragraph 3, the report calls for action to be taken in the case of maurizio turco, former member of the european parliament for the radical party, who won a judgment in the court of justice on the publication of legal opinions of the legal service of the european institutions, as well as on the obligation to identify the delegations of the member states to the council. we have a right to know who votes and how in the council and so i hope that there will not be a vote against this paragraph 3, as well as paragraph 9 which asks to know what is happening in coreper, in the committee of permanent representatives, that they know the meeting documents, that they do not classify all the documents of international politics because they are diplomatic documents. this is a very important point! the other point we raise is that of parliament, of our parliament, because we must be the first to give publicity. as italian radicals we call it the "public register of elected representatives", that is, a register where everything is known about parliamentary activities, attendance, absence, how votes are cast and, of course, the money received. it would be a mistake, and i say this because there is also a separate vote on paragraph 5, to think that if we keep some of this information confidential - i say this to mrs cederschiöld, i know she is sensitive about this - we will really succeed simply because if we keep this information confidential we will become more exposed to even aggressive, demagogic initiatives against members. we know that there are colleagues who have filmed other members of parliament, who have invented spies for other members of parliament. the way to avoid this is not just to prevent this, but to give full publicity to our work, to avoid people having to look through the keyhole and to open the door, to broadcast the committees, the meetings, all the acts of this parliament on the internet. the third point i want to raise concerns the formats, because on this point too we have a separate vote request from the european people's party in paragraph 7. when we ask for documents to be used with open-source word processors, then from a technological point of view, a real multilingualism and technologies that allow people with disabilities to have access to information and documents. i hope that there will be no objection in this parliament to multilingual access in an open format and with technologies that facilitate access for people with disabilities, because this is a fundamental element for a part of the citizens of the european union. we know that the commission has proposed a reform of our rules, we will deal with it in the cashman report, but this resolution is a first opportunity to set some benchmarks for this parliament, i hope it will not be wasted, by neglecting the crucial issues that i am trying to propose in this document!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will speak for a few seconds only to say that i share a great deal of cappato's work. it could not be otherwise, since i believe i was the only italian member of parliament who tried to publish in his little book, year by year, in which i give an account of my parliamentary activities, the list of the attendances and the number of questions that are asked here in our parliament as part of the italian delegation. i would be much happier if, for example, the italian press, which has too often pointed the finger at the caste, had perhaps published a figure which may not be emblematic in itself, but which is nevertheless indicative of the kind of activity that the italian parliamentarian carries out in this chamber, all the more so when this can serve to highlight how the activity, if well done, is independent of the representativeness that produced the election, in the sense that one tries to do a service to one's whole system. i applaud marco's initiative in this. i'll vote for almost anything that involves your proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am quite sure that mr cappato's report has carefully avoided offending the right of public servants who are concerned about their privacy and the appropriateness of keeping certain situations which must be kept confidential. this is certainly a very important reason for approving your report, but i would like to reverse the concerns of some of us who fear that their freedom of action and their confidentiality will be infringed. let's see what happens when it's the public administrator who wants to know something about what we citizens do. we can 't have any secrets . in some of our states, we even have intercepts of private phone calls between husbands and wives, fathers and children, and so on. we must not be afraid that the citizen will know exactly why he is receiving not only laws but also decisions such as those of the commission and the council, rather than legislative decisions of our parliament. i congratulate you on this initiative.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this debate and this discussion. i think it is difficult to summarise but, if i were to do so, i would repeat what some of you have said about this being a fundamental element in any democracy. i prefer to look at it from the point of view of citizens: the right of citizens to know what is going on and to have access to information and documents and to then be able to make an informed choice. we will all have a very crucial year, because on the 7 june the citizens of europe will vote in elections. it is, of course, absolutely fundamental that they have access to information. we are still carrying a burden of historical differences in culture and views on what should be made public or not. i think we are still struggling with that in some cases. i come from a country where we have a very long tradition of the principle of openness and access to documents, while in other member states it has been the opposite: it is first secret and only the things you decide should not be secret should be made public. i think this is still something that we have to try to tackle and deal with. i think that the report has also shown all the linkages and the interlinkages between all these issues and we have to look at it from a political point of view. again, the beauty of the lisbon treaty is that it would actually extend the right of information and access to documents and hopefully help end the ‘blame game’, as it would also give us a chance to follow what goes on in the european council. mr cashman and others mentioned this and i think it is so important for all of us. i hope you know that you can count on me to continue, on a daily basis, to strive to make sure that the commission improves its access to documents. we can look at what we do in the committees; we can improve what we do on registers and on a number of points that mr cappato has raised and that are helpful to us. i think you should keep up the pressure on the commission, but you have also shown that it concerns parliament as well. you can also improve and add to openness and transparency. this is certainly a part of strengthening democracy in europe. we will have the chance to do some work on this during preparations for the ep elections. that would be one of the ultimate tests for all of us. thank you very much for the discussion and we will come back to it very soon when we discuss regulation (ec) no 1049/2001.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner very much. i did not speak earlier, but the report acknowledges that there has been an improvement in the actual access to positive responses, to requests for access to documents. what i've been trying to point out is the need, as it were, for a change of setting, a paradigm where information is already designed to be public as it is produced. mr cederschiöld, i am not asking for a greater bureaucratic burden in having to tell and publicize everything, but for a system which is already in place so that not only is there access to a document when you ask for it, but that there is already access to information when it is produced, of course respecting the confidentiality of political groups and the meetings of political groups, i say this also to mr doyle, to mr herrero who has left. i am talking about greater and easier access to information, which does not mean, of course, that groups should not be allowed to hold meetings behind closed doors. i'm not talking about an absolute and ideological obligation for any meeting, but for there to be an infrastructure ready to do this. i do not think it is true what mr herrero said, that the information on attendance, votes, etc. is all there and all available. it's not true. there are the minutes of the individual committees and the information can be gathered by going through a whole series of inquiry meetings. i myself have been a direct victim. an italian newspaper published a page with big headlines in which i was the most absent of all, simply because i took over halfway through the term and they calculated the few months i had just entered compared to the previous three years. this is an example of how we must be the ones to make information available in a way that allows maximum readability, so that manipulation and abuse based on that information is prevented. i know that the dignity of parliamentary work is not exhausted by attendance and absence, but i do not understand why we should be the ones to hide half of this data, opening the door ourselves to the worst and most demagogic manipulations. i hope that on these issues, such as the issue of access to data for disabled people - i do not know why a separate vote was called by the ppe group on this - i really hope that there will be no last-minute surprises, because i think this is a matter of fundamental importance for everyone. thank you, mr. president, for your tolerance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 january 2009 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by alexander graf lambsdorff, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the coordination of procedures for the award of certain public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts in the fields of defence and security (com (2007) 0766) - c6-0467/2007 - 2007/0280 (cod)) (a6-0415/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries are by their very nature the most globalised of the professions and are facing globalisation in all its fullness. it is estimated that some 30 million workers are employed in this sector, and these people are exposed to considerable hardship and danger in addition to the effects of globalization. a comparison of the number of fatalities in the fishing industry with the rate of fatalities at work in general, according to the international labour organisation statistics, shows that fishing is one of the most risky professions in the world. all the european institutions support a widely recognised decent work programme. the commission has recently reinforced its commitment with a renewed social agenda and report following up on the 2006 decent work communication. an important part of the commission's approach is to promote international labour standards. the general improvement of safety, medical and legal protection in the fisheries sector and the approximation of the level of social protection enjoyed by other workers can only be achieved if efforts are made to establish minimum standards at global level. the eu member states, as members of the international labour organisation, have contributed within their means and with the support of the commission to the development of an updated and comprehensive convention setting out such international minimum standards, complemented by compliance mechanisms and enforcement mechanisms such as inspections in foreign ports subject to certain conditions. together with a non-legally binding recommendation, the convention was adopted by the highest body of the international labour organisation in june 2007. convention 188 revises several older ilo standards relating to fishermen and its entry into force could create a level playing field and a better environment for all. the convention regulates such matters as minimum age, medical examinations, crew placement, rest periods, employment contracts, repatriation, recruitment and placement of workers, pay, accommodation and food, medical care and social security. parts of the new convention relate to the coordination of social security, an area of exclusive community competence. the council must therefore authorise the member states to ratify those parts. several other topics are also covered by the area of shared competence. given that the new international labour organisation standard must take effect as soon as possible, the commission proposes that the convention should include a call on member states to seek the deposit of their instruments of ratification as soon as possible, preferably by 21 december 2012. this call will be supported by a review of the ratification situation by the council by january 2012.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. it is therefore a sector which requires extensive regulation and comprehensive international standards to ensure adequate protection of the living and working conditions of fishermen throughout the world, who are often exposed to serious exploitation situations. the convention 188 on labour in fisheries is therefore a key piece of legislation, designed to establish equal conditions of organization in the sector and fairer conditions of competition. as has been said, it promotes decent living and working conditions for fishermen, health and safety at work, adequate rest periods, the composition of the crew list, repatriation, recruitment, wages and social security. we would therefore - and this first debate has also shown how much we agree on the importance of this measure - simply stress the need and urgency of its ratification by the member states so that it can be considered as coming into force as soon as possible.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the very moment when our debate is taking place, bombs are falling on the people of gaza and i think that our top priority as members of parliament, and of the council and the commission, must be to stop the bombing of the people of gaza. i think that is our duty at this moment, beyond the definition and the differences that exist between us in the definition of who is responsible, and i must say that our green group and the european free alliance have some rather clear ideas on this, as we will say this afternoon. mr president, you began your speech by speaking of medieval history, an age that was violent, distant, dark with some light, but certainly violent and dark. in fact, despite the efforts of your coalition partners, the programme for these six months seems to us to be strongly marked by a vision that is a little out of date, so to speak, strongly marked by a conformist, extremely liberal approach, all business and all market, which is now, mr president, out of fashion. i think he is also a little indifferent to the need for policies, laws and social instruments that respond to the real needs of citizens, a little off track in his conception of environmental policy, of combating climate change as a cost, an obstacle, and not a great opportunity for innovation and sustainable growth and even, let me say, a little macho, when he says that we need to revise the barcelona targets on childcare support facilities, with the aim of of course of sending women back home. a programme, therefore, which sees migration as a security issue only, which pushes nato rather than multilateralism, which is still playing around with this missile story and does not really put the emphasis on what is really important to us in foreign policy and that is the cohesion, the cohesion of our union. we also do not like the fact that there is no mention of a very important area such as anti-discrimination, and on this point i would like to know what priority you agree to give to the adoption of the directive on discrimination. i mean, a program that shows a world with too many dangers and too few opportunities. you have spoken of your mediation work in the russian-ukrainian gas conflict, but it is very clear from your programme that your presidency will not take any clear action against those countries, such as slovakia and bulgaria, which are taking advantage of the gas crisis to reopen dangerous and obsolete nuclear plants, and then, mr president, please, there is no such thing as a safe nuclear power plant, perhaps in 30, 40, 50 or 60 years' time i do not know, but there is none now. so it's useless to talk about it because it's a very expensive mirage and it certainly distracts us from what our real priorities are. energy security and solidarity require strong and unwavering action to promote energy efficiency and saving, which is a huge building block for innovation, employment and consumption reduction. the highway to respond, by the way, to the gas war. we ask you, mr president, to convince your colleagues to put the binding 20% energy saving target by 2020, the cinderella of last year's energy package, at the heart of the spring european council and to review your priorities by making a less superficial contribution to the decisions taken in december on renewable energy. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the lisbon treaty is not perfect, but it is very strange that you have not yet ratified it. so please, take this opportunity to explain why and maybe tell us when you will do it. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sympathetic to the czech presidency and hope that it will bring europe from the useless brussels bla-bla to the facts on the subject of combating the shame of the trafficking in human flesh by illegal immigrants in the mediterranean. minister maroni, at a recent meeting of the interior ministers of cyprus, greece, italy and malta, finally sounded a wake-up call to europe. it is time for europe to take stock of the seriousness of the situation in the mediterranean: the european union is a major player in the fight against drugs and trafficking in africa and asia. the czech presidency considers it essential to urgently take specific measures to give the ministers of the interior powers to negotiate readmission agreements with third countries of origin of illegal immigrants. we must strengthen frontex's action, but it must be coordinated with the appropriate instruments and means, and europe must understand that it will only be effective if it is linked to policies for the readmission of illegal immigrants and funds for countries, like mine, which must take in illegal immigrants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking in the mediterranean, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. he goes to lampedusa as a politician and then maybe he comes back as a tourist, the most beautiful island in the mediterranean! (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as always in europe we are living through important historical situations and the six-month czech presidency is certainly one of them. the problems which this presidency will have to solve are many and important: the way forward has already been set for the lisbon treaty, which needs final approval, but it needs a further boost to ensure that it does not extend beyond the current year. the serious world economic crisis has not yet had its full effect, which will certainly be felt in a significant way during the year. it is desirable that the path already taken by the french presidency be continued so that the next g8, with the italian presidency, will produce results suited to european needs. europe is facing a serious energy supply problem: it is a matter of considerable gravity and the solution seems complex. however, a solution may be on the way, but the future must be guaranteed, given the dependence of many countries, including my own, on these supplies. the situation in the gaza strip cannot be tolerated any longer. we must not deal with terrorists, but we must stop once and for all the attacks on the israeli people and we must not tolerate any more the deaths of innocent civilians on the front lines of an absurd and unfortunately permanent war. immigration must be solved in a european way and for this reason we must also pay close attention to the situation of certain states, including italy and malta, which have many difficulties in this respect. the cyprus problem must be dealt with in the short term, in order to resolve once and for all the relationship between greece and turkey, between europe and turkey, which is still waiting for accession. finally, mr president, i hope that you will always be present in this chamber, and i wish you a very good day and congratulate you on being here after your first reply. we are not very used to the previous presidencies. thank you, that means this is a good sign.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr topolánek, you have spoken of the eastern partnership. the partnership is a fairly recent invention of this european union, it did not exist in the europe that the founding fathers of the manifesto of ventotene wanted, in the europe of the first post-world war lustres. it was europe that gave its borders the prospect of accession also to eastern europe and eastern europe. europe has been a factor of peace not because it offered the prospect of partnership at its borders, but because it offered the prospect of membership, of being part of it. the french presidency that preceded it, on the other hand, was very clear, if we are talking about barriers, in wanting to define the borders of europe, slamming the doors in the face of turkey first and making it clear that the european union wants to close its borders. the result is that within the borders of the european union - whereas in past decades there was hope for countries like yours - today there are wars and tensions in the middle east, the balkans, the caucasus, the urals and the maghreb. the invitation we wish to make to you, as a non-violent radical party, is to consider the urgency, once again, of a united states of europe, which opens itself to membership, to members, and not to the confused relations of partnership, a partnership which denies the integration of what is most important: the european union is a global community of civil and political rights for european citizens and at europe's borders.
in writing. thank you, mr president, and sincerely good work to the czech republic. your presidency is not the best of times: the underlying euroscepticism that has underpinned many czech acts in the recent past (see the failure to ratify lisbon to date) does not help the optimists either. the statement by the president of the council on gaza also showed a lack of institutional sense: the positions must be agreed with the other 26 states. we also deplore the fact that the pse did not meet: the council president has never before found time to talk to a large political group in the ep. we hope that you will surprise us, mr president, with an effective and authoritative action: in that case, at the end of the semester, we'll have the intellectual honesty to honor you.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. i would like to inform the house that, at the express request of the parliamentary journalists' association, we must also indicate the number of votes cast for, against or abstentions for each vote. we wanted to make your life easier, but it's not possible. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say a few words on the agenda. you have announced that, at the request of the journalists, a respectable group, you will announce all the votes, but it seems to me that the rules of parliament should be made by members of parliament and not by journalists. i would like to know whether this is the association of blind journalists, because journalists can very well see the outcome of the vote on the screen. if anything, deaf reporters can have a problem if you say things. (applause) i would like to thank
mr speroni, i have some difficulty in making a personal and exclusive assessment of the difficulties of working as a journalist, but as this request has reached the bureau at this time, i believe that a reply - i probably personally share your view - but a reply is appropriate to be given by the bureau; the next bureau is already scheduled to have the question on the agenda for the answer to be given.
as i said, the bureau will be asked to give a definitive answer. let us now proceed to the vote.
before the vote on the first part of paragraph 32
amendment no 8 has been withdrawn and you cannot therefore vote on paragraph 36. - before the vote on paragraph 161
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on paragraph 166 i would just like to point out that the original english text is reliable, because there are too many translations which completely distort the meaning, for example the italian translation speaks of 'dignified death'. i won't go into details, but the version that counts is the english version.
thank you for reminding us of this, and i will remind you of it at the appropriate time without giving mr cappato the floor again, because we have to vote on paragraph 161 for the time being, because we still have to vote on the original text of the paragraph, having rejected the amendment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to be shorter than usual in saying that i voted in favour of the lambsdorff report, which is a step forward for common security and defence, but i ask myself and you when we shall finally have a real european defence, a real european army, a real chance to save money and defend ourselves as europe? i hope, president as soon as possible!
it is not for me to give an immediate answer in this case, which would be complicated, but let us proceed to further explanations of vote, this time on the schlyter report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on fundamental rights, although i voted against in the final vote, i voted for and i am in favour of paragraph 81 in which my friend giusto catania, who is looking at me from his desk at the moment, states that he calls on the member states to make it as easy as possible for young people, the elderly and the disabled to have better access to the labour market. mr giusto catania - who is 100% correct - certainly thought, although he did not write it, that not only access to work but also access to pensions should be improved, since we are talking about the elderly. so pensions for the young, the disabled and the elderly. i am sure he agrees that young people also retire as young people and then work as old people. i see you're applauding. i think you would agree with me, but since my speeches are being published on the internet, i would like to make it clear that i am saying what i have said in order to emphasize in a friendly way that elderly people also have a right to a pension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what mr pirker has said here, so i need not dwell on it any further. i think mr catania has the wrong subject, this report should not even have come to this house because the offices should check whether a report is in keeping with the subject and the title of the place or whether it is something else entirely. this report is quite another matter and does not in fact refer to the title and office of the heir. as regards the specific question, the one concerning paragraph 49, i would have preferred the house to adopt the original text without amending it. i voted against the report as a whole for the reasons i have just given.
we now move on to the explanations of vote on the cappato report, we have already heard mr mitchell.
- i know. last but not least, syed kamall!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the coelho report on security features and biometric elements in passports and travel documents. i agree with the proposal to use passports for children too, in order to prevent trafficking and kidnapping. the minimum age of six years is shared, but the document must contain the name of the person or persons who have parental authority over the child for the reasons mentioned above. finally, i agree with mr coelho when he proposes the introduction of a three-year review clause, in order to await the results of a large-scale in-depth study on the determination of the reliability and usefulness of fingerprints taken from children and the elderly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european social fund.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr graf lambsdorf on public procurement in the fields of defence and security. the implementation of a european security and defence policy requires the development of the necessary capabilities, which in turn requires an efficient european industry. the creation of a european defence industrial and technological base and a european defence equipment market are steps in this direction. these two actions build the capabilities needed to address global defence challenges and emerging security challenges. i therefore agree with my colleague that the proposal for a directive must aim at creating a single european legal framework which will enable the member states to apply community law without jeopardizing their security interests. finally, i agree with the introduction of an appeal procedure in the law. this achieves the objective of ensuring judicial protection for the tenderers concerned, promoting transparency and non-discrimination in the award of contracts and thus leading to a genuine opening-up of the market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the schlyter report on the amendment of the council directive on restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations. in fact, dichloromethane has many adverse effects on human health: has a narcotic and depressant effect on the central nervous system, as well as inducing cardiotoxic effects at high exposures. it is therefore necessary that the existing legislation on the health and safety of workers be applied, since in this field the implementing rules are inadequate, especially because of the large number, small size and mobile nature of the undertakings provided. finally, i agree with the honourable member that special consideration should be given to the health of children, who are particularly vulnerable to health risks because of the high potential for high exposure.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mrs figueiredo on the authorisation to ratify the international labour organisation's convention on labour in fisheries (2007) (convention no 188). the 2007 document aims, among other things, to achieve and maintain a level playing field in the fisheries sector, by promoting decent living and working conditions for fishermen and fairer conditions of competition in the world, and by seeking to remedy the low ratification rate of many conventions in the field of work at sea. to this end, the adoption of this convention represents a step forward towards the introduction of decent working conditions for workers in this important and strategic sector, since it covers various aspects of professional activity such as improvements in work safety facilities and conditions, wages, health care at sea and on land, rest periods, employment contracts and social security. finally, i welcome the initiative of my colleague, because it aims to ensure that the minimum standards applicable to all are applied universally, without prejudice to the existence of rules in individual member states which are more favourable to workers.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. but when we are dealing with the issue of fundamental rights in the eu today, we cannot help but recall the terrible events in gaza. what is happening in the middle east requires the eu to pay constant attention to the issue of respect for fundamental human rights, which are unfortunately at risk at this time. i believe that the authority and the solidity of the community institutions in the difficult negotiations which i hope will be able to progress also depend on the quality of democracy we are able to guarantee within the eu. the danger that the fight against terrorism in europe too could lead to a failure to respect fundamental rights and freedoms is unfortunately real. i look with hope to the statements by the president-elect of the united states, barack obama, on the launching of cooperation on this issue between europe and the united states. the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, i believe that special attention should be paid to the most vulnerable, children, the elderly, migrants, young people looking for work.
in writing. - my final negative vote is not so much due to the content of the report in question as to its omissions. it is not possible to discuss human rights without mentioning the first and most fundamental: the right to life. every year in the 27 countries about 1.2 million human beings are destroyed by voluntary abortion. this is a dramatic figure, to which must be added the number of illegal abortions and the incalculable number of human embryos destroyed by the use of in vitro fertilisation technology. it is important to note the diversity of opinions on this issue, but it is certain that it is deeply rooted in the culture of human rights. the resolution, on the other hand, not only ignores this problem but tries to make it go away, focusing solely on women's 'reproductive and sexual health'. no one can be against women's health, especially if they are young, pregnant and mothers, but this cannot justify the total neglect of the rights of children. it is also known that the term 'reproductive and sexual health' is used surreptitiously to include abortion as a right and a social service.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mr catania on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-08). i do not agree that the member states are prejudicing the active role of the european union in the defence of human rights in the world. i also disagree with the view that the fight against terrorism should be seen as an excuse for lowering the level of protection of human rights, and in particular the right to privacy. i therefore oppose the points concerning the roma, who do not need any special protection, otherwise a situation of substantial discrimination against the roma themselves, who are considered by this resolution as an ethnic group different from the others, would be created. finally, i disagree with the paragraph on repatriation: the procedures to be followed for the return of an individual cannot be assessed on the basis of these parameters alone.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my vote in favour of the resolution on the maritime labour convention 2006 (social dialogue procedures). i fully support the agreement reached by the social partners on certain aspects of the working conditions of workers in the maritime shipping industry as it represents a fair balance between the need to improve working conditions and the need to protect the health and safety of seafarers. i also believe that it is essential to define and apply global minimum standards for the working conditions, health and safety of personnel working at sea or on board seagoing vessels. finally, i am pleased with the role played by the social partners in improving the safety and health conditions of workers.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. today more than ever we are aware of the important role that a body such as the human rights council (cdu) can play. what has been done so far must be supported, and the active role played by the eu within the cdu must be appreciated, even with the undeniable limitations represented by the absence of the united states of america, an absence which in fact often puts the eu in a position of isolation. this should not, however, be an alibi for the eu, which must be able to make a political effort to build a united and cohesive leadership, overcoming the geographical blockage that has often occurred within it. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. i therefore warmly welcome a new analysis in anticipation of the review and reiterate that the strengthening of the cdu is a key step in the process of civilisation which the eu has always supported.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the andrikiene report on the development of the united nations human rights council and the role of the european union. the european position in this council is decisive. in fact, the eu, which places human rights and democracy at the heart of its external relations, especially in its work within the relevant international human rights bodies, has committed itself from the outset to maintaining an active and visible role in the establishment and functioning of the human rights council, with the ambition of upholding the highest standards in human rights by sponsoring or co-sponsoring norm-setting texts. i therefore welcome the proposal from my colleague, who will look at ways in which the eu can improve its influence in the human rights council and give new impetus to the council to make it a more effective operating body.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the approach of the next election requires us to provide the voting public with all the means to access the documents of the european parliament. while asking voters to trust these institutions, we must at the same time work to remove all remaining barriers to transparency and accessibility. i believe that voters should also be given the opportunity to check the activity, participation and attendance of members of the european parliament in parliamentary proceedings, in absolute, relative and percentage terms, and that access to data on members' allowances and expenditure should also be facilitated. i hope that this will be achieved by the end of this parliament.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal put forward by mr cappato on public access to parliament, council and commission documents. it is of fundamental importance to the european union that citizens feel close to the community institutions. this can only be done by public access to the documents of the three institutions. i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur when he says that the eu institutions and the member states should be asked to promote a common administrative culture of transparency, based on the principles set out in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the case law of the court of justice of the european communities, the recommendations of the european ombudsman and the best practices of the member states. finally, i welcome the initiative of my colleague, because i believe that, in order to improve and accelerate the integration process, public information must be kept at the forefront, in the light of the problems relating to the absenteeism of italian meps from the hemicycle.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all obviously concerned and shocked by this situation, but i believe that we have a duty, at least on my part, to renounce all hypocrisy. the knot starts far away: the legitimate and sacred right of the palestinians to have a free state overlaps with the equally sacred right of israel to be recognized, and we know that israel has been wiped off the map of many countries. we know that france, italy, spain and germany would certainly not have tolerated being wiped off the map, would not have accepted being regarded as non-existent. we know that israel did not start this new war and that terrorism is still one of the main problems! i therefore believe, mr president, that we have a duty today, without hypocrisy, to start thinking in different terms. we cannot think that dialogue with terrorists is justified by the fact that so many civilians have died, because this creates an excuse for any terrorist in the future to use violence, force and death to gain political legitimacy. i believe that we as the european union must finally find greater cohesion, the capacity to deal also with the issue of economic relations with countries which do not recognise israel, to guarantee humanitarian routes which allow civilians, palestinians and israelis, to be brought to safety, in which case the palestinians suffer the most, and having said that, mr president, i think it is also appropriate to review the position on the aid we give and which is used without control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rahed is 50 years old, he has lost his home, three children, his wife and two sisters-in-law. rahed is desperate and he's in the center we visited. rahed said with great anguish "hamas will say that they won when this aggression is over, israel will say that they won, in fact we civilians died". i would also say that in reality, with the bodies of children and women we have seen lying in hospital and without treatment, the wounded, more than 4,000, the dream of a europe which wants human rights to be universal rights is dying, and that is a tragedy! we are ineffective. commissioner ferrero-waldner, you know that i have great respect for you and i know that you are acting and doing a great deal with others. i think we must understand clearly and unambiguously that this military war, this militarism of israel, leads not only to the salvation of israel, but also to its moral end, as david grossmann says when he commemorates rabin, who was killed by a jewish fundamentalist and not an islamic one because he wanted to bring peace. hold your fire! hold your fire! i was told by a norwegian doctor who is operating every day and working 24 hours (we send doctors to gaza). a ceasefire is what we want! then the security council must start to put its words into practice. yes to diplomacy, we must also use not only diplomacy, we must also use the tools we have and then one tool we also have for israel is precisely that of upgrading and i am pleased to hear that today for example the representative of the european commission in tel aviv said that now is not the time to think about upgrading, let us pause because what we have to do is to cease fire. it's very important. i think it's important and it's a strong message. you said protection and international protection. i think it is a mistake to think only of gaza and rafah. the protection for the civilian population comes from the north, it comes from the israeli attacks coming from herez. border control is a general border control, rafah and herez, because the palestinians have always been, since 1992, since the oslo accords, the palestinians cannot leave herez, and you know that very well, and the sick do not leave either. so we must think not only of the tunnels, of the weapons that can arm hamas, but of the absolute abolition of all the bans on the palestinians. cease fire and open not only humanitarian corridors, open all the crossings, because if people don't have food, if people don't have the trade that can be done, then it's really strong pressure for hamas to stop being and doing actions that affect the israeli population, but israel knows that there is the west bank that is occupied militarily and really make peace, not build settlements. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the vast majority of this house share the hopes for peace and the concerns that have been expressed by many people. i also believe that the council's position is acceptable and i believe that the commission has followed a path which can be useful for dialogue: the opening of the gates for humanitarian purposes, the bilateral ceasefire, could be the prelude to a subsequent commitment to the organization of an international safety belt. perhaps mrs morgantini is right here when she calls for this strip not only to cover gaza but to extend to all the palestinian territories. i have the impression that commissioner ferrero waldner's hopes and diplomatic activity are at least somewhat in line with what the holy father has tried to do. i humbly share this approach: we must not forget that we must still seek, after so many years, a solution for two peoples and two states, and finally affirm international law. there is no military solution and there never will be. mr schultz has said that, and i have to remind him from time to time. i also believe that the european union has the means to support any useful diplomatic effort in this regard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this immense tragedy, our words may be inadequate. an army that kills hundreds of civilians, women and children, puts itself on the same level as the terrorism it claims to fight. on the other hand, anyone who knows gaza, even if only by looking at it on a map, knows that no military operation could be conceived without taking into account a massacre of civilians. can israel today feel any safer after so much hatred and despair? and with whom, directly or indirectly, but with hamas, will we have to find a way out of this blind violence? our resolution reinforces the call for a ceasefire already expressed by the un security council. we call on the parties to respect it and we ask europe to make it possible. the risk is that this massacre, far from defeating hamas, mr brok, will further weaken the palestinian authority itself and those in the palestinian world who have put everything on the table for negotiations with israel. the question is, what have they actually achieved so far? i didn't say anything. this is the answer we must give if we are to really begin to eradicate hatred and violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the words of commissioner poettering and president poettering are very much to be appreciated, when they denounced in no uncertain terms the serious responsibility of hamas for breaking the ceasefire, but they were equally clear in their judgment that the israeli reaction was totally disproportionate. but beyond words, the crisis remains and there are still thousands of people, civilians and children, who are in desperate need of humanitarian aid. in all conscience and without hypocrisy, perhaps we should ask ourselves some questions. while our children were celebrating christmas, how many died in gaza? 200, 300, and how many israeli civilians? could the international community do more? i think so! you should have done more! we must feel the full weight of our responsibilities! it is not enough to pass judgments on hamas, on israel, on the beginning of responsibility, on who is more to blame. unfortunately, beyond the emergency, there is the inadequacy of europe. i think that this is a serious failure, an inability to build a genuine, strategic and lasting peace policy. today, of course, we must call for a ceasefire, but that is not enough. we must set our conditions with severity in order to accompany the process of peace and development in the middle east. i would also like to end by recalling the words of the pope, who said that we must give concrete answers to the widespread desire in those territories to live in peace, security and dignity, as my colleague mrs morgantini also said. i'm really closing up, president. violence, hatred, distrust are forms of poverty, perhaps the most terrible to combat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a great italian anti-fascist, piero gobetti, said that when the truth is all on one side, a solomonic position is completely biased. that is the situation in gaza these days, and i hope that this parliament will say the right words to stop israel. if it does not, it will be a disgrace to history, to the palestinians, to european and arab public opinion. israel is bombing and decimating a ghetto. the children of those who were exterminated became exterminators. there is no excuse for this, nor is there any argument that israel has a right to its own security. anyone who wants to can see that no one is capable of threatening israel's security and existence today. the balance of forces on the ground, the number of dead and wounded, the support which the west continues to give to israel, all show this. this murder has no other purpose than to prevent the creation of a palestinian state. this is the way to kill peace and that is why we must stop israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the president of the council and the czech foreign minister for still being here with us. we are not very used to such a strong presence in this chamber as the czech presidency has shown today. i think mrs muscardini is right, and i would advise those who are not familiar with the local situation and who need to express their views to go and see the place, whether it be for sightseeing or for other activities. some of us have been in palestine under various circumstances, as observers for the abu mazen elections or other elections, and i believe that only direct vision can give an accurate knowledge of how things are. i think that in all this, but not for decades now, the only losers are us in the western world, because we never seriously addressed this problem, we never tried to solve it, and we continue to see it as a fact between two opposing sides. i believe that in reality, i have been to palestine several times, i have been to israel several times, i know the situation, not perfectly, but i know it well enough, i believe that there are not two parties involved, but three, and in this specific case the problem is between terrorists and the state of israel and the palestinian people as the intermediate victim. hamas does not represent the palestinian people, perhaps a part of it, but it certainly does not represent the entire palestinian people. i have a video, but i think many colleagues will have, a video showing all the israeli victims, children of all ages, victims of all the rockets that have been launched and continue to be launched by hamas. it is no coincidence that there is a big difference between the gaza strip and the west bank. i believe, and i say this to the president of the council, and to our good commissioner who represents europe: we have to take this seriously. i think the most serious thing of all is that today we must strengthen the position of abu mazen, who is the weakest figure of all, and in this situation, with the palestinians who count for nothing in this matter. i think we're all the losers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that there is no longer any reason to maintain any kind of sanctions against belarus. we are seeing a country that is certainly in crisis, like all the countries of europe, but it is a country that allows the right to property, a country that until a few months ago had 8% growth and that does not prevent foreigners, europeans, from buying land or houses, even through belarusian companies. as regards religious freedom, cardinal bertone recently visited belarus and relations between the belarusian state and the vatican have certainly developed in a spirit of mutual respect. apart from political freedoms, yes, there has been talk of some prisoners, but there is talk of three political prisoners who have been released. we are also talking about political elections, which certainly do not have the general freedom that we have in western elections, but certainly have granted television spots or even, in some cases, contributions from the state for all candidates. we also know that some newspapers, in these weeks, independent newspapers, will have the opportunity to be published, to be circulated. i think it is in europe's strategic interest to open up to belarus, precisely because belarus is a very important point between europe and russia. we must remember that there is a strong catholic minority, which brings poland closer to its neighbour and the rest of europe and makes this country a strategic ally in relation to the rest of eastern europe. it is a paradox that today we are talking about turkey's accession to europe, when belarus is absolutely playing a much stronger and more valuable role as a partner of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of complicated relations, we are seeing some tentative steps in the right direction: the recognition of milinkiewicz's movement, the authorization of several non-governmental newspapers, the first willingness to discuss the osce/odihr recommendations. but the road is still not long, but very long. the hope is that a new course has been taken in eu-belarus relations, and the history of the denial of visas to members of our delegation is very embarrassing, and we hope that it will be a bad memory. on one point, like mr burke, i ask the commission and the council to make a commitment at the next joint meetings: the clear and shared definition of rules on medical stays of belarusian minors in european families. in recent years, belarus has often, all too often, treated the matter with superficiality or rigidity, literally slapping the host families and, unfortunately, the children and young people affected by the aid and solidarity projects.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me conclude today’s debate on srebrenica. first of all, i want to assure you that the council remains determined that the perpetrators of crimes in srebrenica, in bosnia and herzegovina, as well as elsewhere in the region of the western balkans, must be brought to justice. our esdp mission in bosnia and herzegovina continues to provide support and assistance to the icty and relevant authorities. srebrenica is, and will remain, a sensitive and important factor in the political life of bosnia and herzegovina and also of the eu and wider international community. let me use this opportunity to call upon the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to refrain from abusing this painful and unspeakable historical experience for their political purposes. they should, rather, engage proactively to lead their country towards a better future. there is a need to continue joint efforts, not just in srebrenica but in bosnia and herzegovina as a whole. if srebrenica happened because there was not enough european spirit, then we should do our utmost to help this country embark on the right path. this means towards the eu. the first big step towards europe was already achieved with signing the saa agreement as the beginning of a long accession process, but much more is needed, more courage and confidence, to strive for wholehearted reconciliation underpinned by tangible prospects of integration. we all have the obligation to the dead not to make victims out of the living. this is our obligation for generations to come.
member of the commission. − mr president, mrs ibrisagic, i was one of those people watching on television when these terrible things happened. we all thought that safe havens would be safe havens. so i was, like many others, terribly shocked when we heard what had happened – or slowly experienced the reality. in the european union, i think we have only learned by hard lessons what we have to do, and we then slowly started the common foreign and security policy. this was the first item, so to speak, and we have then gone on because we saw that this terrible massacre happened because we were not united. once again, i can only pay tribute to you for being here today and speaking so openly for reconciliation. for those who live with that memory, it must be very difficult, but at the same time i think that the possibility of bosnia and herzegovina becoming a member of the european union in the future is perhaps something that can aid reconciliation with all these terrible atrocities.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the transport of animals, by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0134/2008 - b6-0496/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the european union to support the recognition of the mediterranean diet as a cultural heritage by unesco reaffirms, first of all, the right to protect the identity of peoples in their profound relationship with their territory. but the institutional commitment of italy, spain, greece and morocco cannot be limited to obtaining a mere prestigious award. i believe that we must rebuild the link, which is increasingly weak and fragile today, between agricultural products and the food we eat every day, that is to say, educate consumers who are aware of the principles of healthy eating and seasonality of products, which must be natural again, without additives and without chemical preservatives. products whose consumption, as the international scientific community assures us, reduces important cases of mortality. i am thinking, for example, of extra virgin olive oil, wine production and our fruit, particularly the red orange of sicily, which is unique in the world for its antioxidant-rich pigments. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, obesity is becoming a serious and i would say a major problem throughout europe, especially among young people. according to experts, if we care about the health of our children, the real recipe to follow on a daily basis is a return to the traditions of mediterranean cuisine, the only life insurance that no financial crisis can ever touch. the recipe of alfonso iaccarino, a well-known italian chef and member of the expert committee for the recognition of the mediterranean diet as intangible cultural heritage of humanity, is a return to nature, simple foods, traditions, diversity and quality in the kitchen. the mediterranean diet is not just bread and pasta, it's also movement, physical activity, lifestyle. the mediterranean diet of extra virgin olive oil and fine wine has excellent health benefits: olive oil lowers blood cholesterol, wine, taken in moderate amounts, has an antioxidant effect. thanks to the mediterranean diet, italians have set the record for longevity in europe and the record for the best body mass, which is the ratio between weight and height. i conclude: the italian senate recently unanimously approved a document in favour of the recognition of the mediterranean diet as a world heritage. i hope that the european parliament will also agree with this and that the commission will follow suit. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful first of all to the chairman of parliament's committee on agriculture, mr parish, for bringing up this question after the important hearing of experts that we held in that committee. it is undeniable that the mediterranean diet is part of the historical and cultural heritage of our continent, as is its undeniable health principle. the same committee, in the white paper on obesity, identified it as a natural medicine that is absolutely adequate. the health benefits are scientifically proven and enjoy wide success abroad, beginning in the united states. it is therefore possible that the concept is extended to the point of distorting its originality. that is why the recognition by unesco establishes a definition to protect this peculiarity, and i would like to say to mr parish that it is because of this peculiarity that we speak today, in european gastronomic culture, of mediterranean food, but certainly not as the only peculiarity of the european gastronomic wealth. commissioner, you have kept up your predecessor's commitment to make this initiative a priority, and i thank you for that. you have stressed that you have no decisionmaking power in the unesco procedure, but i think you can make a statement and do some diplomatic work ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting from a concept: the mediterranean diet, as confirmed by numerous studies, is a good way to combat obesity and cardiovascular disease and is generally very good for human health in many ways. but the point here is not to try to impose the mediterranean diet on the whole of the eu or to try to favour it over other diets that are better adapted to climates and regions other than the mediterranean. but we have a duty to protect it, to define it in its content and its characteristics, to defend it against external imitations and contamination which could damage its image and value. it must therefore be valued, like all other european cultural expressions that deserve to be defended and promoted at global level. it is a model which the world is trying to copy and it is therefore important to specify its peculiarities and safeguard it, to avoid an entirely european heritage being lost in the sea of globalisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank those who have compromised this initiative. i want to thank the more than 440 members who have signed. this parliament calls on eutelsat to resume ntdtv broadcasts in china: the freedom to inform and to learn is a fundamental human right. this parliament demonstrates, as it did with the sakharov prize to hu jia, as it did with the invitation to the dalai lama, that when we criticise china or the eu on human rights we are doing so in favour of the freedom of the chinese people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the resolution despite the fact that there were some very good and balanced elements in it. i think that there is no longer any reason to maintain a sanctions regime against belarus. in terms of economic, political and religious freedom, it is a country that has almost totally followed the criteria of freedom that we believe in. i think that it is necessary to start genuine relations with belarus in order to integrate this country fully into europe, especially at a time when we are also starting relations with russia. belarus can be a good bridge between europe and russia and i believe that rather than threatening sanctions, we should start a genuinely profitable relationship with this country.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs mathieu on budgetary control of eu funds in afghanistan. the report draws very clear conclusions about the results achieved so far by community aid since the signing of the agreement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am referring in particular to the reduction in infant mortality, the improvement in access to basic health care and the large increase in the number of children in school. i also agree with the rapporteur that efforts to improve coordination between donors at community and international level should be encouraged in order to avoid duplication and sources of corruption in the country. it is also essential that the control system be more effective than ever in cases of financial assistance to a country which is suffering from serious social and political problems, otherwise the risk is that the situation will worsen when the aim is to improve it. i therefore hope that this system of control, especially ex ante, will be improved and applied to a greater extent than has been done so far.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr madurell on equal treatment for men and women in access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. i agree with your colleague that the principle of equality in the labour market is still far from being applied in practice, despite the efforts of the european union to increase the proportion of women in employment in the framework of the lisbon objectives. i agree with the rapporteur's views on the transposition of directive 2002/73/ec by the member states and the need for all to put into practice the instruments that this directive makes available in order to strengthen national legislation on equal treatment between women and men in the labour market: gender equality in employment is not only an ethically worthwhile principle but is and will be the basis for sustainable and lasting economic development in the european union as a whole.
in writing. - to distinguish the position of the radical party from those who express their views for reasons opposite to ours in this chamber, we have drawn lots to see who abstains and who does not participate in the vote. the solution which the eu is promoting for a long-term, structural peace in the middle east, as reiterated today in strasbourg by president poettering, is that of two sovereign and independent states. the founding fathers of europe had the opposite conviction: in order to have peace, we must give up absolute national sovereignty. that's what the manifesto of ventotene said. today, we should listen to the overwhelming majority of israeli citizens who are calling for israel's membership of the eu, ignored by the israeli establishment as well as the european establishment. the 'inclusive' post-war europe, open to accession and a reference point for neighbouring states, has been a factor in peace, albeit inadequately so. the 'exclusive' europe of the nation states, of the aspiration for european 'borders' and 'judeo-christian roots' is a europe which produces wars in the near east, the balkans and the caucasus. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. as the radical nonviolent party we believe that the structural solution for peace is called european federalism, a united states of europe that opens its doors to turkey, to israel and, in the future, to democratic states that renounce their absolute sovereignty.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the motion for a resolution on the tragic situation in the gaza strip. i fully share the concern that the conflict has not yet come to an end, despite the hopes expressed by the entire international community for a cessation of hostilities. i join my colleagues in expressing my deep regret at the suffering of the civilian population in gaza and believe that the only possible solution, not only in this strip of territory but in the entire holy land, is that of dialogue, negotiation, diplomacy, never war which can only cause an intensification of hatred. the european union can and must play a leading role in this process, both in terms of achieving a ceasefire and in opening the gates for humanitarian purposes. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution and i hope that the efforts for reconciliation will lead as soon as possible to real progress towards peace.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. the situation in the horn of africa continues to be extremely worrying. the web of problems and conflicts requires the eu to be constantly vigilant to avoid dramatic degeneration. i believe, as does my group, that the situation in the horn of africa requires an urgent and comprehensive approach. as i said, the major difficulties arise from the many conflicts between the different countries of the region, so it is absolutely essential to work on the issue of security in its many interconnections, as well as to follow the changes in governments to whom it is recommended to make a real commitment to the issue of improving human rights.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the horn of africa. the delicate situation in the african region requires a firm position from the european institutions: i therefore approve the request to the council for the appointment of an eu special representative or envoy for the horn of africa region. ethiopia, eritrea, somalia and djibouti must cooperate if they are to overcome the current impasse. this is why the eritrean government should reconsider its current suspension of its participation in igad. this is why djibouti should work to ensure better legal protection of trade union rights. this is why ethiopia should revoke its ratification of the proclamation for the registration and regularization of civil organizations and charitable institutions. that is why somalia must end one of the world's worst humanitarian and security crises.
in writing. − it seems that finally, albeit still timidly, the lukashenko regime is sending signals of openness to the international community: we must take this into account and start working immediately on a shared process which will lead to better relations with this country so close to our borders. but we cannot back down an inch on our demands for respect for human rights and guarantees of freedom of expression and information: we are still witnessing the repression of various attempts to peacefully demonstrate democratically. i also call for a greater effort to agree common rules on the sensitive issue of the residence of belarusian minors in our families during the summer months: every year the belarusian government changes its strategy in this area, often creating very difficult situations which have a negative impact, particularly on the children themselves, who are already unfortunate in other ways. the progress made so far is good, but there is still a long way to go. we hope that lukashenko, after many false starts, will want to go through it, at least partly, together.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european union's attitude towards belarus. i am pleased that the belarusian foreign minister has stated that his country intends to participate in the eastern partnership initiative with the other eastern european countries. however, it is necessary that belarus strictly adheres to international safety standards and requirements in the construction of a new nuclear power plant, in accordance with the convention on nuclear safety. finally, i am saddened that belarus remains the only country in europe with the death penalty in force: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. - i vote in favour. srebrenica is a wound which has left a deep scar in european history. survivors today tell how between april 1992 and april 1993 thousands of refugees, in an attempt to escape the incursions of the bosnian serbs, hid in cellars, garages, or even in houses abandoned by the serbs; how they fed on sun roots; how they were infested with fleas; how, frozen in the long winter of 1992, they warmed themselves by burning tires and plastic bottles and how the bodies of those who died from malnutrition and freezing were eaten by dogs. seventeen years after the massacre, hundreds of bodies are still being identified. i therefore believe that the establishment of the commemoration day is an opportunity to remember, to express our closeness to the families of the victims of this absurd massacre and to relaunch our policy more decisively towards a europe of peace, social justice and freedom, as i am sure that respect for equality must pass through the recognition of differences.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for 11 july to be commemorated as the day of remembrance for the victims of the srebrenica massacre. it is still alive in the hearts of all of us, that tragic month of july 1995, when serbian troops led by mladić massacred more than eight thousand bosniaks. the most appropriate way to honour the victims of the atrocities of the war in the former yugoslavia is to establish a day of remembrance to remember what happened. however, more efforts and sacrifices are needed to bring the perpetrators of this genocide (primarily general ratko mladić) to justice: out of respect for the fathers, mothers, children and brothers of the innocent victims who died in those years. out of respect for europe, which wants to live free.
, on behalf of the uen group. mr president, after consulting many colleagues, i ask you to change the agenda as you have said. i therefore ask for the possibility of including the battisti case among the urgent ones. in fact, a few days ago the brazilian government decided to refuse extradition of the terrorist cesare battisti, who was sentenced to life imprisonment for being the material perpetrator of four murders, and to grant this murderer the status of political refugee. this decision, in addition to being an affront to the italian institutions and justice, has offended the memory of the victims and their families and has shocked public opinion. this is the reason for the request which, incidentally, i think should be heard, also because the first appeal comes from the highest italian institutional positions, starting with the president of the republic, napolitano. so that's why you're asking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow - and i am very happy to have it here - the president of the palestinian authority will be here in the formal sitting. on this occasion, the president of this authority is coming to a place in the europe of the homelands which is destroying the european homeland and for which the mediterranean is only good as a grave for the poor and those condemned to hunger and extermination. we are here to represent - look at this hour, it is an hour of nationalist protests, we must do it from all sides, the plague of the europe of the homelands is destroying the european homeland and we have a duty to say this in brussels. the day after tomorrow, a palestinian speaks. the fact that 80% of the israeli people want europe against the government in jerusalem, as the adenauer foundation has shown, also shows that the palestinians, the lebanese, the southern mediterranean, the tunisians, the peoples do not have the right to vote for the revolution either. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can start a little bit, given that these terms have been circulating quite happily these days. we are dealing, madam commissioner, with a strange sort of comparison between the man from doha or the former doha, as we hoped, and the man from davos. i don't think this is an appropriate partition, obviously, but it's interesting. we are now, as you have said, commissioner, dependent to a considerable extent on events which do not originate here: and ford was now also remembering important areas like asean or south korea. but the real problem is how far we are today, how far the commission is, how far the european union is today in a position to resist that outburst of nationalism which was mentioned a moment ago, of autarchic reflexes, of new protectionist illusions, which risks making your work, madam commissioner, and the work of our union very difficult. i think that in this election campaign it will be very important to see how far the pse, the ppe and alde, together with the other parties, can find a way of developing our proposal, the proposal for which you have been the commissioner's spokesman, and how far we can really make it a european proposal and not just a proposal, i would say, for our headquarters in brussels against a series of capitals that are already moving on their own, as has unfortunately happened many times in the last century.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are facing a very serious industrial crisis and european textiles cannot be exempt from this crisis, which is also a result of the financial crisis. it is obvious that the delay in consumption is affecting high-end products in europe, including in my country italy, in a sector which has seen, as the president of the inta commission pointed out, a reduction of 350,000 jobs and 5% of enterprises. but at the moment i believe that more than financial support, this sector, like other industrial sectors, needs rules, needs, as has already been mentioned, genuine reciprocity. while we can understand that there are also attitudes towards emerging countries that are genuinely open to the market in order to encourage the development of those countries and thus new markets, we can much less understand a lack of reciprocity in terms of regulatory barriers, tariff barriers vis-à-vis the more developed countries: the united states, canada, australia, and japan. that is why certain fundamental issues, on which i believe the commitment has been more formal than substantive, such as the 'made in' issue, must be brought back into the focus of the commission's and also the council's attention. europe needs new rules, but it also needs reciprocity, a stronger fight against counterfeiting and piracy, real action on anti-dumping measures and, in fact, the adoption of the regulation on 'made in'. you see, commissioner, if we play a boxing match with one hand and one glove, we cannot win. and again, this is a problem that concerns the united states with us, not just china or india. they have traceability rules, they impose them on our products, which we don't have. so this is a fundamental issue, on which i think the commission's initiative should be developed more strongly than in the past, because we have seen that when it wants to it can also convince the rioters, as it has been in the environmental field. in conclusion, i believe that there are some measures which are expensive and others which are less expensive, and the expensive ones are part of an anti-crisis package which is about to be launched: the commission's proposal is to set up a new fund for the adaptation to globalisation, plus soft loans to encourage investment and strengthen the capital base of small and medium-sized enterprises, plus research funds for the textile technology platform, plus export support for small and medium-sized enterprises. the costly ones are the made-in regulation, the protection of intellectual property, anti-dumping and the fight against counterfeiting. if we can put all these costly and inexpensive measures into practice, i believe we will help europe's economy without altering the rules of competition and without falling into neo-protectionism.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my sincere appreciation of the work of mrs laperrouze, much of which i share. i am, however, puzzled by some aspects, perhaps due to excessive confidence in the commission's assessments. firstly, i think that the expected development of gas demand is reductive. if so, i fear it will have a negative impact on the sources of funding for the projects. infrastructure projects are at different stages of development. rather than re-defining its priorities in the abstract, with a serious shortfall for the mediterranean area, it is appropriate to re-evaluate them in terms of development time, financial structure, available supplies and the ratio between public support and private commitment. the commission has also proposed a diversification of sources and routes of supply. an example is the southern corridor. i believe that a phased programme approach is necessary on these issues. in the case of the caspian, only azerbaijani gas will be available in the first phase; access to other countries will occur in the second phase, but making the market more complex for political, regulatory and infrastructural reasons. the commission proposal for caspian development cooperation can help to overcome these problems if it is intended, among other things, to facilitate the development of the missing infrastructure. as a penultimate aspect, there is no doubt that solidarity mechanisms are fundamental to the union's energy policies, also in relation to the lisbon treaty. the feasibility of such measures should, however, avoid distortions and excessive costs. finally, the external reports: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european energy charter.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the excellent cooperation which has enabled us to draw up a very satisfactory text. i would also like to thank all the ngos and institutions which have followed our work closely and have enriched the report with valuable suggestions. two main objectives have been pursued in our work. first of all: closely monitor the state of implementation of the 2003 framework decision within the 27 member states. the second objective was to propose necessary improvements. the framework decision needs to be updated to raise the threshold for the protection of minors, taking into account the spread of new and worrying exploitation phenomena, also linked to new technologies. the fight against sex tourism is one of our priorities. this is a worryingly growing phenomenon, linked also to the fall in travel costs. in this context, it is necessary to improve extraterritorial cooperation and to ask the member states to exclude the principle of double criminalization for crimes related to the exploitation and abuse of children. secondly: it is necessary that grooming, i.e. psychological manipulation of a child online for sexual purposes, should be considered a criminal offence in all member states. thirdly: we need to bind member states to the obligation to exchange information contained in criminal records relating to final convictions for sexual abuse offences. the aim is to exclude the possibility of sexual abusers from working in a profession which involves contact with minors. among the proposals to be implemented as soon as possible is the launch of the rapid alert system for missing children. it is a system which has already been tried and tested, and which has already been put into practice, albeit by a small number of member states and therefore only on an experimental basis, but which has achieved excellent results. and so there is a need to make it operational in all 27 member states. it is worth remembering that every year thousands and thousands of children are lost in europe. i would like to stress one more point. in general, national legislation should aim to improve the protection of child victims during investigations and before and after any trial involving children. this is precisely to prevent children from becoming victims twice, first of violence and then of media or judicial violence. finally, we have pointed out the urgency of giving specific criminal significance to forced marriages, which in most cases involve minors. in conclusion, mr president, i think it is important to call on all member states to ratify as soon as possible the latest council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and abuse. the convention of october 2007 is the most innovative and up-to-date reference point in terms of child protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, paedophile organizations are a threat to the people and must therefore be treated as mafia or terrorist organizations with special and aggravating laws. it's a scandal that there have been thousands of people accused of child pornography who haven't served a day in prison. i would also like to remind the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, whose work we all appreciated, that in her town last year there was a trial called "lotus flower" involving 200 roma children. these roma children have, after the trial, practically disappeared; it is not known whether they actually returned to the same camps where the abuses were organized. so, we need vigilance by all the states, special laws, and this scandal, this horrible threat to society, must be dealt with with special laws and very tough laws.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sexual exploitation of children is a tragic problem. it's a disgrace to the modern world, a very serious sign of our decadence. the rapid expansion of the internet and the new sophisticated technologies that are accessible to all children, without any limits, without rules, without controls and without sanctions, has given rise to a great deal of acceleration in recent times, and these technologies are being imposed with ever greater urgency, effectiveness and exemplaryness. the excellent report by mrs angelilli, which i warmly welcome, and the precise recommendations that parliament is making to the commission indicate and suggest measures that can put a serious stop to the spread of child pornography, online child abuse, sex tourism and all forms of child abuse. recent disturbing data, not least a un study on violence against children, indicate that the sexual exploitation of children is on the rise and that, together with human trafficking, it is becoming one of the largest sources of profit and one of the fastest growing transnational crimes, with a turnover of about 10 billion dollars a year. according to an estimate by the international labour organization, over 12 million people are victims of forced labour and of these over one million are engaged in sexual exploitation and 45-50% are children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a parliament recommendation to the council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and, more generally, child pornography is moving in the direction of the clear development of new telecommunications technologies. the forms of online grooming of minors have certainly increased, but i also take this opportunity to denounce the exploitation of the image of women, which in many eu countries disseminates an often undignified image of femininity, where the commercial objective is pursued not only with vulgarity but with a real disregard for women's dignity, not to mention the subliminal use of advertising but also of television programmes - especially in my own country, i must say. i agree with the rapporteur that council framework decision 2004/68 needs to be updated to raise the threshold for the protection of minors and, more generally, the fight against sexual exploitation. it is also our duty to ensure that the council of europe convention is ratified, but there is more to it than that. we need to consider online child abuse as a crime and push for cross-border cooperation on the matter. i believe that member states should be obliged to exchange information contained in criminal records relating to convictions for sexual abuse offences. i would remind you that the ecris system is certainly a step forward in this respect, in order to prevent the perpetrator of certain offences from having contact with a child and thus to improve the protection of victims during the investigation, but also after the trial. i would like to conclude by recalling that child exploitation is not just sexual abuse, and i would like to see our institutions make a greater effort in this regard.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues again for the reflections and support which have emerged in the debate and, in conclusion, i would like to thank the european commission in particular for its effective cooperation. i am grateful to commissioner barrot for his extraordinary report, because this morning he again showed a very strong political and legislative will on the protection of children. it has given us a lot to think about and, above all, a lot to do. i'm taking this opportunity to do some additional thinking. first of all, there is a lack of data. all too often there is a lack of adequate data, statistics, which are indispensable as a basis for work to better monitor and to better understand, and of course also to better deal with, child abuse. this lack of data is - how to say - a question that is often raised, but i think it is important to emphasize it because it is a lack that we must fill. on data protection, some colleagues have raised this issue and the commissioner has already given a very timely reply. i want to emphasize that i am very sensitive to data protection and i believe that there is no conflict between privacy and children's rights, of course if the institutions do their part and if everyone, from providers to police authorities, follows the rules. i would like to stress that the first to need privacy and data protection are children. the commissioner barrot also raised this problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are protected, and that the rights of children are protected, and that the rights of children are protected. i would also like to add that if no child is safe from danger, unaccompanied minors and roma children are often even more vulnerable. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that a major effort must certainly be made at cultural and political level, that the effort must be made by families, schools and the media. we can do a lot in terms of self-regulation, but without binding and effective legislative instruments, of course, we cannot combat exploitation, which is not only the work of individuals but often of criminal organizations.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, four minutes will suffice to sum up two years of work, laborious but i believe useful work, which has seen parliament, the commission with its proposal and the council, work which has the merit of proposing, for the first time with this directive, sanctions for employers who exploit the work of illegal immigrants. i think we have succeeded in reversing some of the logic behind this directive, which was limited to the fight against illegal immigration. the compromise text with the council also provides protection for those immigrants who are forced to work underground, often as hostages of mafia crime. the risk, madam president, of otherwise being punished twice, as exploited workers, often forced to accept unfair working conditions, and as irregular workers, forced to be repatriated, with a ban on repatriation which, in many countries, means years and years. in this connection, we have provided in articles 7 and 14 that in cases involving minors, cases of serious exploitation and trafficking in human beings, member states must provide for rules for the issue of temporary residence permits, the duration of which may be extended until the arrears are paid. we would have liked to have extended this possibility to all illegal immigrants, but we are prevented from doing so by the return directive, which was adopted last year and the speaker is not one of those who supported it. we have, however, succeeded in introducing a rule which allows member states to apply more favourable measures to immigrants in the matter of issuing residence permits. article 10 - i believe it is the key article - imposes for the first time penal sanctions in the most serious cases, including the case where regular workers are minors. the secondary sanctions provided for in article 8 are important, i think: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we have succeeded, and i think it is fundamental, in introducing the definition of wages which equates the wage due to an irregular migrant to the wage of a regular worker, without any discrimination. we have included in the scope of the directive temporary agencies which, especially in some countries, including my own, are the organizations most easily engaged in recruiting illegal labour in conditions of absolute and extreme exploitation. think of the cases of corporal's murder that have long been covered in the black press. we have asked and gotten unions to represent immigrants in administrative and civil cases. the text used to refer to third parties in general terms, but now it refers to trade unions. a period of inquiry is needed, and that is why we have asked the commission, three years after the directive enters into force, to report to parliament and the council specifically on the rules concerning inspections, residence permits, penalties and subcontracting. the rapporteur would like to extend responsibility to the whole procurement chain as originally envisaged by the commission. the council and parliament, and partly part of parliament, were about to exclude subcontracting altogether; we have come to a compromise solution which i think is useful: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why i will ask the council tomorrow, also on behalf of the other shadows, whom i thank for their cooperation over the years, to add to the text of the compromise we are going to vote a statement that the provisions of article 9 do not prejudice future legislative measures on subcontracting. in conclusion, madam president, i believe that this directive speaks to us of a europe in which immigration finally becomes a matter of collective responsibility and recognized rights, not just of rules against immigrants.
the commission has said that there are between 4.5 and 8 million non-eu citizens in europe who are in an irregular situation. it's a completely irrelevant phenomenon. the european union is a global economy. it's obviously an over-amplified phenomenon. these are workers who provide useful services, personal services, work in the tourism sector and are absorbed in the vast majority of cases by the labour market. they are workers who are useful to our economy, but they are exploited workers, exploited to lower the cost of labour, to enrich unscrupulous employers, they are workers who often perform activities which are not covered by the citizens of the european union. we need these people, but these people have entered irregularly for a simple reason, because there is no way in europe to enter regularly, as there is for the vast majority of citizens who are now in regular status and who entered the european union irregularly. we need another measure, a measure to regularize these millions of people, a measure to free them from slavery, from blackmail, from exploitation. instead, we are dealing with a directive which marks the continuation of the return directive. we have decided on the method of expulsion, and today we are deciding on the potential pool of expulsions and also on who is paying for the expulsions. the exploited under this directive pay more than the exploiter. unfortunately, there is no provision for a general regularization measure for those who denounce their status, for those who denounce the exploiter, for those who denounce the crime that is being committed. you go from blackmailing a black job straight to expulsion. we needed something else, we needed a measure that would promote legality, not the criminalization of those who are currently in a state of irregularity. we needed a measure to stem xenophobia. the italian minister for the interior said yesterday that "we must be bad with illegal immigrants", that we must be bad with those who are in a vulnerable situation. i believe that this directive is encouraging these xenophobic attitudes. we in the european union need migrants says the commission: 50 million by 2060 because we are in the midst of a demographic crisis, but we are doing nothing to bring them in, we are harmonizing the system of expulsions and today we are deciding to expel those who are in an irregular situation despite being a worker absorbed by the european labour market. i believe that the effects of this directive will be devastating because they will serve to increase the clandestinity of migrants, the flooding of the labour market and will increase the blackmailing crimes of unscrupulous employers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, compromises - as we know very well in this house - must be analysed by breaking down the benefits and risks and arriving at an overall assessment which takes account of the constraints and the regulatory and political context. as regards the scope of work which many people have in the directive to be voted on tomorrow, there is a broadly positive view. the inclusion of a concept of remuneration in the definitions which allows comparability with the legal employment relationship is a positive one. the reduction in the procedural burden of penalties for domestic and care work; the commission has also adopted a communication on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. the commission has also made a number of important commitments to the effect that the subcontracting provision will not be regarded as a precedent. doubts remain about the responsibility in the chain of employers and the difficulty for workers to receive what they are owed before being removed from the country. the problem is not all gloomy, but the directive, which is closely linked and binding to the return directive, has its hands tied with regard to the situation of irregular workers and employers who have not been able to find legal paths to employment. the confidence in the decision to agree a text at first reading is not diminished by the fact that some risks have been pointed out: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this is a particularly sensitive time to be dealing with this subject. the international economic crisis has led countries which are mainly in crisis to use, or are using, black labour and almost mainly illegal nationals, especially in certain sectors, such as construction, agriculture and others, favouring - and it is no coincidence that illegal immigration is increasing enormously, we are dealing in this house this afternoon and tomorrow with the problems of lampedusa or other border countries - illegal immigration, with the tragedies we are experiencing. then this measure comes at an absolutely opportune time. but i think that the sanctions for employers will certainly discourage them even more, because black labour is already sanctioned, but even more so illegal labour, and will discourage employers from hiring staff. we heard there are 8 million illegal citizens working underground; we have to assume that once these measures come into force we will have 8 million illegal immigrants on the street that we have to deal with. i think this is a problem we must start to address, because otherwise those who survive in illegality, but do survive, will be officially declared illegal by their employers who will no longer be able to accommodate them and we will have a great drama of 8 million citizens in europe that we must expel, assist. i think that this is a matter which should be tackled in a preventive manner - and i conclude that time is running out - and the problem of temporary employment, especially in agriculture, of workers should be clarified and their introduction and recruitment should be facilitated from a bureaucratic point of view.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i think that this very interesting debate - i thank all the speakers - has shown that there is still a very broad agreement in parliament on the need to target employers who use irregular workers, very often by exploiting them. i would remind parliament that the commission's impact assessment has shown that the current sanctions have not been sufficient to ensure compliance with the rules. the directive has improved this situation by obliging member states to introduce similar sanctions and to ensure their effective enforcement. at the beginning of this sitting i also stressed that the commission will ensure that the inspections which the member states have to carry out are carried out. i would like to thank mr fava and parliament again for having made this compromise possible, which seems to me to be a very good first step. i would also like to point out that this directive is part of the european union's common immigration policy. of course, illegal immigration and human trafficking must be combated, that is today's text, but we must also value the benefits of legal immigration. in addition to the two proposals presented in october 2007 on highly skilled migrant workers (the blue card) and on the rights of migrants (the single permit), the commission will present in spring 2009 three further proposals for a directive on legal immigration, which aim to establish common rules for seasonal workers, who are generally less skilled, intra-corporate transferees and paid trainees. i would add that the commission, in keeping with its commitment to the european parliament, will, in the context of the preparation and implementation of the stockholm programme, consider the possible need to legislate with regard to other categories of migrant workers. i think it was necessary to place this proposal for a directive in the general context of the pact on immigration and asylum. i have been very careful to remind him of this in parliament, showing him that what he has asked for will be followed by effect. thank you for the quality of this debate.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commissioner's suggestions and wishes. i think that this parliament has said it very clearly, not just today: the european union must also be able to take action to combat illegal immigration, and this must be done in a way that is consistent with the principles of the european union. we are behind in this respect and we are of course sorry that the treaties do not allow this parliament to take up a co-decision power with the council on legal immigration. the legal basis which today forces us to speak only of rules which combat immigration is also regrettable to the rapporteur, but it is the legal basis which we must adhere to. that said, i believe that our report today has introduced articles which actually protect the rights of foreign workers, even if they are illegal immigrants. i am thinking of temporary residence permits for minors, for those who have been exploited. i think about the salary: finally, it is expressly stated that the salary cannot be lower than that which is legally recognized for all other european citizens. i am thinking of the role of the trade unions, which for the first time expressly guarantee and represent foreign workers, even if they are not registered, in administrative and civil proceedings. i believe that all these reasons allow us to speak of rights being recovered, of a step forward and not a step back, of a directive which tackles a difficult, delicate subject, but with a sense of balance to which this parliament is particularly attentive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 february 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the niebler report on the extension of the ec-us agreement on scientific and technological cooperation. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation entered into force just over 10 years ago and has already been renewed once, after the first 5 years. i fully agree that a further extension of the contract is necessary to continue to foster scientific and technological cooperation with the united states of america in common priority areas that bring socioeconomic benefits to both parties. i am also satisfied that the terms of the agreement are almost identical to those previously concluded, except for a few technical changes. finally, i welcome the addition of space research and the security sector to the ec-us agreement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs niebler on the renewal of the eu-russia scientific cooperation agreement. it is essential to renew the agreement concluded years ago with the soviet government. cooperation between the european union and russia has indeed produced excellent results, and this is due to the fact that the forces have joined forces in order to achieve the sole objective of improving the general welfare. i therefore welcome the initiative taken by mrs niebler and stress the importance of continuity and consistency of diplomatic relations between the two countries in order to ensure international geopolitical balances.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. there are several reasons why europe should be interested in protected nature areas. first, because they serve as a refuge and genetic reserve for many species that cannot survive in even slightly altered conditions. there are also many species that have not yet been discovered and described. most of them live in the soil or in damp wood and are very sensitive to changes. these pristine areas are ideal for examining natural changes, the evolution of nature. at the same time, these areas are extremely vulnerable to the impacts of man-made climate change outside their borders. there are also many purely ethical reasons for preserving nature reserves in europe. we have a moral obligation to ensure that future generations can enjoy and benefit from the protected nature areas that exist in europe. the development of sustainable tourism is used as a means of assigning economic value to protected nature areas and promoting their conservation. it is therefore important to make appropriate recommendations to help eu member states find the best way to ensure the safeguarding of existing and potential protected nature areas and wild areas and their natural processes within the framework of natura 2000.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the hegyi report on natural areas in europe. i believe that the european union should take a greater interest in protected nature areas, because they serve as a refuge and reserve for many species that cannot survive in altered conditions. moreover, the ethical reasons for this choice should not be overlooked. we have a moral obligation as european citizens to ensure that future generations can benefit from the protected nature areas that exist in europe. i therefore welcome the initiative of my colleague to promote the development of sustainable tourism, which is a true indicator of the economic value of a protected nature area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr queirò on the agenda for a sustainable future in general and business aviation. the need to establish a new european policy on general and business aviation is felt. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2014 and that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2014. in fact, it is estimated that the number of passengers in business aviation could double in the next decade. moreover, the benefits that this type of aviation brings to the economic and social well-being as a whole must also be recognised. i therefore support the report by my colleague and hope that the potential of a sector which is growing rapidly will be properly exploited in the future.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. i vote in favour. i believe that pre-commercial procurement has the potential to be a major driver of innovation and to deliver up-to-date and high quality public services in the european union. not only that. pre-commercial procurement offers great opportunities for smes, both in the public procurement sector and in terms of their development and overall experience. they are automatically more accessible to smes than traditional large commercial contracts. however, i fear that it will fail to attract small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) if it is not clear how such contracts will work, especially in a cross-border context, and if further clarification is not provided on certain aspects of the procedure, including state aid provisions and intellectual property, in order to create a transparent and stable environment for public authorities and businesses.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr harbour on the promotion of innovation in pre-commercial procurement to ensure sustainable and high-quality public services in europe. it is of paramount importance that the european union addresses social challenges adequately so that it can ensure significant improvements in the provision of public services. the pre-commercial procurement instrument can therefore help to bridge the gap between supply and demand in this sector. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to train contracting authorities on how to deal with innovation in public procurement, because the profession is highly qualified and needs well-trained staff.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. i believe that renewable energy, such as wind, solar, hydropower or geothermal energy, biomass and marine resources, is the most important potential source of energy in the european union. these can help to stabilise energy prices and to contain the increase in energy dependence. it is therefore essential to define a european energy policy that allows a massive conversion to energy-efficient and low-carbon technologies in order to meet energy needs. if energy efficiency and energy saving continue to be a priority, as well as the pursuit of the development of renewable energy, i agree that by 2050 it will be possible to meet energy needs using low-emission sources. i also share the importance of a systematic approach based on synergies between the different sectors. finally, the long-term energy and climate challenges at global and european level are a tremendous opportunity to encourage new business models in all economic sectors in order to boost environmentally friendly innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i have greatly appreciated the work of mrs laperrouze and therefore voted in favour of her acceptance. i only hope that the points and indications which your colleague has made in her report will be properly assessed by the commission and interpreted in the most positive and broadest possible way. i hope, therefore, that there will be no obstacles to the speedier definition of infrastructure projects by assessing them for the purposes of priorities only in terms of development time, financial structure, available supplies and the ratio between public support and private commitment. in this connection, the presentation of the commission's proposals on the european recovery plan, with a plan for financial support for certain projects, lacks attention to the mediterranean area, with the exclusion, among the projects of highest european priority, of the galsi project from algeria to italy (even for the internal section only). i still hope that the diversification of sources and supply routes will be gradually advanced, bringing new opportunities along with the launching of infrastructure, if any, which is lacking. i hope that solidarity mechanisms will not allow for market distortions or lead to overly burdensome processes. i hope that the energy charter can play a key role in the enlargement of the energy community, particularly to the transit countries, also in the field of renewable energies.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs laperrouze on the second strategic review of energy policy. i agree with the need to provide a real basis for a future european energy policy, aimed at pursuing the objectives of security of supply, combating climate change and economic growth in the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to establish a european fund to guarantee the non-commercial risks of certain energy production and transmission projects of european interest, in order to encourage investment in all networks.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs záborská on solidarity between the generations. i think that the concept of 'work' currently used by the european union does not adequately cover all categories. the discrimination against women or men who freely choose to help people who are not self-sufficient or to train the human capacities of future generations is now anachronistic and outdated. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when she says that there is an urgent need to make the concept of work sustainable and to recognise unpaid work by women and men as a means of solidarity between generations.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. i am very concerned that child pornography on the internet is a phenomenon which is spreading in an increasing way and, in particular, this phenomenon involves younger and younger children. the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography constitute a very serious violation of human rights. i therefore believe it is important to step up, in the framework of international cooperation, the efforts to filter and close down websites containing child pornography, so that companies providing internet access are obliged to block such criminal sites. however, while member states' laws ensure sanctions and a fairly high level of protection against the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography, the threshold for the protection of minors needs to be increased, also in view of the continuing development of new technologies, in particular the internet, and the use of new forms of online grooming of children for sexual purposes (so-called grooming) by paedophiles. finally, awareness campaigns for parents and adolescents about the dangers of child pornography on the internet and especially about the risk of sexual exploitation in chat rooms and forums need to be developed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs angelilli on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the condemnation of these practices is not enough to eradicate this very serious violation of human rights. however, it is of concern that not all member states have complied with the requirements of council framework decision 2004/68/jha of 22 december 2003. that decision needs to be updated in order to increase the threshold for the protection of children, also in view of the continuous development of new technologies, in particular the internet, and the use of new forms of online grooming of children for sexual purposes (so-called grooming) by paedophiles. i fully agree with the rapporteur, who has presented a timely, proactive report, marked by an excellent technical knowledge of the issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by closing guantanamo, we are correcting a vulnus which has mortifyed international law and, above all, has not served the fight against terrorism. today, however, it is not enough to welcome obama's choice. this is a time of responsibility, and responsibility also involves europe and the member states. guantanamo is also the result of europe's silence and the cooperation of many of our governments with the system of renditions. in recent years, our governments have said that guantanamo should be closed, but they have also sent police officers to interrogate the detainees. we are talking about liability that was denied when this parliament investigated, but which has been admitted and established over the last two years. february 2008: london apologizes for the cia flights; the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the mediterranean area. december 2008: aznar's spanish government knew that many cia flights had flown over spain and used spanish airports. this came out of a secret document that turns out to be true, which was published by el país. the foreign minister at the time, josep piquè, who acknowledges the use of spanish airports, says he did not know what would happen next in guantanamo, perhaps imagining it was an amusement park. in october 2008, we learn that in portugal, foreign minister amado admits that the former centre-right government led by mr barroso knew about and made available portuguese airports and skies for illegal cia flights. minister amado says: "i did not mention it because i did not want to disturb the peace of the european institutions". we ask ourselves: and the public's right to know? or we must imagine that even prime minister barroso did not know what a place of civil and legal indecency guantanamo was in those years, and has been until today. and that is the point, mr president, and i will conclude: we have shown a great deal of goodwill and hypocrisy in these years, including in the words that the council has failed to use in these years. two years ago parliament made 46 recommendations to the council. we would have expected that at least some of these recommendations would have been given due consideration, due attention, that at least some of the recommendations would have finally been answered today. so we believe that helping to close guantanamo and taking our collective responsibility as europe and the 27 member states that make it up is also helping, at the very least, to redeem ourselves for our silences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the opportunity for european countries to accept guantanamo prisoners is now recognized, a concept which was strangely absent from my group's original resolution and on which i fully agree with presidents schulz and watson. the first point of the resolution refers to major changes in us policy with regard to humanitarian law. well, i see some change, certainly in tone, but also a lot of continuity with the "hated" bush policy, since obama has not abandoned the program of extraordinary renditions and cia prisons in foreign territory. i say this to the czech presidency, which seems to have a different idea. i wouldn't want obama enthusiasts to suffer any disappointment anytime soon. the anti-american propaganda, already so active in the cia committee two years ago, returns in the oral question on cia flights in europe. i'll give you one example. in a recital, the existence of a secret cia facility in poland is denounced. now, the fact that there is a cia facility in a country like poland should not cause a scandal - it would be strange if the opposite were true - but i think that the signatories of the question are bothered that this facility is secret, they would always want the secret services to act without secrecy, in the open, and that cia planes have "cia" written on their wings like british airways or air france. i 'm afraid they 'll be disappointed here , too . obama won't get to that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states created the guantanamo problem, a us president is preparing to solve it, we need to know whether the european union will have any strength and capacity to play a role. the european union must cooperate. our member states must take in prisoners, such as the uyghur prisoners, without submitting to pressure from china. if we do not do this, we risk being irrelevant even in the closure of guantanamo. it can be the beginning of a new work to bring out the truth, the responsibilities of our national governments - the portuguese government, for example, when it was president barroso - our responsibilities in relation to the fact that the proposal for the exile of saddam hussein was dropped, a proposal which was the only alternative to war and which our governments, together with that of the united states, dropped.
i would inform you that, in accordance with rule 103 (3) of the rules of procedure, i have received three motions for resolutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals for the council to amend the treaty on european union, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote on guantanamo will take place on wednesday 4 february 2009, while the vote on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of people will take place during the next part-session.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the worrying situation in reception centres for immigrants, particularly on the islands of mayotte and lampedusa.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to address you on the issue of the situation in the immigration and detention centres situated in the european union, of which you have highlighted two in particular, i.e. mayotte and lampedusa. i am very aware of the close interest you have shown in these centres, of the various visits which some of you have made, and of the concerns you have expressed about the conditions in some of them. i should like to begin by underlining two fundamental principles which lie at the heart of today’s debate. the first is the need, in the case of third-country nationals requiring international protection, for full compliance with the commitments which we have given, as enshrined in various international instruments. the second is that we respect fully the human rights and the dignity of migrants and members of their families. we are all very aware of the pressure from migrants into the european union, as well as those seeking asylum here. this pressure is particularly great along the union’s southern and eastern borders. we have responded by developing, over the last 10 years, an effective eu asylum and migration policy. but the significant increase in the level of arrivals underlines the need for this policy to be strengthened and further developed. we need to do this internally in order to establish our own common standards and rules in the area of asylum and migration. but we also need to act externally, in partnership with countries of origin and transit, in order to manage migration flows more efficiently. all parties stand to gain by such an approach. the development and shaping of an eu asylum and migration policy depends on your input too. i am grateful to parliament for its positive contribution and i am sure that we can work constructively on further developing this important policy area. you have specifically raised the situation on the islands of mayotte and lampedusa. we should take care to distinguish between the two types of migratory flows in these two cases. the migratory flows affecting lampedusa and mayotte can be characterised as mixed ones: some of the third-country nationals concerned have claimed international protection, others certainly fall into the category of economic immigrants. regarding the first category – those who claim international protection – i would draw your attention to the existence of minimum standards for the protection of asylum seekers, set out in directive 2003/9/ec, which was adopted in 2003. this directive has already been transposed into the national law of the member states and it is for the commission to ensure that the provisions set out in this directive are properly and fully applied. in december 2008, the commission presented to the european parliament and to the council a proposal to amend and update this directive. since the codecision procedure applies here, the european parliament will be fully involved in the negotiations on this new proposal. the council will shortly begin consideration of this new proposal and looks forward to working closely with you. honourable members will be aware that, in the specific case of the french overseas territory of mayotte, community law does not apply. with regard to the second category – other third-country nationals who have unlawfully entered the territory of a member state – the competent authorities of the member states are entitled to detain those falling in this category prior to the adoption of a return decision, and/or with a view to facilitating its enforcement. detention may prove to be the only option in cases where it is necessary to seek identification of third-country nationals without travel documents. until now, the legislation and practice regarding detention in the member states has varied considerably. the recently adopted european parliament and council directive on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals has introduced specific principles and rules on detention, and so goes some way to establishing a common legal framework in this area. this directive clearly states that detention for the purposes of removal may be used only where less coercive measures cannot be applied in a particular case and only on specific, very limited grounds. furthermore, the directive provides that detention shall be for as short a period as possible, shall require a decision in writing with reasons in fact and law, and shall be subject to judicial review at regular intervals. it should also be stressed that the directive provides for clear upper limits of detention and the grounds on which – in limited specific cases – a detention period may be prolonged, but not longer than a maximum term. on the conditions of detention, the directive makes clear that detention shall take place as a rule in specialised detention facilities – or, in any case, away from ordinary prisoners – and that the rights of the detainees – especially those of vulnerable status including minors and families – shall be observed. as far as the return of illegal immigrants is concerned, the recently adopted european parliament and council directive on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals is already in force. its provisions now have to be transposed by member states into their national law within a deadline of two years. this overall legal framework underlines our strong commitment to ensuring that third-country nationals who are held in detention for the purpose of removal are treated in a humane and dignified manner, and that their fundamental rights are fully respected. it also, through the most recent legislation, sets commonly agreed standards on return policy. this framework is not only in line with the principles i set out at the beginning of my statement, but actually gives them legal force. our asylum and migration policy is thus rooted in the rule of law. it ensures respect for human rights and for the dignity of the individual.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, as the president-in-office of the council, mr vondra, has just said, we now have a legal framework which is beginning to take hold. the first step is the return directive, which is the first horizontal act to harmonise the standards in the member states on return. it introduces into community law the applicable provisions of the european convention on human rights and its implementation will allow the application of community control mechanisms to monitor compliance with the acquis. i am well aware that this directive may have been considered by some of you at times as insufficient. it is nevertheless a means of community control which allows us to check that the acquis is being respected. of course, by monitoring its implementation - i remind you that the transposition period is until 24 december 2010 - the commission will ensure that the fundamental principles of respect for the rights of migrants are strictly observed and will assess, in particular, the impact of the detention provisions. i myself have said that i would be following the transposition closely so that some member states do not use it as a pretext for extending the period of detention they currently observe. others, for whom detention was indefinite, will be required to comply with the time limit laid down in the directive. the second text we will be using is the one adopted by the college on 3 december 2008 on the reception conditions for asylum seekers. i hope, mr president, that the libe committee will be able to examine this text in the near future, which will allow us to make progress in this new asylum policy. i would remind you that this text contains clear rules on detention, in full compliance with fundamental rights, and limits detention to exceptional cases - this is the case for asylum seekers, we agree. secondly, it better takes into account the needs of vulnerable asylum seekers and it will also facilitate access to the labour market for asylum seekers. so we now have a legal framework and we obviously need to use it. i now come to the questions which parliament has sought to raise in this debate. the commission is aware of the difficult situation facing the italian authorities due to the massive arrivals of irregular migrants and asylum seekers on the southern coasts of the country, in particular in lampedusa. so far italy has managed to grant access to its territory, saving the lives of many migrants and establishing a procedure to process asylum applications under good conditions. the commission notes that italy has acknowledged the need for international protection in half of the individual cases, which further demonstrates that these flows include both asylum seekers and, of course, irregular immigrants. for several years now, the commission has been providing financial resources, in particular to support certain member states, including italy. this was the case with the præsidium project or the emergency measures of the european refugee fund. and a few weeks ago the commission approved emergency aid of €7 million. if italy deems it necessary, the commission is ready to consider a new request for emergency assistance under the 2009 budget in order to improve reception facilities both in lampedusa and in sicily and on the mainland, and thus to strengthen the capacity of the italian authorities to examine the individual situations of migrants in good conditions. i myself will be going to lampedusa very soon, as i will also be going to malta, to look at the situation there. i am also very aware that one of the keys to the solution lies in establishing a strong framework of cooperation with libya, the main transit country on east african migration routes. and i support the efforts of my colleague, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, to achieve a rapid result in the current negotiations. it is one of the keys, and without this negotiation and its outcome it will be very difficult to deal with all the problems that have arisen. i'm going to mayotte. the return directive contains specific rules on detention conditions, with particular emphasis on minors and families, but these community rules do not apply to the territory of mayotte for the time being. the european union recognises the territory of mayotte as french but with the status of an overseas country and territory, not as an outermost region. so private law does not apply, but it is a fact that france must take account of the indications and requests of the council of europe and i believe that the french authorities are considering other conditions for reception in mayotte. it is true, however, that european law is not directly applicable, because union law is not directly applicable in a territory which is not an outermost region. these are the few indications i wanted to give when i told you and reiterated to parliament how much i am concerned about the reception conditions of irregular immigrants, and a fortiori asylum seekers, and how much they are a priority for me. that is why i am going to make these trips to see how things are going in the field. i am grateful to parliament for having opened this debate.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'to combat illegal immigration, we must be mean. immigrants come because it's easy to get here and no one is chasing them, but that's why we decided to change the music": these are the words of the italian minister of the interior, maroni. it seems like a parody of politics, but it's the policy of the italian government. it seems to me clear that there is a deep contempt for what we are discussing here and for the rules that the european union sets for itself. today we talked about closing guantanamo. i think we must urgently discuss the closure of lampedusa, the lampedusa prison as it has been imagined in recent months, that is, with an open-air prison. the presidency rightly recalled the legal framework also adopted by vice-president barrot - cases of coercion as exceptional cases, detention only in absolutely justified cases, of certainly short duration - a legal framework which is substantially and formally violated every day in lampedusa. most of those on lampedusa are asylum seekers. recalls that the council adopted a directive in 2003 on minimum standards for asylum seekers; is a substantial and formal breach of the rules. we often have 180 days of imprisonment even for those fleeing political persecution, even for those fleeing war. all this is of course an act of judicial incivility, which, moreover, is measured by the figures which the record gives us. in 2008, 1,200 people died trying to cross the mediterranean. of those that managed to survive, many passed through the lampedusa strait. so, mr vice-president, i invite you to go to lampedusa, as you yourself have promised us, to go there soon, and if i may suggest to you that you announce at the last moment that you are going to lampedusa, otherwise they will make you find the cpt. polished like a ballroom and make you imagine that this is the place of detention we are talking about this evening.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that for electoral reasons mr fava is forced to say a number of things that are not true. he'll answer to his conscience after the campaign. however, he was so concerned about the problem of lampedusa that he has already left the chamber, a chamber which should be grateful for the generosity of the citizens of lampedusa in welcoming him over the years. we must emphasize the union's delays in solving many problems related to illegal immigration and in providing support and aid to countries with external borders at risk. some countries have not shown the welcome given by italy to thousands of desperate people who were in danger of drowning at sea because of human traffickers and the inertia of many non-european governments who have not respected and signed agreements to control illegal immigration. we are asking for specific and direct economic aid for the populations of the external border areas, which are more geographically exposed to the arrival of illegal immigrants, including through the construction of free zones which lead to an investment of resources and tax relief which cannot be counted under the stability pact agreements.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barrot, it is clear from your speeches that community international law is being violated on a daily basis in lampedusa. but your statements are merely wishful thinking and will not be followed by action, and i am afraid that they are mainly yours, mr president-in-office. i wonder if the european union really has no means of stopping this situation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected. the european union is the only one, and commissioner barrot knows this very well, that can bring italy and the other countries out of this situation. that is why, commissioner, i am extremely concerned about the announcement of new money for italy without conditions. how will it be spent? is the commissioner aware that the much-criticized monitoring action on the roma filing laws last year will receive funding from europe? it's something that's contained in your press releases. so, what kind of confidence can this kind of action have?
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the united states. because the lampedusa emergency, the so-called lampedusa emergency, which has now lasted for ten years - and therefore continue to call it an emergency - seems to me a bit pleonastic - was wanted and created by the italian government. in fact, minister maroni has decided not to allow any more migrants to leave lampedusa. and the temporary detention center had as many as 1,800 people who were locked up in there without the government arranging for a transfer of these people, held in inhuman and degrading conditions, so that the center exploded into a real democratic emergency. so i think this is the real emergency of lampedusa, and that is to want to make a sort of free zone of law, that is to say a place where migrants enter and are expelled without their cases being analysed case by case. the united nations high commissioner for refugees says that as many as 75 percent of people who enter italy by sea, they access the right of asylum, they ask for the right of asylum. if the procedures of minister maroni were valid, they would probably not be able to access the right of asylum, since they are immediately expelled from lampedusa, as the italian government wants to do. then there is a real emergency and the cause of this emergency is the policy of the italian government. the citizens of lampedusa have noticed this, mr muscardini. in fact, they went on a general strike against the government, against the immigration policy, to prevent the opening of the centre which provides for immediate expulsion from that place - the identification and expulsion centre - and they also demanded that the italian government change its position on the temporary residence centre. commissioner barrot is doing well, and i appreciate his efforts, and he will be going to lampedusa in the next few days. i have prepared a dossier and handed it over to commissioner barrot. my group will also be organising a delegation to lampedusa in the coming days.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not surprised by anything in this house. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it was. i am sorry that he is not here in the chamber, but it would be interesting to know how many votes he gets in his town and how many votes he represents. however, mr president, some ignorant nonsense has been said on this occasion. i hope and believe that commissioner barrot will soon visit malta, lampedusa and so on and realise how guilty he is of the european union's lack of a community policy on this matter. the commission's proposal is not a new one. there is no community policy. so what's the result? that some ignorant fool then dares to attack what are instead the dramatic realities that citizens, people and above all national governments live. some numbers i think are important to say and give: in 2007, some 11,000 migrants arrived in lampedusa, in 2008 three times as many, about 31,000. asylum seekers are not numbers, asylum seekers are a tenth of them. the european union has also been a major donor to the united nations. 76 applications were examined in three days, of these 76 asylum applications, 36 were successful, 3 were suspended, the rest ... . i'm almost finished, president. after the allegations that have been made, be patient. then, monica, you can answer whenever, wherever, and under whatever circumstances you want, no problem. so, what matters is the actual data: lampedusa and malta, as well as others, are under tremendous pressure. the citizens are not angry with the italian government, they are angry with the fact that they can no longer live with these realities. so this parliament, rather than accusing the legitimate authorities who are doing their best, should instead try to get this european union to do its duty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you are a man of great sense, and i invite you, and i join other members in this, to go to lampedusa and, please, without warning, to see for yourself how difficult it is to manage such an emergency. a situation of an island of a few square kilometres where for years and years - and in the meantime the governments of the right and the left have succeeded each other - thousands and thousands of people are continually disembarking. some of these people die on the way because of the inhuman conditions to which they are subjected by unscrupulous traffickers. what are you supposed to do then, break the rules? in order to proceed with possible repatriation or to verify whether they have the status of political refugees or whether political asylum should be granted, people must be identified and this obviously takes time. so enough of the demagogy! italy is paying a price in terms of responsibility that is very high and disproportionate to the support, both financial and legislative, provided by the european union itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against illegal immigration, because of its scale and effects, is a problem which must be solved at community level, because only the european union has the political power to find appropriate solutions and to contain the phenomenon. no single country, acting alone, can achieve the same results. the italian government, while awaiting the implementation of european strategies, is continuing its work in compliance with both the european pact on immigration and asylum, adopted by the european council in october 2008, and the december 2008 return directive. it's important work both domestically and internationally. the proposal by the moroccan minister of the interior to set up an identification and expulsion centre on the island to implement a direct return policy in this particular case has been widely criticised, and i think this is unfair. this choice does not affect the fundamental rights of illegal immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers, as has been argued by several parties. to prove this, i shall quote only some of the data on lampedusa which have already been given: as of january 2009, 76 applications had been examined, of which 36 had been accepted, 3 had been suspended and 37 had been rejected. all asylum seekers, however, were transferred from the island to the centres of trapani, bari and crotone. that means that those who meet the requirements are accepted. on the other hand, at international level, the italian parliament today ratified the agreement concluded with libya, which expressly provides, in article 19, for the establishment of a more efficient system of control of libyan land borders to prevent illegal immigration. last week, ministers maroni and frattini met with the tunisian authorities to try to reach a readmission agreement with that country, which is an essential condition for a sustainable return. the idea that must be passed on, as vice-president barrot has also said, here in parliament is that we must be absolutely firm against illegal immigration, but at the same time welcoming and supportive of those who integrate and contribute to the social and economic development of our countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must decide: what is the future of europe? do you want regulated immigration or the invasion and criminal exploitation of illegal aliens? the italian government's choice is right: the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the return of refugees is not delayed. but we need the right means and europe must not only debate, only criticize, only look through binoculars. it is not enough to say that the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. today 120 illegal immigrants are leaving lampedusa for tunisia, doing what the previous governments did not do, because the illegal immigrants must be returned. so they cut the nails of the criminal mafia that exploit and make these trips and then exploit for their criminal trade. an anti-mafia professional like fava should be able to understand that, it's not difficult, he should understand that too. the maroni line is approved by malta, greece and cyprus, those close to the southern front of our country. all asylum seekers and minors have already been transferred to special centres. it's not true what was said! if mrs roure wants to go to lampedusa tomorrow morning, she can't find a single child and if she reads the italian newspapers she will find that it is minister maroni who has denounced the organ trafficking: the children disappeared when the left was in power in our country, from lampedusa. maroni has reported it. well, one thing's for sure: europe is only entered legally and not by the boats of the mafia and the trafficking criminals!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the wishes of the people of lampedusa. at this moment the people of lampedusa are protesting, and they marched almost entirely the other day on the streets of the island, because they do not want either the cpt or the cie, which is the latest find. this cie, the centre for expulsion and identification, is to be set up on an island which, as we remember, is 11 km by 3 km, so it is a laughable space in the face of the thousands of immigrants who will be on the island in the coming months. the other day, just as the sudden and unexpected escape of 1,000 immigrants from the cpt was taking place, i was on the island and witnessed the shock and fear of the local people who no longer want to witness such things. this is an island that has lived off fishing and tourism and sees its economy destroyed by a blind immigration policy.
the debate is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a wonderful occasion, this occasion today, and the credit goes, in particular, to csaba tabajdi, chairman of the intergroup and a well-deserved minority. i use italian today, which is the language of the state, and not my mother tongue. and there 's a reason for that . the italian state is home to a large number of ethnic minorities of different origins and ethnicities. i want to give today with this demonstration - also with the demonstration that an ethnic minority is not an ethnic minority only for itself but must live solidarity - also to these minorities today a voice here, i would also like to give it to the italian minorities living abroad who otherwise would not have this opportunity. president barrot spoke today about non-discrimination. i believe that non-discrimination is too little, because we must achieve equality of rights, and equality of rights will only be achieved when we have minority situations, giving them a considerable contribution so that they can reach the same level as the majority peoples, and for this reason we also need positive discrimination in certain situations. this, i think, is a new concept, a concept that must be pursued. the european union has powers and with article 21, article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights, article 2 of the lisbon treaty - we hope that things will come into force as soon as possible - in combination with the copenhagen criteria and with a minimum of flexibility and legislative imagination we could do a lot of things. i would like to mention in particular article 2 of the lisbon agreement, and here i would like to thank in particular the then foreign minister, mr franco frattini, who made a decisive contribution to its inclusion, on the protection of the right of individuals. we want to protect the rights of groups, that is our aim. we want to protect the rights of groups, that is our aim. with 168 minorities in the european union, about 330 on the european continent, 100 million of our fellow citizens on this continent are experiencing a situation. we in south tyrol have reached a level that can be improved, of course, but it is very, very good. and when i hear from representatives in this house, from colleagues from majority peoples, that their minorities are treated well, i have a certain suspicion. i would prefer that the representatives of these minorities say that you are well treated. we in the union must understand that minorities are an added value, a bridge between cultures, between peoples and countries. we have to work in the direction: unity in cultural diversity . "
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the speakers who have come before me have shown how well our work has succeeded in fusing and synthesizing very different sensibilities which have been brought together in a common project. the florenz report, which deserves credit for having succeeded in producing this synthesis with a great capacity for listening, is ultimately, let us say, a project of energy conversion, of a general change in production systems and in patterns of life and consumption. it is not an easy thing, it is not a philosophical proclamation, it also provides for stages of approach. for example, in this kind of legacy that we are handing over to the next parliament we also indicate what we believe should be the priorities for action in the next legislature, towards copenhagen and beyond copenhagen. but i want to focus on the content. i think it is my duty first of all to thank those who have been the main protagonists of this work, the secretariat. i have here a statistic of our work, just to mention the eight thematic sessions we have organized with 60 of the world's leading experts; just organizing this traffic, let's say, gives you an idea of how important their work was. and above all, i wanted to make an appeal, a wish, for the new parliament. president pöttering herself has shown that she believes in the commitment of this committee that - let us be honest - when it was born a year and a half ago it was not very well received by everyone in this parliament. she has visited us twice, thus signalling her personal sensitivity to the subject and to our work. then i'll also speak to you directly, if you'll allow me. it would be a pity if the next parliament did not have a similar instrument in its next term, also because in the meantime many national parliaments and governments have restructured themselves by taking the climate as a specific area of work. i hope that in the next parliament the stagnant compartments and the separate logic of the various committees will not prevail again, but that, in the manner we have suggested, we will be equipped for this long journey towards a low-carbon economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr florenz for his work. finally we get to vote on this work, which has been going on for a year and a half by the committee on climate change, which i personally consider a success, albeit a modest one. this is because parliament has shown itself to be the most sensitive institution to change, by having an ad hoc instrument - the temporary committee - to collect data and ideas on a matter which affects us all and whose effects are and will be a problem to be solved collectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as i have said many times, climate change is an urgent and serious issue that must be addressed with specific and effective instruments. we wanted this committee to have the possibility of a transversal approach to policies which have always been treated in a too fragmented way. i hope that this will continue in the future parliament and that parliament will continue to be involved in the copenhagen negotiations. we need a global consensus and for this we must make offers especially to the developing countries and here we still lack the conditions of equity which will convince the developing peoples of this policy. it's a little too eurocentric, it's a little too compartmentalized. we are facing a change of civilisation and we must politically make proposals which are first of all this and then also, let us say, a progressive dematerialization of our civilisation, because otherwise it will not be sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate president florenz. when i call him president, i do so with the esteem and respect for the commitment he has always shown in our parliament. the adoption of the climate and energy package has provided the eu with a legislative framework that enables it to play a leading role. the recent openings announced by the new us administration give hope for a future commitment shared by the us to halt the consequences of climate change. however, the full success of the negotiations will depend on the involvement of all those developing country economies, such as china and india, and will be possible, as the chinese minister for the environment pointed out during our meeting with the delegation from the climate committee, only with the joint contribution of the richest countries, which will guarantee adequate financial resources to promote sustainable development. a step forward in this direction was taken by the poznan conference and the decision to make the adaptation fund operational, as well as the allocation of eur 50 million for research and technological development, allocated to developing countries to support the progress of green technologies at global level. we must ensure that copenhagen marks the decisive turning point in a joint and concrete commitment by the economically stronger countries to the creation of a fund that will guarantee a steady financial flow for financing sustainable development in the emerging countries. only through internationally agreed commitments and with the involvement of emerging countries will we be able to safeguard the environment from irreversible effects and, at the same time, to preserve the competitiveness of european companies from the effects and socioeconomic costs of environmental dumping on the global market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr florenz on his good work, which has been the result of his constant presence, attention and participation. his report is the fruit of the contribution he made to the work of the committee, which was so well chaired by mr sacconi, and which carried out in-depth research, debate, but above all contributed to the role that this parliament played in the adoption of the climate package. president pöttering, i also give you the question of how our work can and must continue towards copenhagen. as regards the florenz report, i think it would be wrong to alter the balance by introducing amendments which at this stage are ideological in nature on the nuclear question. they are not shared, they are out of context beyond the thinking of the person who proposes them, they alter the common work. i would ask my colleagues to consider including an amendment i have proposed on the relationship between climate change and water, which i believe covers a useful area also in the light of the growing attention of international bodies, the ipcc and unep, which indicate this issue as crucial for the future and also in view of the world water forum in istanbul.
the rapporteur. - madam president, with your permission i would ask the council, with the support of the other groups, to attach the following formal statement to the directive and therefore to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution. i read the statement which i believe is attached: the european parliament and the council state that the rules on subcontracting agreed in article 9 of this directive shall be without prejudice to other provisions on this issue to be adopted in future legislative instruments. other
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the presidency takes note of the proposed declaration. however, it has to inform the members of the european parliament that it cannot make commitments on behalf of the council without consulting it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i know that the council will have to formally convene coreper. i ask the presidency to propose this declaration to be formally added and for this reason i ask you to postpone the vote on the resolution to the next plenary session, so as to give the council time to complete this formal consultation.
madam president, i wanted to speak on the rules of procedure because it seems to me that the fava report has not been voted on. i cannot see how you can make statements of vote on something that has not been voted on.
madam president, i am a motorist and as a motorist i am constantly mad as hell at all the harassment of the motoring sector, such as that proposed in certain parts of the report, and that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr fava on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third country nationals. i agree with the rapporteur when he expresses concern about the social consequences of this phenomenon and the conditions of exploitation in which these migrants find themselves. unethical employers exploit illegal immigrants for jobs that no one wants to do - low-paying, low-skilled jobs. in addition, illegal work is a real social scourge because it can lead to lower wages and worse working conditions, as well as to distortions of competition between firms. i therefore welcome the initiative of the honourable member to protect the rights of these people who are in a vulnerable position.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies. i believe that, in parallel with the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, we must also improve energy efficiency by 20% over the same period. for this reason, i support the proposal which is being put forward, which aims to raise awareness, for example through demonstration projects, of the importance of ict in improving energy efficiency in the eu economy and as a driver of higher productivity and growth, as well as cost reductions that promote competitiveness, sustainable development and the improvement of the quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. - i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the repatriation and resettlement of prisoners at guantanamo. in particular, i firmly believe that the responsibility for the entire process of closing the guantanamo detention centre and the future of its detainees lies solely and exclusively with the united states of america. i do not agree with the part of the resolution which states that responsibility for international law and fundamental rights lies with all democratic countries and in particular with the european union. you cannot interfere in a matter where the united states government has exclusive jurisdiction. finally, i disagree with the possibility of accepting guantanamo detainees into the european union for the reasons mentioned above.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like first of all to thank you for initiating this debate. i think it was the right move, to use the momentum of the upcoming first anniversary of the declaration of independence of kosovo. i think it is a timely move, especially with regard to the current economic crisis, because there is the potential danger that it will somehow disappear off our radar screen, while we still bear a lot of responsibility for completing the work: not just in kosovo, but also in the broader area of the western balkans. i guess that what has been said here by many of you – like hannes swoboda and others – deserves a lot of attention. i think that the position of the council is exactly the same. we have a lot of challenges ahead of us. i would like to stress the three most important pillars of our policy towards kosovo. the first is the indivisibility and stability of kosovo. the second is decentralisation and equal opportunities for all minorities there. the third – and probably the most important and the most challenging – is the involvement of kosovo in regional and european mainstreaming: regional cooperation in the western balkans. certainly, one day we should bring kosovo closer to the stabilisation and association process, but still a lot of work remains to be done, and it is no secret that on certain issues, unity in the council will be difficult to attain. i think our goal should be to concentrate on the future rather than on the past, and i really appreciate the statements of those who did so. of course, dialogue with serbia on the outstanding practical issues must be conducted with full transparency and a lot of intensity, but i think that realism should be the guiding principle for us. the economic situation and its improvement is of paramount importance for achieving stability, so the effective management and mobilisation of kosovo’s own resources is a condition sine qua non there, as is sound administration and mobilisation of international resources. also, fighting corruption and having transparent privatisation is an important element. i think that parliament’s support for eulex is very important here. let me congratulate joost lagendijk on the work which he did. it was excellent. when i read the text, i personally had no complaints about it, though i would probably be a bit careful: we all know the economic situation in kosovo and the energy shortages in kosovo, as well as in the balkans in general. lignite and power generation is one of the few opportunities for them somehow to build a sustainable economy and to integrate this economy into the region. yes, environmental concerns are important, but the booming of future economic stability is no less important. some of you mentioned the situation of the roma families in the trebca mines. we all know that this is a disastrous situation, and you are certainly aware of the commission of work on this subject. there was a delegation led by pierre morel which visited the area in december, and they offered to meet with the roma camp leaders in trebca. there is no easy solution. we know there is an offer for them to move outside this area, but for the time being they are not ready to do that. in fact they are declining to do that, so a lot of work also remains to be done here. i think the meeting next week with pieter feith, who is also involved in this, will be an opportunity to discuss this further. once again, thank you very much. i think we had a very fruitful debate, and i hope that parliament will continue to support all our efforts in kosovo, as well as in the region.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission congratulates mr lagendijk and welcomes his resolution: it provides for the further involvement of kosovo in the ongoing process of bringing the region closer to europe. the commission has established an effective mode of cooperation with all local actors working in kosovo, including eulex and the eu’s special representative. we will continue this cooperation. it is the only way our work in kosovo can bear fruit. good cooperation so far has proved essential to maintain peace in this area. the commission financed a eur 7 million project on the rule of law, including a component of eur 1 million to fight corruption. to be more specific, in december 2008 we provided detailed and comprehensive answers to all the questions raised, both orally and in writing, to mr bösch, chair of the committee on budgetary control. they clarified the issues raised regarding eu funding and the way this has been managed in kosovo. they also informed members on the financial management and control systems that the commission has currently in place. since then, we have received no further requests for information. we can provide members with copies of the material sent to the committee on budgetary control, should they be interested. i would like to refer to the remark of ms kallenbach concerning the central european free trade agreement (cefta). we hope that an improvement in relations between serbia and kosovo may permit the integration of kosovo in cefta. the commission will do its best to facilitate it. there are many important issues outlined in the resolution, such as the preservation of kosovo’s cultural heritage, the improvement of public administration capacity, the better integration of all communities in kosovo, the necessity for multi-ethnic education and the plight of roma families in lead-contaminated refugee camps in the north. the commission intends to follow up these issues through existing instruments and in cooperation with other donors. we will issue our study on kosovo as part of our enlargement package in the autumn. i am confident it will include plenty of ideas to ensure that kosovo remains firmly anchored in the european outlook it shares with the western balkans as a whole.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 february 2009.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the impact of the financial crisis on the automobile industry.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think that we are now moving into a really important issue. under the current circumstances, this is something that must be discussed. once again, we are grateful for this timely opportunity to discuss the effect of the current economic and financial crisis on the automobile industry. as many of you are following very closely in your constituencies, the automobile industry is a key factor for the whole of the european economy. over the years, we have promoted the competitiveness of the sector by establishing a single european automobile market and calling for fairer competition in trade with third countries. more recently, we have focused on reducing car emissions in order to combat air pollution and climate change. in all these areas this parliament has given us its consistent support. thanks to these efforts, and in particular to the resilience and adaptability of the european automobile industry, european cars are today among the best, the most innovative and the most competitive, as well as the safest, most fuel-efficient and environmentally sustainable in the world. we should be proud of europe’s record. nevertheless, despite its resilience, and as a result of factors largely outside its control, the european automotive sector has been particularly badly hit by the global economic crisis. these difficulties were already apparent in november last year, when the council agreed on an approach based on promoting even more sustainable and fuel-efficient cars, realistic targets for manufacturers, and effective incentives for stimulating demand. in the short time since then, the situation has become more serious. the industry has reported that 8% fewer cars were sold in the union last year than in the previous year, to compare 2008 with 2007. the situation is likely to remain as bad – if it does not get worse – in 2009, hitting not just the automotive constructors, but also the whole automotive industry supply chain. ministers met my friend, günter verheugen, the commissioner and the vice-president of the commission, on 16 january to discuss the specific problems facing the automobile industry. they expressed particular concern that the current difficulties would put at risk a significant number of jobs and underlined the importance they attached to the future of the industry. of course, the primary responsibility for responding to these challenges rests with the industry itself. the industry must be encouraged to take all necessary steps to address structural problems such as overcapacity and lack of investment in new technologies. however, the importance of this industry for the european economy, and the fact that the sector is hit particularly hard by the current crisis, means that some sort of public support is required. this is reflected in the european economic recovery plan agreed by the european council last december, as well as in the member states’ national programmes. of course, we cannot allow short-term support for the industry to undermine its long-term competitiveness. this means focusing clearly on innovation. member states agree that public support for the automotive industry needs to be both targeted and coordinated. it also needs to respect some key principles, such as fair competition and open markets. it should not be about a race for subsidies, and it should not result in market distortions. in order to achieve this, member states have confirmed their willingness to cooperate closely with the commission on both supply-side and demand-side measures taken nationally. the commission has, in turn, undertaken to provide a swift response in cases where it is required to react. more generally, the council’s presidency fully supports the commission on the need to advance rapidly with the implementation of the european economic recovery plan. the commission has also been invited to explore, together with the european investment bank, how the utilisation of the loans envisaged for this sector can be further improved in terms of rapid availability, project financing and frontloading of the loans, without discriminating between manufacturers and member states. with regard to the global environment, we clearly need to engage in an early dialogue with the new us administration as well as with our other global partners. the czech presidency is determined to push forward with this overall policy of support for the industry, whilst respecting the principles and parameters to which i have referred. there is already a wide range of community instruments which can play their part in providing support, not least in the area of new technology, for example in the development of clean cars. the full potential of innovative and environmentally sustainable propulsion technologies – fuel cells, hybrid, electrical, solar power – needs to be fully explored and put into operation. on the other hand, there are also more ready-made and rapidly available instruments, such as, for example, the scrapping scheme for old cars. these instruments could combine the demand impulse for new cars with positive externalities in terms of transport security, reduction of emissions and others. there are now several member states which already use this instrument. therefore, the presidency would like to ask the commission immediately to put forward a proposal on how to encourage, in a coordinated manner, european car fleet renewal in the area of vehicle recovery and recycling, based on the analysis of the impact of these schemes in different member states. our aim is to have a proposal from the commission some time ahead of the spring european council, in the context of the evaluation of the recovery plan, and to be able to discuss the issue during the competitiveness council in march. this will be headed by my colleague martin říman and vice-president of the commission, günter verheugen. such schemes may provide an important demand stimulus for the automotive industry at community level and should also ensure a level playing field within the internal market. i would like to underline the second half of the sentence, also in the current context. to summarise: this is not just about supporting a key sector of our economy but is an approach from which we all stand to benefit in the long run.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has been a very important meeting. mr alexandr vondra has just told you what came out of the meeting i held with the ministers responsible for the motor vehicle industry on 16 january. i can only confirm all this, but i would still advise caution. we must also be careful not to create expectations or hopes that we cannot possibly fulfill. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. cars are an early indicator of economic development. it was therefore not surprising that the severe drop in demand for cars, which we experienced from last summer, was followed by a downturn in all other economic sectors. why is that? the decline in demand is an expression of a lack of confidence in economic development. consumers behave no differently from businesses. in uncertain economic times, when you don't know what's coming, you keep your money together. in the private household, the purchase of a new car over several years is the largest investment. it can be postponed, however, because a european car can still be driven for another year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the measures we are taking together in europe to combat the crisis as a whole are of the utmost importance. i want to give you a few more figures to help you understand the meaning: the european automotive industry directly and indirectly employs 12 million people, or 6% of all jobs in the european union. it is the most important economic sector for our exports. the biggest export surplus we ever make is on cars. we produced 19.6 million cars in europe in 2007, almost a million fewer last year and this year it will decrease again significantly. there are about 2 million unsold cars on hold right now. the automotive industry is the industry with the highest share of research and development in europe. on average, companies spend 4% on research and development, whereas the average european company spends only 2%. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the crisis has hit this industry hard in all sectors at the same time. this is the first time this has happened, we have never had this before, and i have to point out to you that the public is only concerned with the situation with passenger cars. the situation is much more dramatic in the commercial vehicle sector, where orders for the entire european union have been reduced to practically zero, with a production capacity of almost 40 000 commercial vehicles per month. the negative effects on employment will not be excluded, and this is mainly due to two factors. we have a clear overcapacity of motor vehicles in the european union. the industry itself admits that it is 20%. there are people who say it's much more than that. but 20% is a very high figure, and if you compare that to the number of people employed, we are talking about 400 000 jobs. there is no doubt that the structural measures long planned by european car manufacturers will be accelerated in the year of the crisis. i say this in all clarity and distinctness. there is no guarantee that we will have all the production sites in europe that we have today by the end of this year. the probability is high that we will not have a whole series of production sites at the end of this year. there is not even a guarantee that all european producers will be on the market by the end of this year. the international competitive pressure in the automobile industry is very strong. we have strengthened it here as european legislators by demanding that the european automobile industry performs significantly in the years to come. they must be able to innovate significantly. i would like to say, in order to avoid mrs harms criticising me again, that i am not criticising this, mrs harms, i think it is the right thing to do. don't accuse me of stating facts. i'm not criticizing, i'm just stating the obvious. we have made the european car considerably more expensive by our legislation, and it will become much more expensive in the coming years. the effect of this is to increase competitive pressure, to increase cost pressure and to increase the need for firms to increase productivity. it is the only way to survive in this competitive environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the automobile sector. it does not in any case lead to a positive employment effect. that's the situation we have. our policy now has two objectives. firstly, to get european industry through this crisis and - i emphasize every word - to avoid losing a single european manufacturer in the process. not one. the second is to strengthen the competitiveness of the european automotive industry in the long term and to establish europe as the leading automotive region in the world. as far as the measures in part i are concerned, we have done what could be done. we have opened up access to finance for the european automobile industry, which is particularly hard hit by the credit crunch. the european investment bank is providing nine billion euros for this industry alone this year, and i have to tell you, it makes no sense to ask for more here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. nine billion are available. we have made the control of aid so flexible, thanks to the work of my colleague neelie kroes, and we have changed the rules so that member states have much more scope to react quickly and specifically when individual aid is needed. the commission is taking on the role that the law has given it, which is to ensure that these measures do not distort competition and do not jeopardise our policy objectives. i'll give you just one example. it is perfectly clear that aid to the european subsidiaries of american companies can only be approved if it is clear that it is intended solely to preserve jobs in europe. we have taken a number of measures to promote fleet renewal, while at the same time pursuing the objective of achieving a positive environmental effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system of paying scrappage premiums is not applied by all member states, but those which do follow the principles we have already agreed on, namely that these measures must not be discriminatory against other producers. to give you another example: a member state cannot say: i will give you a premium if you scrap your old car, but the new car must be a german car if you live in germany, or a french car or a czech car. that's not possible. but it is possible, for example - and i would welcome this - to link such scrappage premiums to environmental objectives. to say that it will only be paid if the new car purchased is a car that meets certain emission standards. as far as we can see, this premium is working and therefore has the desired positive effect. there is only one way to get the commercial vehicle market moving. there are no scrappage premiums here, as you can imagine. the aim here is to provide access to finance, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. we are. and it is about ensuring that public investment gives priority to the procurement of environmentally friendly commercial vehicles, for example in public transport or other public services for which vehicles are needed. we've already done all that. in the long term - we have already discussed this in this house on several occasions - the recommendations in the cars 21 process are to ensure the future of the european automobile industry by making greater efforts in innovation, research and development, so that the european car of the future is the world's leading car not only in terms of technical standards, production standards and safety standards, but also in terms of fuel efficiency, i.e. consumption poverty, and environmental friendliness, i.e. low emissions. the european industry is also moving in this direction and we are supporting these projects under the european economic recovery programme, as you all know. in conclusion, let me say that the most important result of the consultation with the member states was that we gave each other a firm promise not to allow a protectionist race in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we can still do to stimulate consumption and to guide the automobile industry through this crisis and help it through this crisis is to ensure that international conditions of competition are not also violated. this is a question that should be addressed to the united states in particular. we shall see what measures president obama takes to deal with the crisis in the american automobile industry. i would like to say this: we have no interest from a european point of view in the bankruptcy of the american car manufacturers. the consequences for europe would be devastating if that were to happen. we are not interested in an american policy which favours the american car industry at the expense of competitors from other parts of the world. i hope that this can be discussed with our american friends in peace. the european automobile industry is not on the brink of collapse. it is in a difficult situation, but we firmly believe that it is capable and strong enough to cope with this difficult situation and to make an important contribution to creating and safeguarding jobs and prosperity in europe in the future.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank minister vondra and commissioner verheugen for the speed with which they have communicated this to us. i must say that i share the concern and the realism that has been proposed. i mean, we know what we're talking about. i have seen an estimate that potentially two million jobs could be lost this year in the entire automotive industry, most of them in component manufacturing. and we have an extraordinary contradiction. on the one hand we have a fleet of vehicles - as you rightly said - both private and public, very old, with high levels of emissions, and on the other hand, a demand that is slowing down, very slowing down, if not collapsing. so i very much appreciated the recovery plan decided by the commission, which has tried to use all the instruments at its disposal, but which are limited, as we know and for reasons we know. we must really act on demand, we must make a real counter-cyclical move to support it strongly, also in the light of the environmental objectives for which we have been so committed in recent months. what happens? it happens that each country moves on its own. who does and who doesn't. for example, my country has done nothing so far. some do it one way, some do it another. but i agree with you: we are not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that, because i am not sure that the commission will be able to do that. it seems to me that france has come up with a clever solution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. it would seem to me a win-win system, everyone would benefit: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the motor vehicle sector has become a crisis of a whole sector, of the industry, of other related sectors, of trade networks and therefore of services, and it has dramatic prospects in terms of employment. i think that the dramatic decline in these last registrations - for this month, it is said, for some member countries, minus 33%, minus 20%, etc. - shows that this is not a crisis of a technologically obsolete sector, it does not arise within the sector, from within this or that company, from managerial errors. it is a systemic crisis and as such must be tackled urgently and decisively by the european institutions themselves. some of the solutions seem to have been identified, but it is important how they are to be implemented, with what resources and with what prospects for innovation. we must certainly support demand, consumption is the only driver of the recovery. but while this response to support consumption is being made, which is a medium-term response, i think we must say that we need immediate credit support to resume production, pay for materials, support employment, even in the face of a drop in orders and demand. so the credit scope. but we said it's important how. i too call for a stronger role for europe. it is important that the european institutions make a statement. america is intervening, some european countries are doing so, i too hope that my country will move from generic proposals to concrete initiatives, but i hope that there will be stronger european action in the recovery plan and even beyond the recovery plan, because i think, and our commissioner has said it in some ways, that the fate of the big european companies is a common fate and the big european manufacturers must not find competition within the common market in the form of various forms of state aid or facilitation, but must find a strong, incisive and coordinated european response, so that the fate of the european car market is measured by the ability to face world competition together. and there is the other point that was raised, sacconi said it and i quote: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not aid, or even aid to the rescue of the industry, which leaves everything as it is, but an incentive for the future competitiveness of the sector in terms of innovation, environmentally friendly production and also more environmentally friendly technologies and the safety of travellers and transport.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the situation in the automobile sector is a good example of this, and i think, and i agree with mr sacconi, that more than two million jobs are at risk. the crisis risks excluding the weakest: the elderly and the precarious workers. we must act quickly and forcefully. there is aid, but we must decide - and i say this to the commissioner very clearly - whether it should be coordinated at european level or not, as some very large countries seem to propose. i think that european coordination is needed and that there must be coordination in two directions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that no worker, starting with the elderly and the precarious, should be fired. you can't innovate by chasing workers. the globalisation fund must also be adapted to this end and the social fund, which is now talking about new jobs to be created, must be re-adapted to meet the requirement not to expel a worker. but then we need to put work back at the centre of europe, to give it its rightful place as the founder of democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the commitments of the council and the commission, but i would like to remind you that the overall fall in sales in this sector was 8% in 2008. the number of workers who have lost their jobs or are in the redundancy fund has reached thousands. mr sacconi recalled the data earlier. this is not just the case with the large car companies, but with all the companies in the industry. i think of tuscany, where i come from. as i have just said, the european suppliers' association estimates that one in ten companies will be at risk of going bankrupt in the coming months. i think that we need to act quickly, clearly and realistically, and i know that commissioner verheugen is attentive and sensitive. there is no time, commissioner. the coordination of the actions of the european countries is essential, otherwise there is a risk of a disorganized approach and of not producing effective results for the economy of the european union and for the support of workers. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. we must act now to revise the criteria for the globalisation adjustment fund to be used to support european workers and i believe that we need more funding from .... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increased mobility of europe's citizens, which is constantly increasing, certainly requires the implementation of consular cooperation. the commission's proposals are particularly welcome as regards the simplification of the procedures for granting cash advances to citizens in difficulty. the right to consular protection is undoubtedly fragmented and unevenly distributed today. abroad, european citizenship often does not exist and one may wish to be a citizen of another state, albeit of the union. i would like to see the call to pride in being european not only used when it is useful to the institutions, but also when it is useful to the citizen who, perhaps in difficulty, hopes that his european identity will finally be useful to him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a few years ago in italy it was claimed that feed mixed in the stables by farmers was considered to be feed and therefore to be feed for the stables. farmers would never have been able to adapt to complex health regulations, haccp, traceability, and so they would have been forced to buy from the real feed mills the food that has always been made on the farm for centuries. we were able to foil the ambush back then. the report we are discussing today defines feedingstuffs but not feed mills. in order not to place the blame on europe again, it must be clear that the animal feeds mixed in the livestock enterprise are not feed, but simply a random mixing of feed and raw materials directly from the fields, and the farm is not a feed mill. it may be a biased position, but caution is never in the least when interpretations have a high economic significance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in recent months, and especially in this parliament, a gradual reduction in direct support for our farmers and in the rules which protected our products from imports from cheaper non-european countries, in order to free up the resources needed to meet the new challenges of our millennium - environmental, economic and social - and to comply with international trade agreements. as a member of the agri committee and above all of the delegation from a country which has made the quality of its agricultural products - and i am thinking of olive oil, wine and cheese - a globally recognised and respected trademark, i can only approve of any action the commission proposes to safeguard the production of high quality european products and, where possible, to promote their marketing both on the internal market and abroad. this information programme is particularly important, because it should make it clear to european consumers that our products are not in competition with those from other countries, which may be cheaper, but that they are an alternative based on quality and a production model which respects the environment and social standards, animal welfare, which naturally affects human health. the rules we vote on in this house every day can have a price to pay, especially for our producers. that is why we must offer them all the help we can, so that the richness and quality of our products is not lost and is not flattened in an increasingly homogeneous global market. i therefore support the rapporteur's amendments which seek to increase the commission's co-financing, the actions that can be financed and above all the participation of producer associations, which are better placed than anyone else to defend the qualitative prerogatives of their products in the face of increasingly demanding consumers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i apologise to my colleagues and thank them for their patience. we should remember that for many years the european parliament has wanted to express its views on small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for 99% of all european enterprises and 75 million jobs, whereas today these small and mediumsized enterprises have access to the external market, outside the union, at 3% and 8% within the union. we therefore call on the council and the commission to deal with this reality in multilateral and bilateral negotiations, in access to foreign markets, in the fight against counterfeiting, in the use of trade defence instruments and in tendering procedures. trade brings them greater prosperity. i would like to thank my colleagues on the inta committee and especially the shadow rapporteurs of the two main groups, mr saïfi and mr locatelli, and also the secretariat and in particular dr bendini. i believe that with the work of all of us we are offering today to the european commission shared reflections and proposals on a subject which we know is dear to commissioner ashton, as he recalled in his investiture hearing, and which we must tackle immediately if we are to solve, at least in part, the great economic and financial crisis which is gripping our workers and citizens.
in writing. i am in favour of the report by mr dumitriu on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. i believe, as the commission has repeatedly said, that administrative procedures must be simplified within the european institutional framework. this regulation allows the community to carry out information measures on the internal market and on the markets of third countries for a number of agricultural products, while maintaining the specific characteristics of the measures depending on the place of implementation. i agree with the political decision that has been taken, which respects the needs of the member states, who are keen to promote an image of their agricultural products to consumers within the community and in third countries that is based primarily on quality, nutritional characteristics, food safety and production methods.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mrs roure on the implementation in the eu of directive 2003/9/ec on the reception conditions for asylum seekers and refugees. in fact, although i regret that some visits have shown that the existing directives were still being poorly applied or were not being applied by some member states, i do not agree with the rapporteur when she says that there are various shortcomings in the level of reception conditions. i also disagree with the fact that the capacity of the first reception centres opened by some member states is poor and does not seem to meet the needs of migrants. finally, i do not agree with the request that asylum seekers be accommodated as a priority in open reception centres rather than in closed units.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs muscardini on the strengthening of the role of european smes in international trade. for the european union, which is dominated by small and mediumsized enterprises, the international presence of smes is crucial. at present, only 8% of smes have an international dimension and most exports remain within the european union. the few smes exporting outside the european union also tend to concentrate on mature and tending to be saturated markets such as the united states, canada and switzerland, while the presence of smes in emerging countries is low. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mr papastamkos on international trade and the internet. i agree with the rapporteur's aim of highlighting the areas of international trade in which the internet has acted as a catalyst, creating new conditions for the development of world trade. this is evident, because international trade and the internet influence each other in a very obvious way. i am also firmly convinced that the development of e-commerce is of considerable benefit to consumers. the main advantages, both at national and european level and worldwide, are the very wide choice of goods and services, competitive prices, a lower cost of living and a better quality of life. consumers are now able to compare products and services better, thanks to the availability of more information. access is available 24 hours a day from home or work.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf on the placing on the market and use of feedingstuffs. i agree with the proposal, which provides for a radical overhaul of european legislation on animal feed, involving not only the simplification of existing rules but also the adaptation of that legislation to the provisions applicable to food. among the main aspects, i am absolutely in favour of the indication of the raw materials present in compound feedingstuffs and their exact quantity (the so-called 'open declaration'), which was one of the main requests made by the european parliament following the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) crisis. finally, i agree with the rapporteur on the protection of the consumer's right to information and the labelling of such feedingstuffs.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr schröder on the impact of economic partnership agreements (epas) on development. the launch agreements signed so far are only the beginning of a long and fruitful cooperation with these non-european countries. in the case of the epas, a 15-year liberalisation process was considered acceptable by both the eu and the acp countries. in addition, the minimum requirement for virtually all areas of trade to be liberalised should not be less than 80% of trade between the partners. finally, i am convinced that the development of further agreements will only improve the economic situation of both parties.
in writing. - i shall vote against the motion for a resolution on kosovo. i do not agree with several points in the resolution. i personally do not believe that the creation of a functioning witness protection programme is essential for effective prosecution of high-level criminals in kosovo, particularly with regard to war crimes. furthermore, i do not think it is of primary importance for kosovo to promote projects aimed, for example, at the recovery of vandalised cemeteries with the direct involvement of local actors: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i welcome the negative view of mrs wortmann-kool's proposal on economic and trade relations with china. i disagree with several points in the report. for example, as regards the future actions that the european union will take, i do not agree that problems should be prevented through bilateral dialogue. in fact, bringing chinese policymakers closer to their european counterparts in the commission does not adequately address issues of mutual interest, in particular in the areas of investment, market access and protection of intellectual property rights, as well as other strategic market-related issues. this is due to a failure on the part of the chinese government to comply with the economic agreements in place with the european union.
author of the book. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. these are the names of four citizens who, along with many others, lost their lives between 6 june 1978 and 19 april 1979, killed by the murderous madness of terrorist organizations which attempted to subvert the democratic order in italy. and one of the assassins' name is cesare battisti. i would first like to express the regret of the president of the italian republic, mr napolitano, for the decision of the president of brazil, mr lula, to grant political refugee status to the italian terrorist cesare battisti, who was sentenced to life imprisonment on previous convictions for the four murders mentioned above during the so-called 'years of lead'. i would remind you that mr battisti has been found guilty not only by the italian courts but also by the french courts and the european court of human rights. we are facing an inexplicable and very serious act which cannot and must not go unnoticed by the european institutions. it is a duty towards the relatives of the battisti victims, but it is also a duty, and above all because the european union has for many years defined a strategy against terrorism to guarantee the security of citizens and to safeguard democratic institutions. to stand by and watch would therefore be to frustrate the efforts made in recent years to combat together an ever present threat. the european people's party also hopes that brazil will reconsider and give serious thought to a very delicate but absolutely legitimate and necessary request. brazil is a great democratic country, which has always had good relations with europe and italy. and that's why this door slammed in our faces is a surprise. it is precisely because of the friendship and respect that bind our countries, the friendship and cooperation and partnership agreements that bind brazil and the european union, both politically and economically, that the response must be decisive and effective on the part of all. europe must stand in solidarity with the italian government, which is using every legitimate form of political and diplomatic pressure and legal recourse to ensure that justice is done. the decision taken by the brazilians is in a deplorable contrast with the image of the european union, because it seems to assume that political persecution and torture are practised within a member state of the union. we are faced with an unacceptable fact which has no basis in reality.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly deplorable that a member should come to the chamber and speak without having even read the text of a resolution written and signed by all the major groups, and therefore say things that are false. the trials have been closed for many, many years. back to our problem. the farfetched speeches of a convicted terrorist and serial killer cannot find a foothold in the government of a friendly country with which we cooperate. we stress the need, already expressed in a letter to the president of the union, for an internal debate in the council which, starting from this incredible event and taking into account the new international terrorism, will address and decide on a common rule for extradition both within the 27 countries of the union and between the union and third countries. no one can allow those who have killed defenseless people and have evaded justice and the relatives of the victims by any means to behave as if they were being persecuted and to set dangerous precedents to the detriment of the law and the community of citizens.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this joint motion for a resolution, this parliament will make its authoritative voice heard at international level in favour of reviewing the extradition of cesare battisti and, above all, it will pay tribute to the memory of the victims and express its closeness to their families who, for more than twenty years, have been waiting for their fundamental right to justice, which has been trampled upon for so long, to be finally affirmed. other words would be superfluous. that is why, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to take the time, the few seconds i have left of my speech, to observe a few moments of silent reflection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr angelilli for this important gesture, which shows that this parliament has a different attitude to the european union, which hypocritically washes its hands of the so-called 'pontius pilate doctrine', when in this case two countries are involved: italy, which has paid a very high price for terrorism with its victims and its very difficult years, and france, which is involved in it to the neck thanks to the painful interest of the well-known lobby of the left "caviar", which has already distinguished itself in the petrella case and probably also in the role of the secret services. in doing so, europe is contradicting its own anti-terrorism directives and is losing all credibility in the global strategy to combat terrorism. i'd like to see if the same thing would have happened if it was a german raf terrorist. europe should tell brazil that if it does not extradite a common criminal, and moreover a communist, like battisti, who today even in prison dares to mock his victims, it will be making itself a haven for the worst criminals and terrorists. with such behaviour, every partnership agreement has to be reviewed and i think also participation in the g8. we must make it very clear that we do not negotiate with terrorists. terrorists, convicted according to regular trials because our country is a great legal civilization, in which no one is tortured and the trials are regular then serve their sentence until the last day. terrorists, murderers and communists!
author of the book. - madam president, i thank mr onesta, but i think that yet another attempt to save a convicted terrorist in extremis is a waste of time.
mr president, in paragraph 5, at the beginning, after the word 'believes', the following should be added: 'inter alia with a view to the international conference in support of the palestinian economy for the reconstruction of gaza to be held in sharm el-sheikh on 2 march 2009'.
mr president, the amendment is the same. the international conference in support of the palestinian economy, also on 2 march, in sharm el-sheikh, is being referred to. that should also be added to the recital.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the atlantic alliance is an obsolete instrument of defence and that in some cases, even in recent times, it has not helped at all in relations, for example with russia, with which i believe that relations should be implemented and should prefigure a privileged partnership. i think that the common security policy should not overlook the fact that in some recent events nato has not been the most useful instrument for deterrence or pacification. i believe that europe has now reached the maturity and political necessity to devise an independent security strategy. this does not mean being in opposition. we can be on the side of the eu, as some colleagues have said, but we cannot continue to be subject to interests which are often not european. that is why i cannot support the reports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am certainly in favour of the idea of a european army in principle, but it is necessary to define what kind of army and with what borders. in fact, it is highly contradictory that we have two armies armed against each other, the turkish and the greek, which are part of the same alliance. i am sure that the council has visited northern cyprus and has been able to appreciate the damage that the turkish military and the turkish occupation have done to an island that is certainly european. it must also be said that the alliance with america is certainly an alliance which often and willingly brings about big problems. america has dragged us into some wars, some conflicts - i remember the one with serbia, i remember the one with iraq and afghanistan - which had at heart the interests of certainly not europe. we should rather ally ourselves with russia and belarus, which are indeed historically, religiously, militarily and geopolitically european. this is the future of the european army. so an army certainly not at war with america, but at a respectful distance, without turkey, because turkey until proven otherwise is part of asia and unfortunately in the mediterranean it is in conflict with a european country, and with ally and closely linked russia and belarus.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, does europe have its own geopolitics? i don't think he is! if karl haushofer were alive today, he would teach this spineless europe the need to have a maritime approach to the atlantic, pacific and indian oceans and to the countries of our north, where the arctic ocean has enormous and precious energy resources. the great powers of the united states and russia are moving there, not europe! the fight against terrorism also means fighting those who are the vehicles of terrorism, people who can be used by terrorists. as we speak, lampedusa is on fire because someone set fire to the detention centres for illegal immigrants. europe should be concerned about showing solidarity with the italian government which is trying to stop the invasion of illegal immigrants useful to the mafias and terrorists. but i do not think that is happening in the strong and concrete way that it should. europe must defend itself against these threats, not with words but with deeds, as minister maroni and the italian government are doing.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, with this report parliament is seeking to make a constructive contribution to the prospect of strengthening the euro-mediterranean partnership. the proposals made at the paris summit on 14 july have two objectives which are mutually agreed: the first is to make projects in the field of economic, territorial and environmental integration more concrete and effective by setting up a secretariat which should operate for this purpose and with public and private funding. the second is to strengthen political dialogue throughout the process through new institutions such as the co-presidency, the summit of heads of state or government and the scheduled meetings of foreign ministers. in this context, i would like to emphasize the role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which was also recognized in the paris and subsequently marseille documents. parliament wants to help overcome the serious impasse that has arisen after the tragic events in gaza. much will depend, however, on the policies which the israeli government which will be formed after the elections will put into effect. i would like to stress, however, that the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly will be meeting shortly, and this shows the role that parliaments can play even in this difficult situation. we stress the value of institutions which involve both the european union and the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean. we stress, however, the need not to reduce the whole process to the intergovernmental dimension. we hope that civil society and the social partners will be involved in a broad way, also because the economic crisis can exacerbate the already endemic and dramatic problems of unemployment, increasing the pressure of migration and the already difficult governance of this phenomenon. we call for greater attention to human rights issues which affect the behaviour of all partner countries to varying degrees. as regards the institutions, we reiterate the view that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will enable the european union to ensure coherent and structured representation through the new figures of the president of the council and the european foreign minister. in the meantime, it would be useful to ensure a continuity of the european presence at least in the co-presidency. we know that the czech presidency has been sensitive about this. we hope that the swedish presidency will also accept this message. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the members and officials of the various political groups and committees who have expressed their views. everyone has contributed to the preparation of this report, which i believe is widely shared.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs napoletano on her work and the balance she has achieved in this area. i would like to thank mrs ferrero-waldner, who is always attentive to our work, for the important work she does around the world. we must all show great unity because the problems and challenges we are facing in the mediterranean area are particularly difficult challenges. we must push for an ever stronger and more important role for europe, considering that strategically we stand alongside the united states. the ppe-de group has worked hard over the years to ensure that europe as a whole plays an increasingly stronger and more active role. it is not enough to have funding, it is no longer enough to have funding, it is necessary to have a renewed and broad political action. among the many common challenges is also that of dealing with immigration to europe's borders. this problem cannot be tackled with goodwill, it cannot be tackled with populism, but with great rigour, aimed at enforcing the rules and the convention on human rights. the union for the mediterranean, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and the common foreign policy towards the south are all excellent and valid instruments for europe to play an increasingly stronger and more serious and credible role. that is why my group will vote against the amendments tabled by the extreme left, which we consider to be too controversial and not very constructive. my political family wants to give a major boost to this important activity which will become a priority in the near future and we therefore support the parliamentary revival of apem, no longer just a forum for discussion but a place where important decisions can be taken together for our future and for all the peoples facing the mediterranean.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my full support for any initiative aimed at strengthening the union for the mediterranean. in this context, i hope that the parliamentary role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly will be strengthened, including through the intensification of relations with the mediterranean partners, the possibility of making recommendations at the meetings of the ministers for foreign affairs, participation as an observer in the meetings of the heads of state or government, of ministers and in the preparatory meetings of senior officials. i stress the need to strengthen the role and initiatives of the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership fund and the creation of a euro-mediterranean investment bank, which has long been announced but has not yet been implemented. i welcome the proposal to create, on the lines of the european institutions, a euro-mediterranean assembly of regional and local authorities, with a view to achieving greater involvement of the regions and cities, and a euro-mediterranean economic and social committee, with the involvement of the social partners and civil society organisations. i also welcome the proposal to create a euro-mediterranean energy community, as part of a policy to implement large-scale projects in the fields of renewable energy and energy infrastructure. i also hope that the union will play an increasingly effective role in the pursuit of peace, the resolution of conflicts, the strengthening of democracy, the defence of religious freedom and the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, organised crime and human trafficking. finally, the union cannot avoid the task of managing, in conjunction with all the states concerned, the policies and migratory flows in the mediterranean area, which must be implemented not only in terms of security, legality and the repression of illegal immigration, but also and above all in terms of active policies, sources of shared rules and targeted and sustainable employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i shall vote for this motion for a resolution by my colleague, because it certainly seems to me strategic to identify the major projects to be implemented and it seems to me just as useful to stress that in order to implement them, we must somehow adopt a formula of programme agreement, which should in any case be inspired by - and i would like to stress this - the principle of subsidiarity. i am frankly a little puzzled by the call for a new impetus to be given to the management of common migration policies, although i recognize that the importance of cooperation between the member states, and not only, and the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean is certainly important and must be implemented. i also have some doubts, frankly, about the economic and trade initiatives aimed at enabling the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. this is not because i am prejudiced, but because i would like to make it a little clearer how they can be mutually beneficial.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, first of all, thank you very much for this useful debate, which brought forward a number of ideas. you have prepared a really interesting document. where are we now? we know why we are doing this: the mediterranean region is the cradle of our civilisation and therefore it is logical that we in the european union want to give it special attention. last year there was a french initiative, and we need to keep this process in motion and to develop its full potential. so we know why we are doing this and what we want to achieve. many of you have stressed how important it is that the mediterranean becomes an area of peace, stability and security, where democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms – including gender equality and the role of women in society – are upheld and fully respected. we also know how we want to achieve that, so we have the union for the mediterranean and a broad spectrum of activities. you are very well aware of the most important areas, the emphasis on renewables, the solar programme and the water management programme. i was in portugal just a week ago and that country could serve as an example of how to develop a sustainable, dynamic programme for a renewable source of energy, which is very important for the mediterranean region. we just need to move. when we met last year, both in paris and in marseilles, we could not have anticipated the situation that would arise in gaza, but the presidency, together with the commission, is doing enough to be able to start with the implementation of all the agreements which we reached last year. so i think we can reasonably expect to move on after the end of march, as i informed you, with the latest activity of the presidency. the programme of our activities for 2009 is very substantial: about nine sectoral ministerial conferences are scheduled. there are the resources, which, as far as i know, come to over eur 1 billion. so i think we are ready. there are certain realities related to the situation in gaza which have caused some delays, but i believe we will be able to overcome that. thank you very much for a useful debate. we are certainly ready to assist you further.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is of course much more to be said, but i will begin with the following question: what is the community dimension of all this? firstly, i can tell you that the community dimension is important in this matter, because the project of the union for the mediterranean is based on the barcelona process, but has also inherited the acquis of the barcelona process. so all the acquis is there. we've been working on this a lot. secondly, the union for the mediterranean is part of the neighbourhood policy. the neighbourhood policy represents the bilateral policy and the barcelona process, and today the union for the mediterranean is the multilateral part. of course, i can also tell you that the black sea and the baltic sea are in exactly the same frame, but in the north. so don't worry, thankfully, it's all there. that is what the french presidency wanted, namely to share the co-presidency with the mediterranean countries - i said that before - and to work together. now we - the commission - are also managing all future community projects, because it is necessary and because we are also under the control of parliament. only projects which may be financed by private funds are managed in a different way. the secretariat, which will be located in barcelona, will promote the projects. this is how we conceive of promotion, and then we will try to promote it with private funds because the rest will be left to the commission. the decision will be taken first by the 27 as always, and then again the co-presidency will have the opportunity to work in cooperation with the 143, the south and the north. as for mauritania, dear mrs isler béguin, it is merely a participant in multilateral relations, namely the union for the mediterranean, but it is not concerned with the neighbourhood policy. that's the difference. having said that, i can add that despite this temporary suspension we are working in the commission in a constructive spirit, of course, to implement the four to six projects that have been put forward as being priority, namely civil protection, the decontamination of the mediterranean sea, the maritime motorways and also a solar plan, madam, in which we are working a lot on renewable energy, solar in particular, because the latter, as well as wind energy and other energy sources, are very important. in total, the union for the mediterranean will therefore be able to benefit from financial support of eur 60 million from the 2008-2009 budget, in particular through regional programmes. in addition, €50 million has already been committed from the neighbourhood investment fund to support investment projects in the region. we also wanted to support the promotion of academic exchanges, and that is why, for example, i decided to extend the erasmus mundus programme to the countries of the southern mediterranean to offer them additional university scholarships. the question of women, madam president, is of course also dealt with, since it is part of the barcelona acquis. i remember, i was at the first women for the mediterranean conference, which was held in 2007 in istanbul; we are of course still working on this. but there is always, as you know, on the one hand, the bilateral aspect, concerning relations with each country, and on the other hand, the multilateral aspect, which is now at the heart of the union's concerns for the mediterranean. a word, quickly, about the secretariat: we are considering the creation of a drafting committee which will soon be responsible, among other things, for preparing the legal statutes of the secretariat. the commission has already made good progress in its preparatory work. these statutes will give the secretariat legal personality; the commission will be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the mediterranean countries. in conclusion, i would like to say again that the participation of apem as an observer in all meetings of the union for the mediterranean is very important and we support the strengthening of this role within the union for the mediterranean. in fact, when mrs kratsa went to marseille, we gave her a lot of support on this point. i think i have covered the most important points. of course, there is much more to be said on this subject.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i believe that this debate has been very useful and has also clarified some aspects of this rather complicated situation, of the instruments we have for bilateral and multilateral partnership with the countries of the south. i welcome the clarifications that the commissioner has given, pointing out that the barcelona acquis remains intact and that perhaps we as a parliament would have preferred, precisely for this reason, the first definition which was: the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean'. this would perhaps have made it clearer that we were reinforcing a system which had its own foundation. as i hope - and i say this quite openly - that i will no longer be a rapporteur - the institutional framework itself as far as europe is concerned may be susceptible to change. why would you do that? because when we have a european foreign minister, and therefore the functions of the commission and those of the council are represented in some way by this figure, i hope that this figure will not be the 28th foreign minister to join the others but that, at least for the european part, the member states will feel represented by this figure. so perhaps we will not need to multiply states, union, but let us say that we also have the high representative, the foreign minister, consolidating the function of the european union, something we have all been working on. so we certainly support the fact that not only should regional programmes remain, but as the commissioner knows parliament is very keen on these programmes which have perhaps produced better results. thank you all for this discussion.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased and proud that the european parliament is examining the subject of the social market economy and is deciding on concrete proposals to give effective support to this sector. the purpose of my report is threefold. the first: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts. 10% of european enterprises belong to this sector and also 9 and 10% of employment. it is a reality made up of different actors - cooperatives, mutual funds, foundations, social enterprises, associations - that share specific values and contribute significantly to gdp. so, to give a clearer and more transparent institutional visibility. second purpose: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a different way of doing business, producing, consuming and employing people, a different but fully fledged way of doing business in the market. it is a way of life characterized by certain distinctive features which must not be reduced to the bare minimum and which essentially consist in the desire to associate and reconcile production and work with the values of solidarity, responsibility and the dignity of the person, also in the world of work. some people say, and i think this is very effective, that these companies operate with capital but not for capital. these are concepts which are part of the ideal of the european union based on the delors' thinking because we have often recognized the social economy as the keystone of the european social model, but little has been done in practice. today is also the most appropriate time to rediscover the relevance of these enterprises, because the current crisis in production has revealed that many traditional economic actors are very fragile, very weak and sometimes very unfavourable. this world of the social economy is more closely linked to the territory, the real economy and the individual, and is therefore protected, as it has always been, from the temptation to speculate. it's also an industry that has very different subjects, which have a lot to do with welfare as well. it's also called the social world, the pole of social utility, and it can help, i think, the sustainability of our social systems in times of constraint. third purpose: i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. i am only making a few suggestions very briefly. first, definitions must be clarified to understand accurately the profiles and definitions of these very different subjects. it is also essential to record the contribution of this sector correctly in the national accounts of different countries. it does not belong to the capitalist economy, nor to the public economy, and therefore needs a definition of its own. the commission has done something in this respect with a manual, but it is absolutely necessary to implement it. and in this direction i think that the world of academia, research, universities can contribute. finally, what legislative initiatives, if any, are needed. several things have been done - the statutes of the cooperative, the statutes of the foundation - and i have seen that the commission has resumed consultation. so, you have to figure out what it takes and whether you need to continue down this path. we do not want to see the bureaucratization of an industry that lives on idealism, motivation and freedom. but where community rules are needed, or were needed, it would be good to have them. finally, a call for involvement in the social dialogue of this world. at what level and where should a consultation and dialogue centre with the european commission be located? and finally, as direct support in european programmes: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social economy. we leave it to the commission to assess this too. finally, i would like to thank the national associations, the european networks which have helped me a great deal in this work, the parliament's intergroup on the social economy, which is working well, the shadows, and also commissioners verheugen and špidla, with whom the dialogue has been quite frank and intense. we entrust this report, which has seen a large participation of social forces and associations, to the commission, in the hope that even in the short time available for the end of the legislature, we can find the time, mr commissioner, who represents the whole commission here, to consolidate some initiatives, to give a concrete sign, so that the next parliament, the next commission, can start not from scratch but from something concrete.
in writing. non-profit-making, the experience of the non-profit sector, is a growing phenomenon in europe. in a time of economic and financial crisis with strong social repercussions, strengthening an economy based on social benefit rather than profit is a strategic choice that allows to mitigate its negative effects and to continue the development of the lisbon strategy, achieving one of the primary objectives, namely the vocation to social responsibility. secondly, the social economy is able to activate action at local level, becoming a reliable partner for public administrations that need to design interventions for vulnerable sections of the population. the european parliament should therefore intervene on the basis of the normative and statistical recognition of the realities which are at work and which are rooted in the european fabric, starting from their capacity to achieve social objectives. a subsidiary vision which is a fundamental contribution to the european social model.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the rapporteur, mr van den burg, and the whole of parliament will support this proposal to amend the provisions of the vat directive. finally, a proposal which will guarantee equal opportunities for all member states and improve the functioning of the internal market with regard to reduced vat rates and which also intelligently respects subsidiarity, since it leaves the states the possibility of applying reduced vat rates to labour-intensive and locally provided services, such as those of greatest social significance relating to housing, personal assistance, etc., and more generally applicable to the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore share the rapporteur's hope that this instrument will provide a tax system that promotes employment, increases productivity and reduces the underground economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when the european parliament set up vat, it has always followed its evolution, both in terms of its harmonization between the member states, its adjustment to cope with economic circumstances and the transitional derogations granted to the countries which have recently joined the european union. the approach, although global, has thus been characterized by the necessary flexibility in the application of the rates in question, to take account both of the specific nature of the productive sectors and of economic and social considerations. the proposal under consideration, however, is designed to extend the scope of reduced vat rates to a number of services, such as labour-intensive services, catering, local services, housing construction and sales, and services for disadvantaged groups. far from the objective of harmonizing vat in all the member states, the directive in question, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, seeks to ensure equal opportunities for all the member states, while at the same time giving them autonomy in fixing reduced rates. it follows that consumers would thus be induced to transfer some activities carried out in the context of the local or underground economy to the official economy, thus promoting economic growth without distorting the functioning of the internal market. it should be remembered, however, that for most of the services in question, a reduced rate is already available, albeit only in a limited number of member states and for a limited period of time. however, the debate on the application of reduced rates for the protection of the environment and energy saving is still open, and the commission will have to provide specific assessments on this subject, given the importance of these sectors in the european union's economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to extend the scope of reduced vat to certain labour-intensive services, such as catering, maintenance and construction, represents an important opportunity for positive economic effects on the market and on employment, especially in a period of such serious economic crisis, such as the one we are experiencing. there will be no change in competition, but the opportunity will be to give a small boost to production and stimulate consumption, to create new jobs and to help businesses and households. in my view, further extensions of the scope of the reduced vat, for example to include so-called 'green services', would be desirable, precisely to promote environmental policies. but as far as the text we are going to vote on is concerned, the proposal to reduce vat on diapers and childcare services is particularly welcome. this parliament has on several occasions called on the commission and the member states to coordinate macroeconomic and social policies more closely, precisely in order to respond to the increase in new poverty. we cannot help remembering that at the moment about 17% of european families live below the poverty line and one in five children is poor. the council has now the floor, and i hope it will approve this proposal as soon as possible and open a wider and more ambitious debate to promote tax policies that are tailored to the needs of businesses, but also to the needs of families, and perhaps to extend the vat reduction to all children's products.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. (the sitting was suspended at 10.10 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 10.35 a.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i propose that in paragraph 12 'the components' be added before 'the social economy' and that 'as a third sector' be deleted, as it is written here in the list.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fourteen years after the barcelona conference and the start of the euro-mediterranean partnership, the budget is completely unsatisfactory. we are not going to discuss the results so far in relation to the financial commitments made. i believe that this is a legitimate right of this parliament and that it is the duty of the commission to be accountable. we are not going to pretend that we do not know that civil rights are not fully protected in that euro-african-asian region. that equal opportunities is a practice that is still lacking? that respect for religious freedom is still a wish? that economic and social growth is still gaining ground, while human trafficking is growing dramatically, fuelling the flow of illegal immigrants, especially on the coasts of my country, southern italy, and sicily? in these circumstances, the opening of the free zone, rather than being an opportunity, is increasing the gap between rich and poor regions. in conclusion, madam president, although my group is perplexed by paragraphs 29 and 36, it voted in favour of the report on the barcelona process as an act of hope amidst scepticism.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr onesta on the revision of the rules of procedure for petitions. i agree with my colleague that what is needed is not a substantial change in the existing rules but an improvement in their transparency and clarity. i also believe that it is necessary to stress the importance of the technological factor, which has made enormous progress in recent years, but that it is also necessary not to neglect respect for the individual and his fundamental right to privacy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on the community legal framework for the european research infrastructure (eri), because i believe that the member states of the european union must adopt a coordinated approach to the development of a unified research policy, also considering that the existing national and international legislative framework is inadequate to the ambitious objectives that this union has set itself in terms of research. i also believe that it is critical to act to improve the university-industry research interface, which is still too weak in some countries of the european union, including italy. finally, i believe that research itself should be characterized by greater interconnection between public and private researchers, because only through collaboration between all the parties involved can research be a harbinger of real and balanced technological progress.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr morillon on the amendments to the convention on multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, established by the convention, plays a valuable role in the conservation and efficient use of fisheries-related resources and aims to promote cooperation between the states concerned by the convention. i am in favour of the amendments to the convention as they allow for the establishment of dispute settlement procedures and the implementation of better management of fishery resources, and thus as a useful tool for the development of the fisheries sector.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour. the future of children requires and deserves attention. children themselves ask us to consult them and want their opinions and perspectives, their hopes and dreams to be part of the effort to build a world that is right for them. in pursuing the millennium development goals, we will need to give greater attention, in all our strategies, initiatives and funding decisions, to priorities set by children for children. during my mandate i have had the opportunity to travel to third world countries and to work with large ngos such as unicef and i realise that there are many priority actions to be tackled. if we want to achieve lasting improvements for children, we must concentrate on the root causes of violations of their rights, but above all we must work with all the voluntary associations which have for years been well established in these realities which are very different from our europe, from the cultural, economic, structural and political points of view.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs kinnock on children and the european union's external policy. the protection of minors is certainly a very important objective of the european union both within and outside the community. over the years, the community institutions have attached increasing importance to the protection of children's rights, which must be kept in mind when adopting policies. i therefore support the idea of involving children more closely in the decision-making process, starting at the local level where they have the greatest opportunity to influence issues that are close to their hearts. i also believe that in order to enable children to exercise their rights fully, action at global level is needed on the following priorities: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to reduce poverty, combat discrimination and improve the level and quality of education. to achieve these ambitious goals, it will be essential to devote more intellectual and financial resources.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr cottigny on the information and consultation of workers in the european community. directive 2002/14/ec has been a major step forward in the democratic involvement of workers in decisions affecting the undertakings in which they work, particularly at a time like the present when economic difficulties are forcing many undertakings to take critical decisions such as restructuring and relocation. however, it has been rightly noted that the directive has not been correctly transposed in several countries, where rather reductive provisions have been adopted, whereas it would be important to make an effort to harmonise legislation between the member states of the union in order to be able to guarantee european companies the same tools to anticipate and prepare for changes in the economic environment in which they operate. to this end, it would also be appropriate to extend the directive's scope to all european smes, including the smallest in terms of number of persons employed, so that no one is disadvantaged.
in writing. - mr president, i agree and fully support my colleague mrs toia's emphasis on the role of the social economy as a creator of quality jobs and on strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion by promoting active citizenship, solidarity and a vision of the economy based on democratic values, which puts people first, supports sustainable development and technological innovation. i am fully aware that the wealth and stability of a society depend on its diversity and that the social economy makes a significant contribution to this diversity, thereby strengthening the european social model, and in this sense offering a business model that is specific to it, thus contributing to a stable and lasting growth of the social economy, i support my colleague in her view that the social economy can only develop fully if it can benefit from appropriate political, legislative and operational conditions and conditions. i would like to remind the house that the commission has already recognised the concept of the social economy on several occasions, and i agree with the call made by the honourable member for the commission to promote the social economy through its new policies and to defend the concept of 'doing business in a different way' inherent in the social economy, whose main strength is not economic profitability but social profitability.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs toia on the social economy. i agree with the rapporteur that the social economy is becoming increasingly important in the current economic situation, which often calls for responding to needs that traditional forms of economy are unable to meet. the social economy certainly plays an important role in achieving the objectives of the european union, such as improving employment, social cohesion and strengthening equal opportunities policies. i also agree that the social economy must, in any case, be confronted with the ever-changing developments of the market in order to develop effective strategies for achieving its objectives. this can be achieved by networking among stakeholders and by enhancing cooperation and exchange of experience at all levels: the european union is a global, regional, national and transnational organisation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my positive opinion of the report by mrs tzampazi on the subject of mental health. i agree with the rapporteur that mental health is as important as physical health in terms of the quality of life. mental health needs to be pursued in both young people and adults and the elderly, with a particular focus on the latter, who are more at risk of degenerative diseases, and on women, who are more at risk of depression. in order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary, in particular, to implement actions to combat social exclusion and marginalisation, which can contribute to creating mental distress, together with actions to promote mental health in the workplace, where people are exposed to various pressures and stressful situations, which also contribute to the development of mental disorders.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr gyürk on the evaluation of the national energy efficiency action plans. the problem of energy supply in europe is well known and is closely linked to that of energy efficiency. the waste of energy in the countries of the union is an unacceptable luxury which must be tackled as soon as possible if we are not to suffer even more serious consequences in the future. i agree that at present the national action plans have been only partially implemented, with partial results. i therefore believe that a greater commitment is needed from both the public and private sectors, and from individual citizens. the importance of smes in europe will make it essential to involve them in the action plans. moreover, given their greater exposure to energy price increases, these companies could benefit greatly from better implementation of energy efficiency and would contribute significantly to the achievement of the overall targets.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by the honourable member on applied research in the field of the common fisheries policy. the careful and responsible exploitation of natural resources is becoming increasingly important as the evidence of excessive quantitative and qualitative depletion of resources has been evident over the years. it is therefore essential to think about the protection of the marine environment and to adopt an approach based on a careful assessment of ecosystems, taking into account in an integrated way all activities affecting european seas. this attitude will certainly have a positive effect on the balanced development of both the economy and society and, in the medium to long term, on the overall competitiveness of the system. i therefore consider it a matter of priority that applied research in the fisheries sector should receive more funding, to be sought also under the 7th research framework programme, as provided for in the past by the previous framework programmes. this is also to enable a network of research centres to be set up which can make joint use of specialised infrastructures and exchange information and data useful to their activities.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mrs cederschiöld on the introduction of a european professional card for service providers. i believe that despite the existence of directive 2005/36/ec to stimulate the mobility of professionals, this market is still essentially national and that, more generally, in the european union, the mobility of workers remains very low, which is an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market and to the pursuit of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. in the light of the above, i consider it of the utmost importance that european professional cards, which already exist in some cases, be extended to all professions, including non-regulated ones, in order to promote their recognition in the member states and thus the possibility for consumers to have easier access to services from foreign suppliers, thus contributing to a greater integration of the european internal market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs attwooll on the action taken by the union on whaling. i agree with the need to ban the hunting of this mammal, whose survival is threatened and for which decisive action must be taken to preserve it. the existing moratorium on whaling has so far produced good results in terms of increasing the population of the whale, although many major countries have not ratified it and hence the hunting of this animal continues. i therefore agree with the commission's call for new proposals to help achieve better results. i also think it is important to draw the distinction which has always been drawn between commercial hunting and hunting for subsistence purposes, which is still practised by some indigenous peoples. the latter is rightly excluded from the moratorium, as is scientific research on whales, provided that it is carried out with the need to safeguard the species in mind.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour. the community's participation in the observatory is motivated above all by the fact that its activities contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the european audiovisual sector. for example, the distribution of audiovisual material is too often hampered by a lack of knowledge of the differences between national legislation. the observatory helps to overcome these obstacles by providing expertise and systematic information to all stakeholders. unfortunately, however, the regulations adopted by the european community are often not sufficiently publicized within the italian territory. this requires greater legislative transparency, particularly in the areas of copyright and consumer protection, and tax and labour law. finally, it is essential to strengthen the observatory's capacity to follow new developments, such as new consumption patterns of audiovisual products (in particular the internet and video games).
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr belet on the european union's participation in the european audiovisual observatory. i consider the work of the observatory to be very important, since it is the only organisation that collects and distributes information on the european audiovisual industry and therefore has the important task of stimulating new developments in the audiovisual field, which have become more important in recent years with the increasing use of digital technology. through its market studies and analysis, it also provides valuable help to policy makers and the audiovisual industry itself. i also agree that the observatory should further extend its field of activity to include the study of tax and labour legislation in the audiovisual sector, thereby strengthening cooperation with the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against illegal immigration must, in my view, be one of the priorities of the european union. i believe that the restoration of legal conditions in the labour market is necessary both in principle, for the sake of respect for european citizens and for the sake of respect for the citizens of third countries themselves, who are sometimes not even guaranteed the minimum safety conditions at the workplace. that is why i voted in favour of mr fava's report on sanctions against employers who employ third-country nationals who are staying illegally. i believe that these measures are consistent with the desire to build a more transparent, fairer and more homogeneous single european labour market. i agree with my colleague that employers who exploit immigrant nationals should be punished by financial, administrative and, in some cases, criminal sanctions, commensurate with the extent and gravity of the exploitation and that it is up to the member states to monitor the most at-risk workplaces and to provide mechanisms to facilitate the reporting of exploitation of undeclared work. it should not be forgotten that growth objectives in terms of employment and, more generally, in economic terms can only be achieved by promoting full respect for the law in the labour market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work done by mrs jeggle and i vote in favour of her report on the need to collect statistics on crop products. i share the rapporteur's view, which has also been expressed by the commission, that statistics on crop products are of fundamental importance for the evaluation of the common agricultural policy and the management of the markets for these products within the european union. i also agree with the rapporteur's argument that additional burdens and costs must be kept within reasonable limits so that the benefits in terms of simplifying bureaucratic procedures and facilitating and improving the quality of legislation are not outweighed by the excessively high costs of the proposed operations. i believe that the report is perfectly in line with the action programme for reducing administrative burdens within the european union set out in the communication of 24 january 2007 and i therefore reiterate my support for it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr szájer on aromatized wines, aromatized wine-based drinks and aromatized wine-based cocktails. i believe that the wine sector is very important for the economy of the european union, considering that some countries, such as italy, france and spain, are among the world's leading wine producers and export their prized products all over the world. i therefore welcome the proposal to establish certain rules for the definition of the categories of wine products mentioned, so that the high quality of european production is always recognisable and identifiable.
in writing. mr president, my decision to vote against the resolution is based on the fact that the same concepts are being repeated against which we as a group have already spoken in the final vote of the temporary committee on trade and industry. i express this view as coordinator of the ppe group for the previous tdip temporary committee and for the follow-up working party in the libe committee. the committee decided to send a questionnaire to each member state to clarify the developments following the european parliament's inquiry. but as you are well aware, no answers have been given to these questions. not even after his written plea. i do not think it would be wise to vote for a new text which purports to bring new conclusions when we have nothing new to make public. i have the impression that this is still a leftwing electoral appeal rather than an attempt to achieve justice.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i intend to support, by my vote in favour, the resolution on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of persons. i believe it is extremely important to give full effect to the recommendations made by this parliament in the report of the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia, because the presence of secret detention centres, enforced disappearances and torture of detainees are not only in flagrant violation of international human rights law, the un convention on torture, the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights but cannot be tolerated in an international system where democracy and the rule of law prevail. i therefore welcome the call in the above-mentioned resolution to all member states to bring to light the abuses committed in this area in the name of the war on terrorism, because a genuine and effective fight against terrorism cannot itself be tainted by violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, against which it is precisely being waged.
in writing. − this report criticises the human rights situation in china, but it might also have mentioned the human rights situation in taiwan, which is exemplary. taiwan’s prosperous democracy, strengthened by constitutional protections and the rule of law, stands in stark contrast to the totalitarian communist dictatorship in china i echo the report’s words about the improvement in cross-straits relations. president ma ying-jeou is to be congratulated for bringing this about. the cfsp is inevitably limited in scope while it remains subject to national veto. nevertheless, i welcome the council’s recent expression of support for taiwan’s meaningful participation in international organisations. i hope the council and the other institutions will endorse taiwan’s ambition to be admitted as an observer to the world health assembly. it is morally wrong for taiwan to be excluded from a public health forum simply as a result of pressure from china. i therefore voted to approve this report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of this report. i believe that the idea of a euro-mediterranean partnership, which was born with the barcelona declaration of 1995, is ready to be put into practice in a more concrete and effective way than has been done so far. i am pleased that the rapporteur supports the decision to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the union for the mediterranean by highlighting the role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, because i firmly believe that the establishment of a serious and lasting partnership must go beyond the purely economic cooperation and financial support, which are undoubtedly important, to enable the objectives of peace and institutional stability as well as economic prosperity and development to be achieved. i share the rapporteur's hope that the strengthening of euro-mediterranean relations will give impetus to the development of an area of collective and individual security that goes beyond the area covered by the agreement and that the european union will be able to contribute to the promotion of the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, mutual understanding between different peoples and cultures, which, unfortunately, are still often seriously violated even in the countries with which the union has regular economic relations. in this sense, i hope that the instruments which will be made available will be commensurate with the ambitious objectives which this partnership sets itself.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour. at such a delicate time, i believe that closer cooperation in neighbourhood and partnership relations is needed to create a favourable environment in the immediate vicinity of the european union, as the main objective of the enp states. i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to set up a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection, and that the european commission has been able to provide the necessary information to the member states. it also urged the commission and national, regional and local authorities to promote twinning programmes between cities and regions and to pursue more ambitiously the annual action programmes on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, in line with the objectives set out in the enp action plans, calling for greater efforts to secure the commitment of partner governments to act in these areas.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mr szymanski on the revision of the european neighbourhood instrument. i think it is important to admit that in some of the countries concerned by this instrument, no progress has been made towards the initial objectives of promoting democracy, stability and good governance, economic integration and convergence with the policies of the european union. while the union's assistance and closeness can act as an incentive to the dissemination and application of good practice, it is true that the conditionality of such assistance and the financial aid granted by the union must be complied with. in this respect, i agree with my colleague that the sectoral and general budget support provided for under the enpi should be granted only to governments which are able to use it in a transparent, effective and responsible way and where it constitutes a real incentive; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr berman on the financing of non-oda measures in countries covered by regulation (ec) no 1905/2006. i agree with the rapporteur that the legislative proposal put forward by parliament is necessary to ensure that even countries which do not qualify as official development aid, but which are open to promoting political, economic and governance values similar to those of the community and with which the community has strategic relations, are supported in projects worthy of attention such as the establishment of partnerships between economic, academic and scientific actors, especially in areas of great importance such as scientific and technological research, transport, energy and the environment. i believe that this can only be to the benefit not only of the countries concerned and the european union but also of the entire international community, without prejudice to the correct assessment of the eligibility for funding and the validity of the project in question from time to time.
in writing. - mr president, i support the report by mr hanne dahl and i support, citing article 1 of the publications office of the european union, that it is 'an interinstitutional body which must ensure, under the best possible conditions, the publication of the publications of the institutions of the european community and of the european union'. i agree with your colleague's request that the european institutions should amend the legal basis for interinstitutional bodies so that there can be a clear allocation of administrative and political responsibility, as it is difficult to identify at the moment. i believe that the use of information is the main means of bringing the european union closer to its citizens and, in this respect, multilingualism must be the essential tool for achieving the objectives of the publications office through the simultaneous publication of the official journal in all the official languages of the european union, so that it is clearly understandable to all, extending this principle to all the activities carried out by the publications office.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mr dahl's report on the organization and operation of the publications office of the european union. i agree with the view that the previous decision, dated 20 july 2000, should be replaced, in particular in order to take due account of the observations made by the european parliament during the discharge procedure for the financial year 2001. i believe that the report is also useful in clarifying the allocation of political and administrative responsibilities within the publications office of the european union and that such clarification is necessary to ensure that the office carries out its tasks in a correct, smooth and efficient manner.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we feel that on this very important occasion - the 50th anniversary of the tibetan people's uprising and the escape of the dalai lama - it is really important that our parliament should take a decision in a resolution and not just in a debate. it 's not the first time . this parliament has always stood with the dalai lama and the cause of the freedom of the tibetan people and on this occasion we cannot back down, not least because the situation is not improving. the situation is steadily worsening and we are still subject to the very recent intimidation by the chinese government regarding the freedom of tibetans. so i think it's important that we not only talk, but we decide.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we voted a resolution supporting the dalai lama's line in the negotiations with china, in particular non-violence and autonomy. china has blown these negotiations, accusing the dalai lama of being violent and the source of the violence and of being for independence and not autonomy. right . it would be quite inexplicable if this parliament did not intervene today, on the 50th anniversary of the lhasa uprising, not only in defence of the dalai lama and non-violence, but also in defence of our own positions and our own dignity as a parliament. no further items are requested to be removed from the agenda: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why we are calling for a resolution to be voted on and not just a debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy the telecommunications authority, an independent authority, has for the 43rd time taken a decision against the state television for violating the right of italian citizens to be informed about the initiatives of the radicals. in italy, since the elections - now ten months later - there are no electoral tribunals, as required by law, which have been illegally suspended. in italy, the parliamentary committee responsible for monitoring radio and television does not meet, again in violation of the law. it is not just a berlusconi problem: it is a problem of a regime of the right, of the centre, of the left which is attentive to the civil and political rights of italian citizens. with mr pannella we shall have to leave our work tomorrow and go to italy to try to create forms of non-violent resistance against this new form of denial of democracy. we will send a message to all members of parliament to explain in detail the nature of these violations and to ask for your support and help.
thank you, mr davies. i will take your request.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the book by albert camus, the plague is unnecessarily heralded by the spell that comes to die at our feet. we do not want to be needlessly witches who come to announce the anti-democratic, violent, anti-european plague which is now again wreaking havoc in rome, brussels, jerusalem and paris. cappato has already said why we will leave our work here tomorrow to take up a militant struggle for european resistance and democratic resistance in our country. the european parliament is celebrating 30 years: if you think back 30 years, you have something to worry about. we fight, we don't worry.
the debate is closed.
the joint debate is scheduled for: - the report by mr lászló surján, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the budgetary procedure 2010 - section iii - commission (2009/2005 (bud)) (a6-0111/2009), and - the report by mr vladimír maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the budgetary procedure 2010 - sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii and ix (2009/2004 (bud)) (a6-0057/2009)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european private company regulation which we are about to adopt completes the framework of the types of company which adopt european discipline. the final text is in some parts marked by the text voted on in the economic affairs committee. it is regrettable that we did not take the opportunity to ask the commission to be more daring, to go further in order to provide for a specific taxation system, a special accounting system, uniform rules in the event of liquidation, insolvency, transformation, merger, division, dissolution and nullity. there are still too many areas left in national company law with overlapping levels and multiplying costs. if we share the importance of creating a common european system and if we want to avoid opportunistic territorial dislocations, then, now that the framework has been completed, after the european society and the european cooperative society, it will be useful to plan to reopen it to bring it to a more advanced level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must solve this small business crisis in a genuinely european way. we are seeing a dying of small and medium-sized enterprises across the continent and this dying is due to lack of access to credit. the problem is that banks do not give any credit to business and it is also true that attempts by some governments to finance banks so that they, in turn, finance small businesses, are proving to be a failure because no one knows what debts are actually hitting banks at this moment. i therefore propose that the national states, by nationalising their national banks, should promote the printing of money, or of vouchers corresponding to money, to finance small businesses. this type of attempt has been made recently by the republic of taiwan, which issued vouchers, which are practically equivalent to money, and gave them, in the form of vouchers to individuals, to citizens, in the republic of taiwan. this has basically allowed the issuance of 3 billion dollars or euros in the republic of taiwan. we have to do the same thing: we must give credit to small businesses by issuing money as states, not on debt but on credit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the small business act was conceived and born in a different context from the present, in a time of growth and development. we are passing it today in parliament in a very different context, whereas smes are suffering great hardship and difficulty because they are being hit by the storm of the production and financial crisis. so the first meaning of our approval in parliament, i think, must be this: we want to tell smes that parliament and the european institutions are standing by them and want to strengthen the will and the resilience that small and mediumsized enterprises in europe are showing today in the face of the storm of the crisis. we want to strengthen it by prioritising this support and by saying something concrete: the call for more flexible legislation, the call for the provision of instruments which will allow a less hostile environment for the activities of these entities. the second point i think we need to make is to help smes in what is the most critical factor for them today, which is access to credit, access and availability. the funds made available by the eib are not enough: we must say - and we will say it tomorrow - that we want to do more to give credit to small and mediumsized enterprises.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year the number of refugees in the world has increased and we are already at about 12 million. if we add up the internally displaced, we have more than 26 million people in need of protection worldwide. the reason for this situation is that there are still wars on the planet. there are now four million refugees and displaced persons from iraq, and it is clear that these refugees are the result of wars that our countries have also wanted. the creation of a common european asylum system is necessary because it is an obligation for our rule of law to ensure homogeneity in the reception of the european union, all the more so if we consider that there are member states which do not yet have an organic asylum law. i regret that the harmonization of asylum procedures has been delayed by two years, so that we will have harmonization in 2012. the harmful disparity between countries, between asylum systems, must be ended. it is paradoxical that at the moment there are some third country nationals whose refugee status is granted at rates ranging from 0% to 90%, depending on the member state receiving the application. the harmonization of standards must result in a high level of protection throughout the european union and not in a leveling down. the institution of asylum is an essential aspect of our democracy and the protection of human rights, and it is unacceptable that it has been seriously undermined in recent years, because the needs of asylum seekers and the principle of non-refoulement guaranteed by international conventions have not always been guaranteed. the european union should provide for mechanisms at the external borders to identify asylum seekers and to ensure access to its territory for persons eligible for international protection, including in the context of border control operations. that is why we think it is appropriate to review the role of frontex, which often treats asylum seekers as irregular migrants. the european parliament, in this report, asks that frontex provide precise data on the number of asylum seekers detected during the operations carried out and also on the fate of persons intercepted and returned to countries of transit or countries of origin. the correct application of international conventions must be ensured, including cooperation agreements with third countries. we cannot make agreements with countries that have not signed the geneva convention, and many member countries do: i am thinking of italy, which has signed an agreement with libya on the management of migration flows, and which does not intend to sign the geneva convention on refugees. we are very pleased - and we have stressed this and we want to stress this in this report - that the court of justice has annulled the article of the 'procedure directive' which concerned the establishment of the concept of 'safe third countries' and the common list of safe third countries. we believe that there can be no such thing as a 'safe third country', that the concept is inappropriate, because all citizens can be persecuted even in countries with high standards of democracy. asylum seekers are vulnerable people who must be provided with appropriate reception conditions. member states may not detain a person solely on the ground that he or she is an applicant for international protection. i therefore believe that asylum seekers should not in principle be detained, and unfortunately in many member states detention of asylum seekers is still a reality, because of their illegal entry into the territory. unfortunately, and i conclude, there is no other way to enter the european union. and this is the paradox: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. childcare is not a concession. asylum is a duty of countries and a right of people fleeing war.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i will be brief, but i listened carefully to all the speeches and i am very grateful to the european parliament for its support for this effort to give asylum policy the full scope it should have for all the people who are persecuted in the world. we have a duty, a moral imperative, as martine roure used to say. i would like to make a few points. first of all, some of you have mentioned frontex, mr catania in particular. i should like to point out that frontex now has a liaison officer with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. this is really an effort by frontex to get a good grasp of the problems affecting asylum seekers, and the commission has proposed rules to better define frontex's responsibilities in maritime actions. we are currently discussing this with the member states. that is an important element, indeed. i would like to return to the request for solidarity that has been expressed by many of you, and i am thinking in particular of mr busuttil, who has mentioned the difficult situation in malta in this respect. it is true that in the action plan on asylum the commission proposed to study the possibilities of distributing these asylum seekers among the member states on a voluntary basis. the discussion with the member states was launched in the autumn with an informal document proposing several alternatives for implementing the principle of solidarity in the field of asylum. i must say that it is not easy to get the majority of member states to agree on a mechanism for allocating refugees among them. we will nevertheless launch a study on the impact and possibilities of this type of distribution at union level. i would also like to say that we are ready to finance projects relating to this distribution, to this resettlement, under the european refugee fund. i shall have the opportunity to repeat this in the member states i shall visit, which are often very popular with asylum seekers. in short, i believe that we are at the beginning of a long process, but one which is essential if we really want this europe to retain in its values a strong identity, an identity as a region of welcome for all those who, in the world, are suffering and are waiting for our help. i would like to thank the european parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for all your speeches, which are particularly valuable to your commissioner.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the members who have spoken for their support for this report, commissioner barrot for his support and also for the work that the commission is doing in view of the amendments to certain directives, and in particular the procedure and reception directive, which demonstrate the commission's willingness to improve the common asylum system. parliament is a co-legislator in this area and i believe that we must play our part in harmonizing asylum procedures upwards, towards a system of harmonization which has wide margins of reception, improves the standards of reception in the member states, making it ever more supportive. i believe that this parliament has played an important role in visiting the administrative detention centres in europe. we visited many of them - mrs roure was rapporteur for the final report - and we were able to see how often the right to asylum was violated in the member states, how often the normal reception conditions, the right to health, to legal assistance, and even to information on potential asylum seekers were not guaranteed. this is because mixed flows have been managed by putting the fight against irregular immigration and the protection of the external borders ahead of the need to welcome and in particular to receive asylum seekers. i agree with what some of my colleagues have said, particularly on the need to review the dublin regulation, particularly on the need to ensure a solidarity mechanism between countries for burden sharing, but also a solidarity mechanism towards asylum seekers, so that they are also given the right to be transferred to another place so that their application can be accepted. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that some of my colleagues have raised the issue of border control. i think that's a fundamental flaw in the reasoning. the issue of border protection and the right of asylum are two issues that are not compatible with each other. we must guarantee the right to asylum, as it is a fundamental right which must be guaranteed by the european union.
in writing. while in italy the government has had a non-linear approach to the roma issue, and at times very questionable in terms of humanitarian principles, in europe it has always worked to maintain the difficult balance between integration and security. the european parliament's resolution on the social situation of the roma and their access to the european labour market goes in this direction. it is clear that the repeated use of emergency legislative measures to address roma-related problems indicates an inability to address a not new phenomenon. instead, organic approaches and long-term coordinated solutions are needed in education, health care and especially labour market policies because employment and education in turn promote social acceptance and integration. europe calls for an end to the discriminatory practice of evicting roma from camps by developing concrete social housing projects that can address the housing problem of this community. in short, we need coherent policy choices which, combining solidarity and responsibility, allow us to deal with an emergency that otherwise risks getting out of hand. there is a proper awareness that this is a difficult road to travel, but there are no alternatives to these routes.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i am pleased that we are discussing today the proposal for a recast of the directive on industrial emissions and i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr krahmer, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their excellent work on this dossier. i would also like to thank the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights for its positive contribution. in recent weeks the commission has gathered reliable evidence that the current directive on integrated pollution prevention and control is not being sufficiently implemented and that industrial emissions remain at excessively high levels. this situation has caused serious negative effects on the environment and the health of european citizens. it also distorts competition between european industries. this unacceptable situation must be brought to an end. the best available techniques are a key component of the integrated approach on which the directive is based. these techniques have significant environmental and economic benefits. in principle, they reduce emissions and limit the use of resources, thus contributing to the long-term improvement of the security of energy supply of the european union. they also provide incentives for eco-innovation, which is essential for european industry to be able to meet future global demand for environmental technologies. to take full advantage of the advantages of best available techniques, their application framework needs to be strengthened and improved. the commission proposal is aimed at this. it clarifies and upgrades the role of best available techniques reference documents, so-called brefs, in the implementation of legislation. this will bring the conditions for licensing businesses across the european union closer together and, by extension, bring competition conditions closer together. brefs shall be drawn up through a transparent process with the broad involvement of member states, industry and other relevant actors. the efforts required for their preparation and approval are considerable. we must support the process of adopting them and the institution of brefs in general. brefs will thus be able to play a greater role in setting the conditions for the granting of licences to industrial enterprises, which will result in our industrial plants meeting the highest possible environmental requirements set by european union legislation. the commission proposal provides the necessary flexibility for deviations from the brefs, provided of course that this is justified by local circumstances. however, detailed justification and documentation of any deviation is necessary to avoid any abuse. at the same time, minimum mandatory requirements should be laid down at european union level for certain industrial sectors with particularly serious environmental impacts. in addition, few minimum standards have already been established for sectors such as large combustion plants or waste incinerators. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although mandatory minimum requirements may be considered useful for certain industrial sectors, it is not certain that the setting of minimum standards is necessary or appropriate for all sectors. minimum standards should be established only if and when they are necessary and justified from an environmental point of view. a typical example is the large combustion plant sector, which is responsible for a significant share of air pollution. the best available techniques are far from being properly applied in this particular sector. for this reason, the commission has proposed new minimum requirements for large combustion plants based on the conclusions of the relevant bref. they are expected to be implemented in 2016. these measures will make a significant contribution to achieving the relevant objectives of the thematic strategy on air pollution in an economically viable manner. moreover, the net benefit of these requirements at both european union and national level outweighs the related costs. finally, in addition to improving the implementation of the directive, the main objective of its recast is to simplify legislation and reduce administrative costs for both industry and the competent authorities, always in line with the principles of the european union's programme to improve legislation. the proposal therefore merges seven existing legislative acts into a single directive. this will also improve the clarity and consistency of the legislation for both member states and businesses. the benefits of this simplification are manifold. reducing pollution from industrial installations is a key priority for both environmental and economic reasons. the proposal submitted will simplify the existing legislation and at the same time strengthen the framework for the application of best available techniques. this will further contribute to improving environmental protection and the sustainability of european industry. i therefore look forward to hearing your views on this important proposal and the constructive dialogue that will follow.
i believe that this directive is, as has been said, the most important instrument for controlling industrial pollution that this parliament has discussed since the climate and energy package. the time is probably not the most fortunate, because of the financial crisis, which is putting pressure on the industrial system and which has therefore led to excessive lobbying by companies towards parliamentary groups, worried about the financial implications of this directive, as of the previous climate-energy package. we are comforted by the fact that we are still at first reading and that therefore perhaps some corrections and improvements will still be possible to recover at second reading. i have to say to mr krahmer: it wasn't an easy process. the rapporteur, mr krahmer, criticised the position of the epp, which called into question some of the compromises. but i would like to point out that 60 amendments have been tabled, of which less than a third were tabled by members of the european people's party. so there is a widespread desire in the european parliament to discuss some of the relevant points of this directive and unfortunately there has been no meeting between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur in the last few days to discuss the 60 amendments. we must not forget that the directive arises from the fact that the previous directive has not been easy to implement in the member states until now. we have seen an excessive diversification in the control and analysis regime which, as mr krahmer said, needs to be corrected. but the european commission also needs to make a greater effort. brefs have too long processing times and therefore do not ensure transparency in the application of the directive. it is true that there is a very strong process of collaboration and involvement of industry, but a more rapid periodic approval of brefs also ensures greater protection of the health of citizens. i would also add that there has certainly been little investment by industrialists in the past: i believe that, since too many people in europe are getting sick and dying from air pollution caused by industrial emissions, we must take action with appropriate clean-up measures and a strong control and analysis system.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must first of all make it clear that i am speaking as a 'jolly', that is to say, in place of our shadow rapporteur who unfortunately was unable to attend, but i can express the united position of our group, which is in full support of the compromise, which is the fruit of work lasting more than a year. i would like to thank mr krahmer for his very important role and for his ability to listen, even by reviewing his initial positions. this compromise will lead to a high level of protection and will provide support for european industry, including through flexibility instruments. as has already been said, the focus of this summary, this agreement, is to consolidate and extend the application of bat, the best available techniques, by strengthening the rules and making them more transparent. the minimum requirements proposed for large combustion plants must be met in order to apply the bat and the air quality criteria to this sector. that is why, as far as we are concerned, we say that the amendments tabled in the plenary should not be supported, since they tend to weaken the compromise, in particular those aimed at reducing the scope of the ippc, the application of bat and the requirements for large combustion plants. i want to emphasize this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in the work we have done with the precision and participation of all the shadow rapporteurs, first of all the staff and the rapporteur himself, mr krahmer, whom i thank for his fairness and patience, we have affirmed full transparency in the adoption of the bat, the exchange of information, the publication of the operational conclusions of these documents on the internet. we have ensured that a participatory consultation process has been continued, following the path identified at the seville forum. this united path must not be lost and i think i would appeal to all the speakers to maintain the consistency we have shown in months of debate in the sun. i myself worked on the soil protection directive, a directive on which the council has unfortunately not yet taken a decision, and a directive which is indispensable to maintain the balance in the release of carbon into the atmosphere in a natural way, as commissioner dimas rightly pointed out recently. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the requirements of the directive are not linked to the additional obligations that will result from the future soil directive. i think that this is unacceptable, not because of the environment but because of the need to safeguard public health and prevent any abuse of public resources, the development of activities and the lives of the citizens of the union. there have been too many abuses in the past in my own country of derogating from the authorizations already provided for in the previous ippc directive, and this creates contradictions both from the environmental point of view and also from the point of view of industrial and market rules. my country has paid enough for unregulated industrial development, which bears the names of seveso, eternit, etc., with consequences for the territories and the people. finally, the limitation and inclusion of the performance of incinerators, in respect of which the controls should not be relaxed, is positive in order to prepare the overcoming of this practice for a zero waste society. and the amendments discussed by all the groups to allow for stricter limits on furans and dioxins are right. i think that from this point of view we must consolidate this debate with a vote in the house. it is therefore an important directive and i hope it will be adopted.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have participated in today’s debate. they have made a constructive contribution to it. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for his excellent hard work. before i close, i would like to say a few words on some of the key amendments that have been discussed today. firstly, i welcome your broad support for the thrust of the commission’s proposal and, in particular, for the strengthening of the application of best available techniques (bat) and the status of the bref documents. this is the cornerstone of the commission’s proposal. there are many amendments that are acceptable to the commission, at least in part or in principle. in particular, many of the amendments help to clarify the text of the commission’s proposal or to improve transparency in the development of the brefs and in the permitting and enforcement practices of member states. better information and participation of the public in these decisions is very welcome. i also share the concerns expressed on the need to avoid the misuse of flexibility in setting permit conditions. as i mentioned earlier, minimum requirements can be very useful and necessary tools to tackle specific problems where certain sectors have not taken the necessary steps to implement bat. however, the systematic setting of minimum requirements is not necessary and risks creating an additional administrative burden for little environmental gain. therefore, i consider that minimum standards should only be set where needed to achieve a better implementation of bat. in considering minimum requirements on large combustion plants, it is important to keep in mind the significant impacts that such operations have on the environment and on the health of european union citizens. bat for large combustion plants was agreed in 2006 and it is the commission’s view that the minimum criteria should be applied from 2016. we need to ensure that the measures put in place for the sector bring it into line with bat at the earliest opportunity and facilitate the achievement of the objectives set out in the thematic strategy on air pollution. another key element to ensure that the legislation is effective in its objectives is that of the provisions for compliance and enforcement measures. in the past we have identified some shortcomings in this regard and it is, therefore, of paramount importance that the new legislation sets clear provisions to ensure the law is properly implemented. for this reason, the commission’s proposal introduces minimum provisions for inspection, review of permit conditions and reporting of compliance. these changes will ensure the proper implementation of bat and reduce distortions in competition. the commission will be extremely vigilant on this issue. i would like to say a few words about the thresholds for intensive agricultural farms, mainly poultry. the same threshold is currently applied for all poultry, without taking into account the different types of species. the rearing of different species leads to different environmental impacts, in particular due to the different weight of the animals. the proposed new thresholds have been set on the basis of the environmental impact of the species concerned. the new thresholds would include a limited number of additional farms compared to the current scope, and would reduce ammonia emissions in a cost efficient manner to meet the objectives of the thematic strategy on air pollution, in some areas. i will provide parliament’s secretariat with a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments. commission’s position on amendments by parliament krahmer report (a6-0046/2009) the commission can support fully, in part, or in principle amendments 1, 5-8, 12-14, 16, 18-21, 27, 34-37, 40, 42-44, 46, 48-56, 58-62, 64-66, 68, 69, 71-73, 75 and 79. the amendments which the commission cannot support are amendments 2-4, 9-11, 15, 17, 22-26, 28-33, 38, 39, 41, 45, 47, 57, 63, 67, 70, 76-78, 80, 93, 97, 114, 115, 117, 129 and 133.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (recast) (com (2008) 0229 - c6-0184/2008 - 2008/0090 (cod)) (a6-0077/2009)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have one minute for the legal affairs committee and one for the green group, so i shall try to combine them, also because the two things are quite common in this case. mr president, we have had enough of this recasting debate in the legal affairs committee. i 'll say this right off the bat: we think that the use of recasting for this type of act was not a particularly brilliant decision, also because, as the commissioner said, the real issue is to understand how a regulation which has worked quite well, but which could be perfected, can actually be improved. the result, both in the use of this procedure and in the concrete proposals that have been made, is certainly a step backwards from reality. so that means we have to somehow run for cover, and running for cover with recasting is harder than with a full legislative mandate. the second thing i wanted to say is that it's useless to go around: i am glad that the commissioner is announcing the nice initiatives on transparency and openness, but the facts remain, and the facts are that the commission proposal excludes documents which are now open and transparent from the scope of this legislation. that is the reality, and it is so true that a number of member states, including your own, have made this clear, and have said that this is unacceptable. the problem is that if we want to improve legislation we cannot, all of us here, simply defend the existing legislation, because otherwise we run the serious risk of being less transparent, less comprehensible and also, let me say, less democratic.
i don't know the answer to that. we have two minutes in our agenda, but i am sure that these will not be your last words.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for not being able to hear the commissioner's reply. i think there is an important absence in this debate and that is the absence of the council, which was in fact an absence throughout the whole debate, including the committee. and that 's the bottom line . there is a concept of europe, particularly within the council, for which europe is the sum of governments, of national states, and therefore, when these governments discuss together, even with legislative power, these are confidential matters, so to speak, and the citizens must then see the final result of this. this is simply intolerable, when we know that there are powers of legislators in the european union and that the right to know is for citizens throughout the legislative process. as the judgment in the maurizio turco case has shown, citizens have a right to know the positions of national delegations within the council and also to know legal opinions. that is why we fully support the report by mr cashman, which is the translation of a conception of europe, of a conception of european democracy. i also think that michael should be supported in his attempt to make proposals that go beyond the commission's proposals. the european commission would be wrong to ask us to limit our legislative action to the proposals which the commission itself has put forward. i think the treaties also give us the right to extend our mandate. i hope that michael will accept our amendments, particularly on greater financial transparency, and i also believe that we as the european parliament should set a good example. i read today from the agencies that our decision to publish the attendance of members of parliament has nothing to do with this report but the attendance of members of parliament, a decision which we had taken in plenary, now seems to be having technical problems to do this before the european elections. there is no technical problem, because it is a job that can be done quickly and easily, and i hope that as a parliament we will set a good example in this as well as in the necessary positive amendments by the rapporteur to the commission's proposal for greater access to documents, and we hope that sooner or later we will hear something from the empty seats in the council, at least explain publicly what the reasons for resistance to our proposals are, have the courage to defend publicly an idea of a europe that should decide in secret on the legislative texts themselves, which i think would be absolutely unacceptable.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the members for an interesting debate and for their many valuable comments. regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 will now be updated to ‘version two’, one might say. it is important to point out again that we are not starting from scratch: we already have a good basis, and it is just a matter of improving on that. this will also be a version for the age of the internet, as was mentioned in the debate. electronic registers will now be included, and add to that active dissemination, as examples of these improvements. the ideal situation would, of course, be for us to disseminate information so actively that no requests for access have to be made since everything is already out there – with some exceptions, of course. i can give you one example of what can be done, which is that i have already made my own correspondence register available on the internet, so you can see my correspondence and documents. it is not possible for me to go through all the comments that were made during the debate, but i want to comment briefly on a few crucial points, one of which concerns the definition of documents under article 3. this is one of the articles of the commission’s proposal that have been most discussed and, i admit, most criticised. we maintain that the current definition leads to ambiguity and a risk of unpredictability and bad practice. is this post-it note a document, for example? mr cashman is saying it is, and according to the wide definition in the regulation, it could very well be so – as could the other scribbles i have here. sometimes it is not helpful to make a definition too broad. we still maintain a wide definition, but we will reduce the discretionary non-disclosure of documents. the definition that we propose is much wider than the notion of official documents often used in national legislation. it comes very close to the concept of information in the uk freedom of information act and in the dutch law on transparency, for example. the registration of documents is an obligation under internal commission rules, but these do not determine whether a document falls within the scope of the regulation. so we clarified and helped with the definition of documents. this will also help citizens to know what is it you can and should ask for in order to get full information. a more precise definition of documents means safer administration and more clarity for citizens. the court has ruled that documents relating to an ongoing investigation are manifestly covered by an exception to the right of access and, therefore, that those files are currently not acceptable and this does not constitute additional restriction of the right of access. in no member state do citizens have access to the files of the competition authorities – i just wanted to make that point. i also acknowledge that we could have explained and phrased things better in article 3. i believe we share the same goal, and thus it should also be possible to find a clear and unambiguous wording. this is an example of an area where we should be able to achieve a good compromise text. another fiercely discussed point is article 5(2) concerning access to member states’ documents. let me be clear that the commission’s intention has been to implement what the european court of justice has ruled, and member states must effectively justify why they refuse access to one of their documents, just as the institutions do regarding all other documents. the bottom line will always be the rules in regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. however, it is equally important that the commission can have correspondence with member states, for example in the field of infringements of eu law. we need to have the possibility to quickly find satisfactory solutions from the perspective of both the commission and eu citizens, as codified by eu law. those kinds of contacts need to remain confidential, and that is also what the court has said. finally, i shall just comment on the ‘space to think’ under article 4(3). if we think carefully, i guess most people would agree that parliament, as well as the commission and the council, needs a certain space to think. documents related to decisions that have not yet been taken, or reflecting internal discussions, are not the same as other documents. what about the records of political group meetings or preparations? you have yourselves identified a number of problems and limitations arising from refusing a space to think, considering, again, what would benefit citizens most and what would be most helpful. i must say that i would have preferred the council to be here – as many of you have said – just as i would have preferred a fuller house, because these are absolutely crucial issues for all of us. the big task for us all in the next few weeks or months is to find common ground. that is also true within this house, and today’s debate has shown that it is not always that easy. the more divisions there are, the more difficult it will be when the three institutions hold discussions. parliament, the council and the commission each have their role, which should be respected, and i hope parliament will speak with one strong voice, because that will benefit us all and benefit the end result, which i hope will be a balanced and workable compromise text.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 march 2009. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
on behalf of the pse group. i said that i was in favour of this proposal, although i would like to stress that if amendments had not been tabled for the house, which went somehow beyond what was agreed on the basis of a general compromise in the committee on the environment, this problem would not have arisen, because the compromise amendments fully respected the nature of this revision, namely a recasting. we could have voted for this today, but we accept this idea because it is reasonable.
mr president, i would just like to say that today's events clearly show that the agreement on the recasting and the reshaping is not working and is affecting our powers of sovereign authority. that is the problem with this procedure, as we have shown very well at this moment.
mr president, on mr schaldemose's report on the integrity of computer gambling i was uncertain how to vote and why. so i asked my pensioners. i met a pensioner named ugo rossi yesterday. he said: "oh, the internet gambling, i lost 10 000 euros". soon afterward, i met a retired woman named lucia annone. he said: "don't tell me about it, this computer gambling, i lost 100,000 euros". but i decided how to vote when my 94-year-old mother also told me, "you gave me the computer, i lost my entire pension for march 2009: 450 euros". no, mr president, i decided at that point that i had to vote against this report because of the fact that i had to protest against gambling and for its elimination throughout europe.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of mr costa's report on the amendment of certain provisions of the bilateral agreements in force between the member states and the republic of armenia on air services. i think it is appropriate to include a designation clause in order to avoid discrimination between community carriers and those from the european economic area and switzerland. i also support the amendment to article 5 on air fares, which states that transport operations entirely within the european community must be subject to the legislation of the european community itself. i believe that these changes will benefit the airline industry and also the citizens, by reducing red tape and resolving the legislative conflicts that normally arise in cases of inter-community regulations and bilateral agreements.
in writing. mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mr costa on the agreement between the european community and israel on certain aspects of air services. i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to encourage economic cooperation with the state of israel in certain services, such as air transport, not only for the sake of mutual benefit but also for the sake of positive externalities for the whole surrounding area. i myself am the rapporteur on the report on the development of a common airspace with israel, in the context of the commission's proposal for a comprehensive aviation agreement with this important partner of the european union in the middle east and in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and one of the main trading partners in the euromed area. in addition, israel has long been a member of the international civil aviation organization, complies with its obligations and has adopted policies consistent with international regulations in this field, especially in the areas of safety and security, but also environmental protection and the social treatment of airline employees: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall abstain on the report by mr borrell fontelles on the additional protocol to the ec-south africa agreement to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. i do not think i entirely agree with the work done by my colleague.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. since the schengen treaty came into force, much progress has been made. the treaty has radically changed the lives of many europeans by bringing a new idea of border management to the fore. in 2002, the new phase of integrated border management was launched, leading to the establishment of a common body of legislation, a common system of consultation, operational cooperation, a common integrated risk assessment, trained staff and burden-sharing between member states with a view to a european border guard corps. now that this phase is over, it is time to look ahead to achieving truly integrated border management, to achieve the dual objective of improving security and facilitating travel procedures for third country nationals. i therefore welcome the proposals which the commission has put before parliament, many of which have already been dealt with in my report on the community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers. at this point it seems inevitable to continue along this path, giving our favourable opinion to the creation of a system of entry/exit registration, facilitating the crossing of borders for travellers and the introduction of an electronic travel authorization system.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i would like to support the report by mrs hennis-plasschaert on the important question of the future course of border management in the european union and on similar experiences in third countries. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to evaluate and analyse existing border management measures before investing additional resources and developing the systems which the commission seems to want to prioritise, such as entry/exit for all third country nationals, a registered travellers programme (rtp) open to them as well, and a framework for the development of local arrangements for registered travellers and automated border controls. these procedures have great potential, but it must be stressed - and i am pleased about the work of my colleague for this - that absolute priority must be given to ensuring the protection of personal data and to developing technologies that are as non-invasive as possible from the point of view of the privacy of the subjects, not forgetting, lastly, a thorough cost-benefit analysis.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mr lehne on the crossborder transfer of the registered office of companies. in fact, i think that the cross-border migration of companies should not be seen as one of the crucial elements of the completion of the internal market, but, as often happens, as a way of circumventing national legislation on various issues (not least taxation). i am therefore against this report because there is a real risk that the crossborder transfer of headquarters will circumvent the legal, social and fiscal requirements of the european union.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i cannot agree with many of the points in mr catania's report on the future of the common european asylum system and must therefore vote against it. while i agree with my colleague that the institution of asylum is an essential aspect of democracy and the protection of human rights, it is absolutely necessary to avoid any possible abuse of asylum in order to ensure that it remains so. to this end, rather than a common asylum system in europe and rather than building a 'europe of asylum', to use the words of the european pact on asylum and immigration, adopted by the european council last october, it would be more desirable to build a 'europe of rights', that is to say a europe that tackles the causes of the increase in the number of refugees as noted by the rapporteur, that takes a stronger international position on the resolution of conflicts in certain countries, that presses more decisively for respect for human dignity and life and fundamental freedoms to be guaranteed where it is not yet guaranteed. fighting against the effects of such serious violations of rights does not and will never effectively solve the underlying problem, for which other instruments should be used.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mr stauner on the commission's action plan towards an integrated internal control framework for the union's budgets. the principles of sound financial management and budgetary transparency are essential not only to obtain the positive statement of assurance from the european court of auditors through the simplification of the legislation applicable to controls and the consequent potential reduction of the costs associated with it, but also, in the medium term, to monitor more effectively the use of resources by the citizens and the states of the european union and to increase accordingly the legitimacy of eu action. i believe that this is why it is essential to start cooperation with the member states themselves and with independent monitoring bodies, as the rapporteur has already pointed out.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mr medina ortega on cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters. it is clear that to promote efficiency and thus avoid waste of time and money, direct contacts between judicial authorities and full cooperation between them must be encouraged. moreover, information technologies, especially secure communications by e-mail and videoconferencing, must be used more widely, as they are both more effective in terms of results and more cost-effective. finally, i agree with the rapporteur when he welcomes what is being done in this area in the context of the e-justice programme.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of the doorn report on the implementation of directive 2006/43/ec on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. i fully agree that the commission should be urged to promote, in close cooperation with the member states, national quality control structures which ensure independent and impartial control of audit firms. i also believe that it is both necessary and proper to monitor and report on the extent to which the objectives of the directive have been achieved or are expected to be achieved.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. i vote in favour. a few days before the women's day, we are again in this room discussing the social disparity between the sexes. the entertainment industry, as the commission has pointed out, is not exempt from these problems. women in the arts still struggle to make their mark, rarely occupy high-level positions within large cultural institutions and are often paid less than their male colleagues. in particular, the atypical hours which characterize the exercise of the artistic profession prevent the peaceful realization of the female nature of worker, wife and mother, often forcing women to choose between a career and a family. i therefore conclude by stressing the need to ensure equal representation of men and women in decision-making and advisory bodies dealing with recruitment, promotion and salary advances, as well as in the other branches of the sector, in order to set up a statistical monitoring system which will make it possible to carry out comparative analyses of the working situation of women in the various countries of the union.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of mrs gibault's report on equal treatment and equal access for men and women in the performing arts. i share the aims of the project carried out by my colleague: to assess the way in which identities have been socially and culturally constructed in the performing arts sector and to propose concrete solutions to correct the imbalances linked to the current unequal situations. it is necessary to be able to use all the resources of available skills to ensure the health of the sector and the personal fulfilment of men and women. finally, i believe it is essential to find solutions quickly to open kindergartens within cultural establishments with times that are consistent with rehearsals and performances.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mr schwab on the general safety requirements for motor vehicles. the report, which is very well done, aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, high levels of safety and environmental protection. these requirements have been harmonised at community level to avoid differences between member states and to ensure high levels of road safety and environmental protection throughout the community. i therefore fully agree with mr schwab, since the proposal aims to simplify the type-approval legislation in the field of motor vehicle and tyre safety considerably by means of a single council and parliament regulation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mr krahmer on emissions from industrial installations. i do not agree that local responsible authorities should indicate measures to limit emissions for individual plants, with the result that an average emission level is reached that meets the requirements of the brefs, while allowing for flexibility to adequately manage local situations. this task should be entrusted entirely to a community authority, not a local or national one. the specific character of the territory cannot be discriminatory in this field, since different minimum thresholds lead to extremely variable costs and revenues, which in turn affect the real competitiveness of firms.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr lehne on the statute for a european private company. i agree with the work done by my colleague in laying down autonomous rules for those elements which are essential for the normal functioning of the spe, such as the minimum capital, employee participation and controls on registration. finally, as regards references to national law, i think that the objective of the spe regulation, namely the creation of a unitary form of company at community level, is entirely acceptable and desirable.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after reading carefully the work of mr surjan on the guidelines for the 2010 budgetary procedure, i am voting against the report. i do not think that the credibility of the european parliament is based on promotion and linkages between budget lines: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i also agree with the principle of maximum transparency, but i believe that the funds to be allocated to the various sectors should be distributed without any discrimination as to efficiency or results: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not approve of the report by mr maňka on the guidelines for the 2010 budgetary procedure and therefore i am voting against it. point 5 of the motion for a resolution refers to the complete adjustment of croatia to the european union. but in these situations, with 27 members and a potential new entrant, the newest arrival should adapt and not the rest of the countries, as the resolution says. i also do not feel that i support the extension for a second year of the pilot exercise to strengthen cooperation between your bureau and the committee on budgets, because i do not think it is useful and effective.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mr schaldemose on the integrity of online gambling. i am firmly convinced that in this sector, which incidentally generates a very important source of income for sports organisations, there must be complete transparency to protect the public and consumer interests. finally, i believe that a uniform regulation, rather than a heterogeneous one such as the one in force, can be of great help in preventing online gambling from being perceived as a social problem.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mr petre on the quality assurance of foodstuffs and the harmonization of the rules in question. i think this is a very important point, because the quality of food is increasingly affecting the quality of life of european citizens. the eu must insist that all foodstuffs meet production requirements, particularly in terms of hygiene and safety. the european union is also obliged to ensure fair competition between domestic products and those from third countries. finally, i share the rapporteur's view that, as regards pgi (protected geographical indications), pdo (protected designations of origin) and gts (traditional speciality guaranteed), community technical assistance should be provided with a view to implementing these systems in the member states and to promoting products of protected origin.
in writing. - mr president, i give my favourable vote on the reports presented by mr evans on competition policy in 2006 and 2007. in the field of competition, enormous strides have been made in recent years. in fact, if we think of the control of mergers between companies and state aid (a problem which has become of primary importance following the financial and economic crisis on the markets), the commission has carried out an increasing amount of work. that is why i share the view of my colleague when he speaks of the need to modernise the legal and institutional framework in this sector.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs herczog on the 'small business act'. the importance of smes in the european union is obvious, and that is why i want to support the careful work done by my colleague. policy, public intervention and the social context must all respond to the needs of small businesses, which are the real backbone of the european union. i therefore agree with the report, particularly with regard to the legislative proposals on the general exemption of the sme category from state aid.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tonight, this evening, we are concluding a long session of work and i think that each of us should be satisfied with the results achieved. for various reasons, which are those which concern the union as a whole, because it is clear that allowing the european union to create regional regulatory spaces where there are international rules governing them, to interfere between the member states and international organizations in defining rules, is an activity that should be done only when this is necessary. and it was obviously necessary: the incidents that set the process in motion have made this unfortunately clear. the result achieved is one which, i believe, cannot fail to satisfy everyone, in the sense that it is an honourable compromise of a long process, in which all the institutions involved - the commission, parliament, the council - have played their part, each, so to speak, representing the interests which they are called upon to represent. this is why the whole sector, the whole framework of maritime safety has today taken a step forward. in short, my colleagues and i have had the honour and opportunity to deal with more specific problems: i have had the responsibility and the pleasure of dealing with the liability of the carriers, the carriers, in the event of accidents to the people carried on board. i must of course admit that, as always, the result is a halfway house between the ambitions we have expressed, ambitions which at one time even seemed capable of being achieved: the ambition was to immediately extend cover, protection to all those who board a ship, whether it is on international seas, on national seas or along rivers. then, as it were, the reality of things meant that the scope was partly reduced. i acknowledge, let us say, but i cannot help but point out that something is missing from this set of rules, because many of the ships that pass indifferently from inside a river to the sea are not covered in this way and surely this is a point that will have to be covered in some way; i am sure that the commission will take action in this direction as soon as possible. we have also set a long enough period for domestic sea travel to be covered. this problem of length is a problem of transition periods, perhaps it is a theme that we have underestimated. i am afraid that the risk we have is that they are too long and that we will therefore have to wait too long for this. but it's better to have them than to have nothing different. the other big point under discussion - and yet the point reached - is that this protection starts from a safe moment. of course, we can now tell our citizens that when they board a ship they are covered, in essence, from the end of 2012, however they move. in short, we have also made all citizens feel a little more european in this respect, because the same coverage will be available on every sea, in every place, for every ship.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, parliament and the committee on transport could not and cannot fail to deal with the matter of improving the safety of ships and also to specify the measures to be taken in the event of an accident. the third maritime package also effectively addresses the issues of the responsibilities of carriers towards passengers and the goods they carry. it was now, always hoping that the matter would not end up being ignored, as i have the impression that it is in the case of airline passenger rights. i believe that the targets for compliance by 2016 for category a vessels and the subsequent initiative for category b, c and d vessels are far too tolerant and too favourable to carriers. i hope that the union's generosity will be reflected in the timely adaptation of carriers to the new rules. common standards were and are also needed for classification societies responsible for the inspection of ships and the granting of navigation authorizations, as well as very clear rules for regulating inspections and blacklisting ships. i therefore welcome the proposals and the measures on the management of accidents and the risks of marine and environmental disasters and the expertise in this area, and i would perhaps ask the commission to do more. the package also includes measures relating to investigations, jurisdiction and due process in the event of a maritime incident, a compendium which we hope will help to clarify liability and compensation. i therefore vote in favour of the report as a whole.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have been involved in this long and important work. i say a heartfelt thank you, a real thank you because today european legislation, european rules on maritime safety are certainly better than what we had before. it is, of course, up to the commission to implement them from now on, and i am sure that the commissioner will do his utmost to ensure that they do not remain a dead letter. fortunately, we have some regulations that give direct responsibility right away; the commission will have to ensure that the directives are transposed into national legislation in other cases. of course, when one chapter closes, another immediately opens. we have left out many topics, which perhaps need to be retrieved and seen. i'll just mention two: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the other is the extension of passenger cover to inland navigation as well as to the completion of domestic navigation. we could say many other things, but that would be of little consequence. what is important at this moment is perhaps to thank the commission once again for the initiative, the commissioner for the attention with which he has followed parliament's activities, but to claim, without unnecessary pride, the role that parliament has played. i must say that if we compare the proposal as it entered the legislative circuit, from how it was reduced after the first council position and to the final result, i think it can be said that parliament has proudly played its role, which is more and more that of being - i cannot say guardian because the guardian is the commission - but convinced interpreter of european integration and the role that europe can play for everyone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that i have dealt with this subject. in the previous legislature i had the pleasure of being rapporteur for an own-initiative report on this subject and then we approved the eurovignette in its previous version not long ago. we should not forget why this process has been going on for so long. there are at least three facts that must be kept in mind at the same time. until yesterday, road infrastructure was paid for by taxpayers alone. the eurovignette paves the way for the future to begin shifting the payment of at least part of the financial burden of infrastructure to users, in a much fairer way. so the eurovignette is an instrument of fiscal equity, not the other way around, although it may seem so at the moment. obviously it is the financial engineering of different states that do not allow europe to deal with it because otherwise we would gladly deal with it to make it happen in a different way. the current eurovignette applies the 'user pays' principle. now we have the problem instead of moving to "polluter pays", which is another big principle that we have to try to address. i think that the compromise reached is a good compromise and we must try to keep it as low as possible. it is proof that, if the council accepts it, we will be able to actually pass... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. no serious scientist doubts that the use of fossil fuels needs to be drastically curbed because of the limited resources and because the burning of fossil fuels is the main cause of climate chaos. we all know that about a third of fossil fuels are wasted on transport and that, above all, the trucking industry causes enormous damage to people and nature, which is simply blamed on the taxpayer. everyone agrees in principle with the principle of cost-effectiveness. but when it comes to the concrete measures to implement cost-reliability, there are a thousand excuses. it is completely incomprehensible why, in the face of the crises, action is not taken more consistently now. it is wrong to continue to promote the unhealthy and overbuilt transport industry. otherwise, the 20-20-20 target will be further and further away. we must realize that this lie is putting our grandchildren's future at risk.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in all the documents dealing with employment and equal opportunities, it is recalled that the affirmation of women's rights is achieved through the possibility of having access to appropriate childcare services, without which reconciliation is in fact impossible and rights are nullified. and now more than ever, in the face of the problems of the economic crisis, these questions are further aggravated. in the european union, more than 6 million women aged 25 to 49 report being forced to work part-time or inactive because of their family responsibilities. for more than a quarter of these, the lack of childcare facilities or their excessive cost is said to be the cause of their situation. six years after the adoption of the barcelona targets, as the 2010 deadline approaches, it appears that most member states are unlikely to achieve the targets, which were not as ambitious: to ensure that 30% of children up to the age of 3 have access to nursery schools. much remains to be done to achieve satisfactory levels of childcare services, starting with those services for children under the age of 3. i am therefore very pleased that today's ecofin council has approved the possibility for all member states to reduce vat on services for children. i believe that this is a significant incentive and a good sense move which could help to revive the nursery scheme and the child and family services scheme throughout the european union.
madam president, the european commission should focus on this issue. as unicef and other organisations have underlined several times, it affects a huge amount of children in the world and in europe. the situation in which social and economic risks are made worse by the absence of parents who cannot meet their children’s needs for care protection and education may lead to an increase in vulnerability. the primary responsibility for the development of the child rests with the parents; and parents, in fulfilling their responsibilities, are entitled to receive the necessary support from the community and the local authorities, whose efforts to meet their obligations unfortunately often fail. so we expect concrete action from the commission in such an important field.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was appropriate to discuss with all the necessary urgency the measures to be taken to protect bluefin tuna stocks and the gradual reduction of the quotas set by iccat. the european union must continue to support the recovery plan agreed in marrakesh, alongside monitoring by the member states to prevent illegal tuna fishing, particularly in the mediterranean, as evidenced by recent investigations by journalists, both on television and off, and to raise the issue of unfair competition by the countries of the southern mediterranean. the following points are to be emphasized positively in the proposal for a regulation: the choice to match fishing capacity to the allocated quota; the commitment to produce information on the implementation of their annual fishing plans within the time limits specified; the international mutual inspection programme to ensure the effectiveness of the recovery plan; a sport and recreational fisheries discipline. a plan that is more demanding than in the past and more rigorous in regulating this truly remarkable fishing activity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been shown by the speeches so far, the iccat plan has not yet been fully implemented, and the plan governing the very different fishing methods for tuna, ranging from the flying tuna system to traditional fishing using the fixed tuna system, needs further refinement to be fully implemented. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the fishermen themselves to take a decision on the matter. the fixed tuna trap is by definition unable to go in search of prey: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the current situation. i also think that it is appropriate to think about the protection of this fisheries system also by unesco, because it is an economic and employment aspect as well as a cultural aspect. i also believe that iccat should include in its programmes additional control systems: the tuna cannot be intercepted before it enters the mediterranean indiscriminately; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and i think, and i conclude, mr commissioner, that it is worth making a diplomatic effort to try to curb fishing in the mediterranean for the countries bordering the mediterranean itself, by preventing others who have an interest in safeguarding the fishing heritage of the mediterranean fisheries, because they are equally interested in their fishing future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'strengthening vigilance' is what the president-in-office has told us: but we want to have a data on how many otcs are still owned by european banks right now, how much the bubble is globally. it is conceivable that the commission and the council will decide to freeze derivatives, or at least to propose it at world level, and to suspend their trading. is it possible that in the banks that have been nationalised these derivatives are still a negative asset but obviously also a worry for development? strengthening supervision also means that we must not only, as the commission says, have the capacity to make a withdrawal in the banking system and a review of the control system, but also to make new proposals. so if we have dealt with the automobile crisis, we should also deal with small and mediumsized enterprises, that is to say, with the unfair competition that comes within our borders and for which the council has still not decided to ratify and promote origin labelling, the only system not to be protectionist but to protect consumers and products, as president barroso himself has just said in his speech. in addition to promoting new credit lines, helping businesses also means giving smes quicker and cheaper access to mobility if we want them to convert and not close down. at the moment, many of them are 50% short of their orders, which means they have to resort to bank credit. but the banks are not giving money and the banks' shares have collapsed because of derivatives. it's a dog biting its tail. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one minute can only take one telegram. my own, which i am sending to the european council, has already been given the title by schulz and rasmussen, who say that more must be done, above all in the social emergency, with new strong financial and fiscal policies. i'll add a complementary message: it is of course very important how the crisis is dealt with in such a way as to minimise the social damage. it is also important to keep the course steady to know how to get out of it, whether to be at the head or the tail of the global competition, which will increasingly be played out in the search for a new green and intelligent, low-carbon economy. all action at all levels, from local to european, must therefore be consistent with this option. the council must give a strong mandate for the negotiations towards copenhagen so that we do not lose this opportunity, including economic opportunities, and so that we support that mandate also, with the necessary funding to the developing countries so that they can be our allies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it was a mistake to underestimate the scale of the crisis at the beginning, especially on the part of the commission, and it is a mistake to repeat it today at summits which produce declarations of principle which are not followed by united and concrete decisions. the answers which the reports of my colleagues give to the most serious problems of the european citizens are convincing and up to the task. but this house is called upon to fill a void, to introduce the eurobond instrument, which has been repeatedly requested by mr mario mauro, the undersigned and almost 200 colleagues, and which is perhaps the only instrument capable of raising the financial resources that our budget does not have, to finance the response to the crisis, transeuropean infrastructure, clean energy, research and broadband, the fight against poverty, erasmus for young people. the great master jacques delors - i have concluded - has shown us the way: let's pursue it with courage.
madam president, i ask that we check. i do not know whether the final vote on the reul report has been taken, can you check that?
madam president, i voted in favour of the joint project to increase the safety of those who travel by sea. i think it is very important to add that more should be spent on the professionalism of all seafarers who are responsible for navigation - from the master, to the chief engineer, to the navigator, to the master of arms, to the helmsman and to all seafarers - because the lives and safety of men at sea depend on them. so more professionalism and more pay for those who hold our lives in their hands as seafarers.
i thank the fans who have been following me for a long time and never tire. madam president, i am one of the 74 members who voted against the jan andersson report today, not because i am against employment, but because in these guidelines for the policies of the european union, of the member states of the european union, it is not at all specified that one of the possibilities for promoting employment is to allow workers who want it, who demand it, to retire. this policy of postponing the mandatory retirement age everywhere, however, does nothing but cause young people to lose their jobs, who would gladly replace the elderly who wish to leave their jobs to the young.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr geringer de oedenberg on the codified version of the exemption from value added tax of certain imports of final goods. as this is merely a codification of a previously existing legislative text and does not involve any substantial change to the text itself, i believe that the commission's proposal and the recommendations of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission itself should be supported.
in writing. i shall abstain from voting on the report by mrs diaz de mera garcia consuegra on the adjustment of the basic salaries for europol staff. i agree with the rapporteur's view on this only in part and therefore do not think it appropriate to take a position on this.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. i believe that the environmental catastrophe that has struck romania cannot go unnoticed. romania has been through the flood not only economically and environmentally but also socially. the stories of the people were heartbreaking: families have lost their loved ones and their possessions, many of which were acquired with a lifetime's sweat. many associations are already active in the area, but it is time for the institutions, and the members of this house in particular, to make a concrete contribution to this cause. i therefore welcome the opinion of the committee on budgets and hope that the 11 785 377 euro from the solidarity fund will be made available to romania as soon as possible in order to help the population to recover economically, environmentally and socially.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr böge's report on the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. i agree that the conditions for the mobilisation of the fund are met in the case of the application submitted by romania following the floods which hit the country last july. the floods have caused serious damage to the landscape and the population living in the area of the 5 affected regions. i therefore think it is more than appropriate to mobilise the fund, also because the sum in question falls within the annual ceiling provided for in the interinstitutional agreement of may 2006.
in writing. - i support the report by mr haug on the 2009 amending budget, which takes account of the serious damage caused by the floods in romania in july 2008. i have already expressed my favourable opinion on the report by mrs böge on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in this specific case and here i reiterate my support for the measure, provided that it aims, as provided for in the 2006 interinstitutional agreement, at the rapid and effective restoration of decent living conditions in the regions affected by the natural disaster and not at compensating for the damage suffered by private individuals.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the report by mr de grandes pascual on common provisions and standards for bodies carrying out inspections and ship inspections. i have already had the opportunity to express my reasons for supporting the work carried out by the honourable rapporteur on the third maritime package and the benefits which the measures envisaged could bring in terms of maritime safety and improvement of existing regulations. in that case, i repeat my vote in favour.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr vlasto on port state control in the context of the third maritime package. i agree with the part of the agreement reached on the extension of the scope of the directive to vessels calling at anchorages and the part on the increase in the rate of inspection and control for vessels with the highest risk profile. i would remind you of the need for the assessments of this risk to be as timely and independent as possible. i also share the view that under certain conditions the refusal of access to vessels should be permanent in order to ensure adequate safety levels for operators and passengers.
in writing. - i believe that the maritime package should be considered in a unified and integrated way, as parliament has always done when dealing with individual dossiers. i therefore vote in favour of the report by mr sterckx on the establishment of a community system for monitoring and reporting on shipping traffic, since this system is part of a wider framework aimed at improving the safety of maritime traffic and facilitating its management, for which i have already expressed my favourable opinion on several occasions. in this case, the application of technology for the purpose of monitoring ships would help to facilitate the allocation of responsibility in the event of accidents and to improve the procedures for receiving ships in so-called 'safe havens'. that is why i feel i must support it by voting in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr kohlicek on the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector. all too often, the allocation of responsibility for accidents at sea, whether serious or not, is difficult to achieve. i am thinking of the case of the investigations following the actual natural disaster caused by the prestige oil tanker accident and many others which unfortunately continue to occur. maritime transport deserves particular attention because, in addition to being the most cost-effective in relative terms, it is one of the most risky in terms of the environmental consequences of an accident. i therefore believe that it is necessary to establish precise and binding guidelines on how technical investigations following shipping accidents are to be carried out and to ensure that clear instructions are given in order to prevent them. that is why i am in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support the report by mr costa on the liability of carriers carrying passengers by sea and inland waterways in the event of an accident. i share the view of my colleague that it is most appropriate that the provisions of the athens convention of 1974 on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea be incorporated into community law, since the national differences still in force do not allow an adequate level of liability and compulsory insurance to be guaranteed in the event of accidents involving passengers. if this is not the case for other modes of transport, i believe that the legislation must be adapted to maritime transport.
in writing. i would like to support mr savary's report on shipowners' insurance for maritime claims because i share the recommendations made by the honourable rapporteur on the need to ensure that the insurance obligation is respected by shipowners entering waters under the jurisdiction of any member state, including through the sanctioning instrument in the event of the certificate not being on board the ship, should this occur. i agree that the amount of insurance is set at the ceilings provided for in the 1996 llmm convention, which guarantees adequate compensation to victims of accidents at sea. i therefore support the rapporteur's recommendation that the draft recommendation agreed with the council be adopted.
in writing. i support the report by mr jardim fernandes on compliance with the obligations of flag states, which shows parliament's determination to keep the third maritime package together in the face of the breakdown in the council's work on certain aspects, such as the subject of this recommendation. i am therefore pleased with the work done by my colleague and his colleagues on the committee on transport. i believe that the added value of the political agreement reached is important, particularly as it calls on the member states to introduce a quality management system for their maritime administrations and to comply with the relevant international standards, first and foremost those resulting from the conventions with the international maritime organisation. in addition to the advantages in terms of quality and safety of european flags, the proposal will improve the conditions of competition in the community and is therefore, in my view, to be supported.
in writing. - mr president, the protection of the environment and road safety, which are the objectives of the proposal for a directive, are two objectives which the european union must pursue with tenacity in order to have a transport policy which is more sensitive to the expectations and rights of its citizens. the commission has also proposed that the 1999 directive on heavy goods vehicles be amended to include heavy goods vehicles using certain road infrastructure. these steps must be reasonable and gradual, in order to avoid the collapse of a major economic sector, which is almost exclusively based on small and mediumsized enterprises, in a period of severe economic crisis such as the present one. in addition, a complete and effective intermodal system has not yet been created in europe to ensure a significant shift of freight transport to less polluting compartments and in these circumstances road transport is, due to its characteristics and efficiency, the most widespread and used system for the productive world. i therefore wanted to stress with my vote today the importance of taking gradual but indicative steps, not just symbolic steps, towards safer and more environmentally friendly road transport, without illogical and counterproductive penalties for the sector in question.
in writing. - i agree with the work done by mr saïd el khadraoui on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, and therefore i vote in favour of the report. although i disagree on some points, such as whether or not to include certain external costs in the levy, i do agree with the principle that 'the polluter pays'. the excellent work done by my colleague underlines the need to allocate the revenue from the tax, in its entirety, to the transport sector. finally, i think that the revenue from external cost charges should not become another form of taxation.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of this. transparency is not just an attribute, but a principle on which all the procedures of the institutions should be based. it is necessary to ensure the widest possible access to documents held by the european institutions for citizens and elected bodies, to enable them to participate effectively in the political process and to hold public authorities to account. that is why i have strongly supported and supported the publication of members' attendance at the sitting in the past. despite the progress made by the european institutions in the area of openness and transparency, the situation is far from perfect and the current recast of regulation (eec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents held by the european institutions should be seen as a further step towards the creation of an administrative environment in which the availability of information and the ease of access to it are the norm and not the exception. in conclusion, i would like to recall the great achievement of the last period: today, no less than 23 official languages are used in the european parliament. the documents of the european community are also available in 23 languages, which is a guarantee of democratic functioning.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr cashman on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. i share the honourable member's initiative to close the gap in the common rules on 'confidential information' (the so-called sensitive documents referred to in the current regulation no 1049/2001) by maintaining at the regulatory level some good principles drawn from the internal security rules of the council and the commission, in so far as those principles can also be applied to a parliamentary body. finally, i share the general objective of mr cashman, who wants to amend this regulation in order to increase transparency, without making this instrument too specific and difficult to implement.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. it 's not new . the current economic and financial crisis is affecting europe. i'm very worried about my country, italy. the crisis is causing jobs to be lost and families, with less and less money, are spending less and less. a strong intervention is therefore needed. this crisis seems particularly serious, but its depth and its extent over time depend on our behaviour. we must join forces: a coordinated european approach is essential. the urgent need to implement reforms in a rigorous way to create quality jobs and well-being for european citizens is more evident than ever. we must reverse the trend towards radical restructuring, avoid job losses and prevent further downward pressure on wages and social security benefits. we must effectively address the challenges of rising unemployment and social exclusion. in addition, there is a need to improve the coordination of efforts by both the eu and the member states, but it is equally necessary that the measures taken under the economic recovery plan to deal with short-term crises are consistent with the community's long-term objectives as outlined in the lisbon strategy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i shall vote against the report by mrs andersson. although i believe that we must join forces to reverse the trend towards radical restructuring, to avoid job losses and to prevent further downward pressure on wages and social security benefits, i also believe that the measures put in place by the commission are largely insufficient to ensure adequate coverage and protection of the social and labour fabric of the european union.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a decision tabled by the bureau concerning the extension of the application of rule 139 of parliament's rules of procedure until the end of the seventh parliamentary term.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of this. i am very concerned about the recent incidents in italy. a climate of 'witch-hunting' is developing against romanian and roma citizens, with punitive expeditions. the italian government is engaged in an obsessive campaign on security. but excessive measures against roma communities could worsen the already dire situation of these minorities and undermine opportunities for integration and social inclusion. it should not be forgotten that the rule of law requires that criminal liability be individual and cannot be attributed to collective categories. to deviate from this principle would be a dangerous precedent which would lead to the criminalisation of entire ethnic groups or particular nationalities of migrants. immigration is certainly a matter which requires european coordination in order to strengthen the judicial and police instruments which can deal with organised crime. but not only that. it is important to adopt clear employment policies for disadvantaged groups, including the roma working population, which include support measures to facilitate their progressive integration into the labour market and greater attention to education policies for young people.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mrs kósáné kovács on the social situation of the roma and better access to the labour market in the european union. i firmly believe that this creates further discrimination against the roma people. the roma must be treated like other citizens, without being given excessive advantages and facilities to the detriment of other european citizens, who have the same rights (and above all duties) as the roma.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr reul on the challenges of oil supply. i disagree with the rapporteur when he says that, according to various estimates, it will be possible to extract enough oil to meet demand in the future, but only at higher prices for consumers and through improved investment conditions. although i support the commission's efforts to prevent oil prices from rising in the coming years, i do not think that the situation as a whole has been properly analysed.
in writing. - i support the report by mr jarzembowski on the greening of transport and the internalisation of external costs. my view, which coincides with that of the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, is that mobility is of great benefit to the quality of life of citizens, growth and employment in the european union, socioeconomic and territorial cohesion and trade with third countries, as well as to businesses and workers directly and indirectly involved in transport and logistics. in this context, i welcome the fact that the commission has drawn up in its communication an 'inventory' of the measures taken so far by the european union for a sustainable transport policy. it's a small step towards a big goal.
in writing. - after careful consideration of the motion for a resolution on the lisbon strategy, i have finally decided to abstain and therefore not to vote for or against the motion.
in writing. - i agree with some of the points in the resolution on combating climate change. on the other hand, i cannot share several paragraphs of the report. so, i'm going to abstain and not comment on the matter.
in writing. - i shall vote against the motion for a resolution on guidelines for employment policies. in fact, considering that the global financial and economic crisis requires the eu to react in a determined and coordinated way in order to avoid job losses, to support adequate income for citizens and to avoid recession and to turn the current economic and employment challenges into opportunities, i think that the actions put in place by the governance of the eurocrats are decidedly insufficient to bear the weight of the crisis that we are experiencing even in a delicate sector such as employment.
in writing. - i agree with some of the points in the report by mrs ferreira on the european economic recovery plan, but i do not agree with it entirely. i therefore abstain and do not vote for the report by my colleague.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of this. transparency is not just an attribute but a principle on which all the procedures of the institutions should be based. it is necessary to ensure the widest possible access to documents held by the european institutions for citizens and elected bodies, to enable them to participate effectively in the political process and to hold public authorities to account. that is why i have strongly supported and supported the publication of members' attendance at the sitting in the past. despite the progress made by the european institutions in the area of openness and transparency, the situation is far from perfect and the current recast of regulation (eec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents held by the european institutions should be seen as a further step towards the creation of an administrative environment in which the availability of information and the ease of access to it are the norm and not the exception. in conclusion, i would like to recall the great achievement of the last period: today, no less than 23 official languages are used in the european parliament. the documents of the european community are also available in 23 languages, which is a guarantee of democratic functioning.
in writing. - i am voting against mr kirilov's report on cohesion policy in relation to investment in the real economy. it is essential to understand that eu cohesion policy is a major contributor to the european economic recovery plan and is the main source of community investment in the real economy, providing targeted assistance to address priority needs and areas of potential growth in both the public and private sectors. but this should make us think about the mistakes that have been made in the past and which have led to this serious economic situation. we need strict regulation in this area too, otherwise we risk repeating the same mistakes over and over again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if croatia's progress in adopting legislation to combat discrimination is satisfactory, i think that before we can assess the resolution, we must first see how the laws are being implemented. for example, i do not see any real progress on access to property, particularly as regards italian investment opportunities. i do not approve the resolution because, despite the obvious lack of progress and the inconsistency of the acquis communautaire, it welcomes an accession which, in my view, is too soon. they must return what they have stolen from our istrian-dalmatia refugees since 1947 and then, only then, we will talk about their accession.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of croatia, well, it is the duty of the speaker on behalf of the italian people who elected him to recall the right claim: more than 60 years have passed since that historic robbery of the property of our istrian-dalmatans. croatia has a moral duty and commission president barroso has a dossier on this very sensitive and damaging issue, which should be emphasized. it is a moral, rather than a political, issue to return property to its rightful owners: that's 1,411 free goods. turkey: but how can we think of allowing a country which today has an islamic veto, even within nato, to join the appointment of a secretary-general simply because it represents a country, denmark, in which the cartoon issue has been raised? there is the islamic highness of turkey, an islamic country, to the appointment of a prime minister as secretary general of the atlantic alliance, just because he is prime minister of a country that has had the affair of islamic cartoons a liberal country in which, of course, unlike turkey, one can publish ironic cartoons even about muhammad. in turkey there is a law and the commissioner should know about it that prohibits the building of any non-muslim temple on a street where there is a mosque: i mean, if there's a mosque on that street, there can't be any other religious building. our rapporteur, who i think was wearing a very nice pair of trousers, could not have entered the turkish parliament in that dress, with the trousers, even today. this shows that we are still far behind. turkey is asia, not europe.
thank you, madam president. in this very extensive discussion here today i would like to highlight only one problem, namely the issue of multilingualism in macedonia. recently, there have been conflicts between albanian and macedonian-speaking parents in schools in struga. under pressure from these nationalistically minded parents, school officials responded by dividing classes into ethnic groups. this is a wrong development. language learning is not promoted by keeping language groups apart, but by involuntarily bringing people of different languages together in school, work and leisure. the teaching of english, now an absolute compulsory subject from the first grade onwards, is certainly welcome, but it must not become an excuse for a macedonian not to learn albanian, nor for an albanian not to learn macedonian. the school in a multilingual region has a very special task: it must teach the children's languages in the classroom, as well as the languages of the neighbours. the eu's motto is 'united in diversity'. that is what we are doing.
the agenda calls into question the green paper on health workers in europe.
i have no doubt, commissioner, that the members will respond to your request for a contribution to the green paper on health workers.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the 5th world water forum in istanbul (16 to 22 march 2009), by josep borrell fontelles, on behalf of the committee on development (o-0026/2009 - b6-0015/2009).
let me make a personal note . i really hope that water is not taken away from being a common good and is a right for everyone.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we wrote then that water must be a human right and that active policies must be developed to realize this right through forms of public-public cooperation, which look in particular at local communities. unfortunately, that resolution was not supported by the european commission in mexico city - i remind the commissioner of that now - although it was very much appreciated by many countries, particularly in latin america. it is a matter of the very nature of this type of forum, which is a private structure. we will now have the opportunity to be present in istanbul as a parliamentary delegation and it would be good if our presence was supported by a resolution as appropriate as the one in 2006: we are not there yet, and i am therefore going to table amendments on that. we need a decisive change in the water problem. the figures for water suffering are well known and dramatic, and are set to worsen as a result of climate change. it is precisely in connection with climate change that the new field of action must be opened up. climate change is making access to water worse, and poor access to water is making climate change worse. so, to the issue of law, to the issue of public-public cooperation, we add the issue of a strong relationship to be established with the kyoto protocol. the un must be involved in the water issue. it is to a special un structure that the world water governance can be entrusted, removing it from the privateist logic that is still present in the current forum. and it would also help to connect with the big conventions, the climate convention and the desertification convention, which are living right in the un. of course, we also need adequate funding, which can come from general taxation and levies, for example, on mineral waters, which - i would like to say to my colleagues - we are also abusing in this parliament. the privatization of water must be opposed: it would make access to a vital good no longer a right but a market. and i think that our whole european history teaches us that it is the public that has guaranteed the right to water in our homes, which is not the case in other continents that are increasingly reliant on private penetration. these are practical issues, but they are also of great moral value. it is no coincidence that the right to water is being fought for by large movements, by large personalities, both secular and religious. the european parliament's chamber has recently been made available - and rightly so, i thank the presidents - for important meetings of movement organisations worldwide. finally, at the last meeting, the idea of a genuine protocol on the right to water was put forward, which i am convinced we should all support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to remind you, as mr musacchio did, that this parliament, together with the world political forum of mikhail gorbachev, sponsored in february a significant meeting entitled: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't think this is a coincidence. the document under discussion here appears weak and half-baked on all the crucial issues that will be on the table in istanbul. take water as a basic human right. if it is, and it's absurd to deny it, then it can't be a commodity. you don't buy a right and you don't sell it in a free society. a right is only bought in a slave society. but we know that huge private interests want to take over this right. so what does europe have to say in istanbul? who, as stated in recital j, for example, needs to increase the financial priority of water? that is a very ambiguous formulation. and is the state, the public entity, the only one responsible for water policy or not? or, as paragraph 12 of the resolution says, is he the 'most responsible'? but what does this phrase mean? this is in contradiction with paragraph 2 of the same document, which rightly states that water is a 'public good' to be kept 'under public control'. in short, we are in the midst of a general crisis in the development model of our society but we still linger on an idea of the market that appropriates the same nature for private purposes. finally, another very weak point: the lack of an organisational proposal in the document for world water management. the proposal for a world agency is contained in the memorandum referred to above, which is contained in one of the amendments which i shall be voting in favour of.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are alarming and require us to think very carefully. so many, too many people in the world are still denied the basic right to water. in recent years, the regulation of this subject has been particularly extensive. i would like to see the need, which is no longer a matter of delay, for a rationalization of the many international bodies which should have a role in governing, directing and controlling the world's water-related dynamics and which often overlap in their actions and competences. i also hope that the v world forum will bring to the fore and share the concept of water as a global public good, with appropriate policies for protection, public ownership and methods of use and distribution.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2009.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the special report of the court of auditors no 10/2008 on ec development aid to health services in sub-saharan africa, by josep borrell fontelles, on behalf of the committee on development (o-0030/2009 - b6-0016/2009).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dialogue and political and commercial cooperation with brazil is an important objective for europe, one which must be developed and strengthened. starting with the fight against poverty, especially of children, and also focusing on strong trade agreements to intensify trade and investment. but this strategic partnership cannot be without some strong points. the first: the need for greater cooperation in the fight against corruption, transnational organised crime, drug trafficking, money laundering and international terrorism. secondly: the need for close cooperation in the judicial field, in particular as regards cooperation in extradition procedures and mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group will vote against the report on the partnership with brazil and abstain on the question of the partnership with mexico. we are not very happy about it, but we think this vote expresses our dissatisfaction with what we have been denouncing for some time: as regards brazil, for example, the issue of partnership is being resolved by further emptying the mercosur, by focusing on priorities which we consider to be wrong. the commissioner mentioned agrofuels, for example, and the resolution contains a whole series of considerations in relation to nuclear, ccs and therefore coal. then, mr president, we have proposed some amendments on mexico. the rapporteur has been quite open about certain issues, particularly those relating to human rights. and today the topics on the political agenda are the great economic crisis that that country is going through, the problem of the immigrants returning and, of course, the violence and organized crime. i think that this is what the partnership should have focused on in a much more explicit way, and not on matters which we certainly consider to be of less importance. i would like to say a word, mr president, on the subject of interparliamentary dialogue, which is obviously very important to us all. i think and hope that the next eurolat meeting will be able to move beyond the somewhat formal and, frankly, unhelpful framework which has characterized many of our meetings and i really hope that it will also have an impact on the national debate in those countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe, as i have also said on other occasions, that a strengthened cooperation relationship with latin america is strategic for the union, because, as in the case of the salafranca report, the establishment of a closer relationship is explained not only by historical and cultural links and shared values - as the rapporteur rightly argues - but also by the mutual prospects for multisectoral, interregional and intraregional development. i therefore welcome the proposal for measures to strengthen trade and investment between the union and brazil, but i ask that they be strengthened in the areas of judicial cooperation, environmental cooperation, the recognition of human rights and protection against organised crime, which is often exported to the union, which are equally important priorities. i should also like to make a number of comments on migration and the remittances of emigrants, where there is no shortage of suspicions about the illegal export of currency acquired through illegal work and other illegal activities. on migration, i ask what guarantees a nation can give us that protects criminals and swindlers like cesare battisti and the magician do nascimento. this is enough to justify my absolute opposition to the opening of negotiations for a visa-free agreement between the european union and brazil.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten seconds to speak. i was at a conference a while back on pensions, on the payment of pensions, on how long retirees collect their pension before they move on to a better life. a ranking of the states was published at that conference: who had their own pensioners who were receiving the most years of pension and who had less years on average of pensioners in their state who were receiving the pension. it was considered as an enlightened example and mexico's example to follow. why would you do that? because pensioners lived on average, after collecting their pension and therefore enjoyed this benefit, for 6 months, and it was the record, that is, it was the state that was indicated as the best...
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
i am sorry, you were probably not in the chamber yesterday but yesterday you were remembered and a minute's silence was held, announced by our president. i am sorry that you were not present and that you were not aware of this fact, which had already happened. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the oral question to the commission on the 50th anniversary of the tibetan uprising and the dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese government, by marco cappato, marco pannella, janusz onyszkiewicz, on behalf of the alde group, and monica frassoni, eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the green group (o-0012/2009 - b6-0012/2009). let me make a personal note . i really believe that our debate can contribute to freedom for all the citizens of tibet and not to the domination of either a state or a religion.
author of the book. - madam president, i share your wish. unfortunately, we cannot hope that the presidency of the council will benefit from this debate and this debate to help advance the positions of our european union. the czech presidency clearly sees this as an obstacle to the major national policies of our member states on foreign policy, a common european policy. and china thanks, russia thanks, that is to say, the repressive and undemocratic regimes of the world thank this absence of europe, so well represented by the absence of the presidency in these benches. i would like to recommend to commissioner ferrero-waldner that we tackle this jointly, which i think is the question of the questions: it is not just a matter of public order - that is to say, of seeing this time, in these days, how many monks have been arrested, how many tibetan citizens have been killed, hoping that the bill is less heavy than it was a year ago, because of the brutal chinese repression - what i am asking about - i would have asked the council willingly, but also certainly the european commission - is to express itself on the fundamental political point, which is that of the negotiations between the people's republic of china and the envoys of the dalai lama, the objective of these negotiations and the reason why these negotiations have been suspended - at this moment we could say failed - unless we can restart them. here are two words that compare: the chinese regime's word that the dalai lama is a violent person in the head of violent people and that the dalai lama and the tibetan government in exile want the independence of a tibetan national state against the territorial unity of china. this is the voice of beijing. on the other hand, the dalai lama, the tibetan government in exile, the envoys of the dalai lama, they say that they want something else, that their method of struggle is nonviolence, and that they simply want true autonomy, which means autonomy in the possibility of maintaining their culture, their tradition, their language, their religion or their cultures and their religions. this line is translated in the memorandum that the tibetan envoys of the dalai lama presented to the chinese regime and published and in this memorandum we write their demands. what is being asked of the european union at this point is to choose, to take a stand. we have two different words: one of them is lying. the european union can be instrumental in the search for truth. as a radical party we propose this as a collective global political initiative: satyagraha, the search for the truth. the european union must engage with diplomatic instruments, giving the dalai lama the dignity of an interlocutor, by meeting him commissioner ferrero-waldner, tell president barroso this by meeting the dalai lama, giving him the dignity of an interlocutor for the search for the truth. is the regime in beijing right that they are violent, terrorist, separatist or is the dalai lama right that they want a decent and dignified state of autonomy? europe cannot remain silent in the face of this confrontation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament cannot ignore the cry of grief which the dalai lama has been making in recent days. we heard him in brussels just a few months ago: we all know him as a gentle man, a peacemaker, an interpreter of a culture, the tibetan culture, which is par excellence the culture of harmony and brotherhood. it is in the name of these values, speaking of 'chinese brothers', that the dalai lama has called, albeit forcefully, for the legitimate and concrete autonomy of tibet, recalling the torture and the terrible suffering of his people and his land. this is a demand which this parliament should be proud to make its own. it is our political and institutional duty, in the name of democracy, human rights and the values of freedom. the tibetan people look to europe, perhaps, as their only hope, and we really must not let them down.
the debate is closed. i too hope that the tibetan people will have their freedom but also not live under the domination of either a state or a religion. i have received five motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 108 (5) of the regulation. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it is to call for the roll-call vote on the separate votes which have been proposed in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
on behalf of the alde group. i ask for the roll call vote on the final vote as well.
mr president, in the meantime, i should like to express my satisfaction at the wide support which this house has given to the proposal which we had put forward with my colleagues mr pannella and mr onyszkiewicz, a proposal which does something different from what we heard from commissioner ferrero-waldner today, namely it takes part in: the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet in a position to take a decision on the matter. i would like to stress that the behaviour of the group of the party of european socialists seems particularly incomprehensible to me, first they opposed the debate, then they opposed my having a resolution, then they even voted against it, with mr ford giving the political reason that we are voting too many resolutions on tibet. well, perhaps they don't understand and you don't understand - or you understand too well - that there is much more at stake here, freedom and democracy for over a billion chinese as well as for the tibetan people.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. that's a lot of italian brains on the run. this exodus is becoming more and more widespread every year. the nobel prize in medicine, renato dulbecco, said this: "those who want to do research go, today as yesterday, for the same reasons. because there are no career opportunities, because there are no adequate salaries, no research funds and the doors of research centres are barred because there is not enough funding, not enough organisation to welcome new groups and develop new ideas". italian researchers are fleeing because of the non-existent structures, especially in the field of science and technology, because of the lack of funds, because of the ridiculous salaries, because of a selection system that discourages the best and rewards the recommended. they run away and regret it, because the basic preparation of our university is excellent. but then everything else is missing. i agree with the need for member states to ensure that recruitment of researchers is open, transparent and based on competitions which assess scientific merit. merit should be measured in terms of scientific excellence and scientific output (publications). however, other important aspects of a researcher's career must be taken into account: the commission has also developed a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european information society.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs locatelli on the european research partnership. as a university lecturer, i understand that europe needs more researchers to achieve increased productivity and competitiveness, particularly in view of competition with other large global economies such as the united states and japan, as well as other developing economies such as india and china. i therefore agree with the honourable member when she says that the member states must ensure that researchers are recruited in an open, transparent and competitive manner, based on scientific merit.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. new technologies have transformed human life, and this process has not excluded play. video games are now the favourite leisure activity of young people in europe and beyond. very often, video games are also aimed at adults with content, in many cases, not suitable for children. in the light of the commission communication (22/04/2008) on the protection of consumers, and in particular minors, in relation to the use of video games, it is therefore urgent to regulate labelling by means of measures such as the provision of a 'red button' or the 'pegi' online system, which are part of the european 'safe internet' programme. it is also important that member states continue to work closely together to promote the protection of children and to facilitate the development of systems that contribute to this end. it should also be borne in mind that this objective requires the cooperation of producers and above all of parents, who are the primary means of control within the family unit.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the manders report on the protection of consumers (especially minors) in connection with the use of video games. i think the use of video games is very important for educational purposes. nevertheless, there is a great deal of software for adults, which is characterized by an almost gratuitous use of violence. this requires ensuring adequate protection for minors, including by preventing them from accessing potentially harmful content intended for different age groups. finally, i think that harmonizing labelling for video games would stimulate a better understanding of labelling systems, while promoting the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. israel is an important partner for the european union in the middle east and in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. an agreement on aviation at community level would create a level playing field for all air carriers, european and israeli, allow passengers from all member states to benefit from similar conditions and increased competition between air carriers. this would make it possible to develop better, more numerous and cheaper air services between the european union and that state. it is the responsibility of the european union to ensure that common rules compatible with european legislation are implemented in relations with the mediterranean partners. this can only be achieved through a comprehensive agreement negotiated at community level providing for regulatory cooperation or at least mutual recognition of aviation standards and procedures. i therefore believe that the comprehensive negotiation is a fundamental step towards further developing the eu-israel aviation relationship and towards the expansion of the common airspace in the euromed area. the conclusion of the agreement would lead to greater opportunities for economic and social development for air carriers and passengers.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of my report on the development of a common airspace with israel. i do not think it is appropriate to repeat the reasons for my vote in favour, because they seem obvious. however, the reasons can be readily seen in the report.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i agree with the motion for a resolution on the deteriorating humanitarian situation in sri lanka and therefore vote in favour of it. i believe that in view of the emergency situation in which an estimated 170 000 civilians are trapped in the area of fighting between the sinhalese army and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (ltte) forces and deprived of access to the most basic aid, an immediate temporary 'ceasefire' by the sinhalese army and the ltte is necessary to allow the civilian population to leave the areas of fighting. i also think that international and national humanitarian organizations should be granted access to the combat zone.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. we don't inherit the earth from our parents, we rent it from our children. so says an old indian proverb. the agricultural soils of southern europe are sounding the alarm. they are subject to increasing environmental pressures with negative effects such as: hydrogeological disruption, sea level rise, resulting salinization of soils, loss of agricultural land, decrease in biodiversity, damage from fires, plant diseases and epizootics. it is therefore clear that one of the priorities for intervention in agriculture is to define a common plan of action, mainly through programming aimed at preventing degradation and protecting agricultural land. the fight against land degradation must necessarily include a conservation strategy through increased attention to water-maintenance and afforestation programmes. the following are also of importance: dry farming techniques, crop rotations, selection of suitable genotypes and control of evapotranspiration. training and updating of industry and consumers is also needed with the dual purpose of finding specific solutions and empowering users towards a more sustainable use of natural resources and land.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i support the report by mr aita on the challenge of agricultural land degradation in the eu and the response through eu agricultural policy instruments. i agree with the aim of the report, which is to provide concrete ideas, reflections and proposals which can be considered at the appropriate time to finalise a common strategy for the recovery, maintenance and improvement of agricultural land. in a crisis situation such as the one we are currently in, it is appropriate to emphasize that soil defence makes it possible to maintain a productive potential which has political and strategic value, makes it possible to ensure a balance between imports and exports and guarantees a degree of autonomy and negotiating capacity in a multilateral context.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on worker participation in companies with a european statute. it is also necessary to allow for a constructive dialogue between the institutions and the workers, in the light of the recent judgments of the european court of justice. i also agree with the need for the commission to assess crossborder corporate governance, tax law and employee financial participation issues in the shareholding programmes related to this consultation.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. following the oral question by mr andersson, i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the children of migrants. indeed, labour migration has been increasing steadily over the past few decades, and the majority of migrants worldwide, 64 million, reside in europe. i also believe that migration can have a positive effect on families in the country of origin because, through remittances and other channels, it reduces poverty and increases investment in human capital. i therefore agree that it is necessary to ask the member states to take measures to improve the situation of children left by their parents in their country of origin and to ensure their normal educational and social development.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i do not agree with the motion for a resolution on the progress made by croatia. i therefore vote against. as i have said on several occasions, including here, i do not think that croatia has made enough progress. in the meantime, let them return what they have stolen from our istrian-dalmatia refugees since 1947. then, and only then, will it be possible to discuss croatian membership of the eu. the dispute over the property of those expelled from istria, rijeka and dalmatia, if not finally resolved, will make dialogue between the two peoples virtually impossible.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting against the report on turkey's progress in 2008. there are still too many unresolved issues to be able to say that there has been significant progress in the accession negotiations which began almost four years ago. i think of the situation of the kurdish people; i am thinking of the death penalty, which is still in force in turkey. i think about the cultural and religious problems that will have to be faced. these issues cannot be dealt with lightly and superficially in any way.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2008. we have reached the point where we must decide whether we want to create a great common market, in which we will of course have clear rules, or whether we want to create a europe which is the expression of a single, strong and sovereign identity. i therefore oppose the report on the basis of the elements contained in the motion for a resolution, which i consider insufficient.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the fifth world water forum to be held in istanbul. i firmly believe that water is a common good of humanity and that it should be a fundamental and universal right. i also believe that water should be declared a public good and placed under public control, regardless of whether it is managed, wholly or partially, by the private sector. finally, i hope that the global subsidy schemes for water distribution, which undermine the incentives for efficient water management and lead to overuse, will be abandoned in order to unlock funds for targeted subsidies, especially for the poor and rural populations, in order to establish a price that is affordable for all.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on ec development aid to health services in sub-saharan africa. in fact, considering that ec aid to the health sector has not increased since 2000 in proportion to overall development aid, despite the commitments made by the commission with regard to osm and the health crisis in sub-saharan africa, i think it is both necessary and appropriate to set a common commitment in order to achieve better health outcomes and to achieve the internationally agreed health development goals.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the launch of the single area for payments in euro. i think it is extremely important to support the creation of the sepa, which is open to effective competition and in which there is no distinction between national and crossborder payments in euro. finally, i think that the commission, as stated in the proposal, should be urged to set a clear, appropriate and binding deadline, not later than 31 december 2012, for the migration to the aupe products, after which all euro payments will have to be made using the aupe standards.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. i support the report by my colleague maria eleni koppa on the importance of the strategic partnership between the eu and brazil, as the two partners share a common worldview based on historical, cultural and economic links, and can together promote change and solutions on a global scale, such as close cooperation in promoting and implementing development goals to tackle poverty and economic and social disparities worldwide, and also to strengthen cooperation in development aid, including triangular cooperation and, in the same way, the fight against international terrorism, drug trafficking and crime. taking into account the central role played by brazil in the integration processes in latin america and the eu's interest in strengthening the dialogue with the region and the eu's welcome of brazilian initiatives to promote economic and political integration among latin american countries, we agree that brazil deserves recognition as a major promoter of the newly formed union of south american nations (unasuf). the role of mediation in the resolution of regional conflicts in latin america and the caribbean, based on respect for the principles of national sovereignty, non-interference and neutrality, with a positive effect on political stability in the region, should also be recognised.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs koppa on the strategic partnership between the eu and brazil. the role of the partnership is of paramount importance, as it is to give new impetus to the conclusion of the eu-mercosur association agreement, which is itself a strategic objective of the eu to deepen economic and trade relations and to broaden political dialogue and cooperation between the two regions. furthermore, the strategic partnership should be a tool for promoting democracy and human rights, the rule of law and good governance at global level.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. my vote is in favour. given the cooperative relations between the eu and mexico that have existed since the 1970s, they fully agree that this strategic partnership should be an instrument to strengthen cooperation between the two parties in international fora such as the world bank, the international monetary fund, the oecd as well as the g-20, the g8 and the g5 in seeking solutions to the global financial crisis and in formulating a common response to restore confidence in financial institutions, in line with the san salvador declaration. its geographical location gives it a strategic position as a 'bridge' between north and south america and the caribbean and the pacific, and it is hoped that this strategic partnership will institutionalise the holding of annual eu-mexico summits and provide a new impetus to the eu-mexico comprehensive agreement in its various policy areas, including human rights, security, counter-narcotics measures, the environment, technical and cultural cooperation. the council resolution of 11 october 2007 on the murder of women (feminicide) in mexico and central america and the eu's role in combating this phenomenon calls for more dialogue, cooperation and the mutual exchange of new practices.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i welcome the report by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra on the strategic partnership between the eu and mexico. it is crucial that this strategic partnership brings a qualitative leap forward in relations between mexico and the european union at multilateral level on issues of global importance and reinforces the development of bilateral relations. i am therefore absolutely confident that this agreement will make it possible to strengthen the coordination of positions on crisis situations and issues of global importance, on the basis of mutual interests and concerns. finally, i hope that the agreement will be an opportunity to discuss how to make the human rights and democracy clause, which are essential values in all agreements for both parties, more operational and to assess its implementation, including by developing its positive dimension.
in writing. - mr president. - i have to go. i am absolutely in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the tibetan uprising and the dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese government. abuse, from whatever source, must be condemned. on the other hand, it must be said that the chinese government has a moral obligation (and not only) to immediately and unconditionally release all those detained solely for participating in peaceful protests and to account for those who have been killed or are missing and all detainees, indicating the nature of the charges against them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly we are being blackmailed by a dictator who has taken victims, who wants to use victims to avoid international sanctions, and these are millions of people in darfur. so we don't have to submit to this blackmail. it is clear that we need an international coalition to put pressure on president bashir to abandon this line. but we must not hide from ourselves that the real effect, that the real cause of these things is this obsession with natural resources. it is no coincidence that the greatest human rights violations are in countries where there are great natural resources and it is china in particular that is the actor of this pressure for natural resources. so we cannot but think about tackling this problem at its root, which is to ensure equal access to natural resources for all the people of the world, and that is what we must do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you concerning the european council. we are told that at the european council you said that parliament agrees to have the vote of the president of the commission on 15 july and to have the vote on the rest of the commission once the treaty of lisbon is adopted. i would like to know whether that is true and, if so, on what authority you made those statements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while hundreds of palestinian homes are being demolished in east jerusalem, palestinian culture is also being targeted by israeli policy. some israeli soldiers have unfortunately put on their t-shirts an image of a targeted palestinian woman with the words "one shot, two dead", a pregnant palestinian woman. arab culture is being hit. the palestinian authority has chosen to make east jerusalem - not all of jerusalem - the capital of arab culture for 2009 together with the arab countries. israel arrested 20 activists - including international ones - who were simply holding an event for palestinian culture. it is an attempt to destroy any palestinian presence in east jerusalem. so i wonder if the international community can do something, make sure that these events, that jerusalem is really a shared capital, can succeed. let's make this happen.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european cosmetics industry is a very important economic and employment sector. as already mentioned, it generates a turnover of over 35 billion euros and more than 350 000 jobs in sales, distribution and transport. a vocation of high innovation. i also stress, however, that a high level of protection of human health and consumer information must be guaranteed. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and to stress some points which i consider very important. it is right to subject products to a safety assessment which also holds distributors accountable, who will have to make the necessary checks before marketing the products. it is also good that the new regulation provides for the banning of more than 1,000 substances used in cosmetics, substances classified as carcinogenic or toxic. the list of permitted dyes, preservatives and sunscreens is also important. it is also essential to have a clearer label on the function of the cosmetic product, the shelf life, special precautions for use and a list of ingredients listed in descending order of weight. in particular, labels must contain words, marks or images which give the products realistic characteristics and functions, not characteristics and functions which they do not possess. the traceability of the product must therefore be ensured, also in order to avoid the disturbing phenomenon of counterfeiting cosmetic products and so-called parallel imports. i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling that in italy alone, 120 million euro of cosmetic products, including perfumes and toothpastes, come from the parallel market, with potentially very serious health damage.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner, for being here and for allowing us to discuss this document. on the proposal to amend the directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market, parliament agreed that some extensions should be granted for the review period necessary to properly assess the active ingredients of certain biocidal products, taking into account the specific nature of the analyses required and the needs of the market, but it is clear that we are waiting for the more serious revision of directive 98/8/ec on biocidal products in order to express more substantive considerations. i would therefore like to suggest a few points for the commission to consider. firstly, it would be desirable to move from a directive to a regulation, a regulatory instrument which allows the same provisions to enter into force simultaneously in all the member states, thus regulating the sector in a uniform way. one substantial point will be data sharing, in line with the eu's guidance and, as already implemented under reach, for biocides too, testing on vertebrates should be avoided or greatly reduced, thanks to the mandatory sharing of data obtained from such tests between those registering the same active substance, thus avoiding duplication of studies. sharing data would allow for a more effective system of evaluation of the dossiers and reduce the costs of preparing them with a significant impact both on small and medium-sized enterprises and on the national authorities responsible for examining applications. it is necessary to aim at simplifying procedures and applying mutual recognition of authorization for the same product and use between the various member states, precisely in order to make both the procedures and the placing on the market of the same biocidal product in the various member states faster. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states on the application of the rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. finally, discrimination between european producers of articles treated with biocides and non-eu producers of articles containing biocides should be avoided. i leave it to the commission to come up with a solution which the new parliament can hopefully share.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009.
the agenda includes the report by maria martens, on behalf of the committee on development, on: one year after lisbon, the eu-africa partnership in action [2008/2318(ini) ] (a6-0079/2009).
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i believe that there is still a need for a thorough reflection on the relations between our two continents and on development strategies. it is a long process, we cannot ask for everything to be solved in one moment, and it is also very complicated, but it should have, i believe, in the first instance the need to be an inclusive and participatory process of building a partnership between equals from the bottom up. the lisbon summit was not able to do this fully, perhaps because of the haste with which it was done, and neither the european union nor the african union were willing or able to give a structural role to parliaments and civil society, both in africa and in europe. we are one year away from the summit and, as the martens report emphatically points out, our parliament, the pan-african parliament and civil society still do not have a full say in the definition of the strategy. so it is essential that this inclusion - also to achieve the millennium goals for getting out of poverty, out of disease and for the development of agriculture and education - that this inclusion happens, with all the issues that have been raised, from desertification, to climate change, to energy. full ownership is essential and a democratic partnership open to the people and not confined to governments or committees. we, as the european parliament, have intensified our relations with the pan-african parliament and there is no doubt that in these steps forward the european union-africa strategy has had a positive impact. but there are some questions that arose as early as 2007: funding. will these funds be made available to implement this common strategy? what future for the acp and the cotonou agreement? how we relate to international organizations: the world bank, the imf, the wto? let us work together to make these institutions more democratic. i believe that the challenge must continue with great force, because africa - as we have learned in recent years - is a continent rich in human and economic resources and is indeed a partner. it is great to see - and commissioner michel knows this well - how much wealth there is and not just death, destruction and war, although we obviously have to work on those if there is to be peace and democracy.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank the various speakers. i am glad that we are satisfied with the initial results, but it is obvious that this is not yet enough. it should be noted that this has only been in place for a year and that the cruise speed is expected to increase in 2009. i remember the main points of the various speeches and the questions asked correspond perfectly to my convictions. it is clear that there can be no development without appropriation, as mr hutchison and mrs morgantini said. it is also clear that the role of national parliaments and the role of civil society are extremely important. i regret that we have not been able to reform the institutional mechanisms governing the responsibility of this parliament for development policies. i remember that you asked that the country strategy papers be debated not only here but also in the national parliaments of the partners. the european council did not allow me to do that, so i sent the country strategy papers to the joint parliamentary assembly and through that channel you sent them to the various european parliaments, but all of this has not led to any form of institutional rule and i very much hope that it will. as a reminder, i would add that this will continue to be one of my absolute priorities, because we would make enormous progress if the european development fund were budgeted. as long as it is not budgeted, there will always be bad reasons for not giving the european parliament the role it should have, and therefore the commissioner responsible for development will sometimes find himself in a position of powerlessness. it would be much easier if i could debate priorities, programmes and projects here in parliament and, with that endorsement, i could move forward. unfortunately, that is not yet the case. i hope we can make it. i also do not want to ignore considerations which i do not think are right. i would like to remind you that last year the contribution of the commission and the member states was spent at european level, with each contributing €46 billion. we are now 1.7 billion behind the programme or, say, the target that was set. i am not at all satisfied with this and i think that we will have to fight for it. the european parliament will have to be a real bearer of this message and put pressure on it. all the political forces will be needed to convince the member states to simply respect their 2005 commitments. it won't be easy. i still remember, and so do you, the fight for the billion dollar food facility. it wasn't easy, but we got good terms. we have obtained an additional billion, but it has been spread over three years instead of two, and fortunately the projects are progressing and the implementation is progressing in a positive way. so i agree entirely, of course. we do not intend to reopen dac issues. there are some adjustments to the margin under discussion, for example peacekeeping missions. so we don't intend to open that debate. i must say that i am very cautious, i am not very much in favour of reopening this debate because if we do, you will see that even some of our member states will participate in it to put anything and everything in this accounting. i have to tell you, i don't agree, mr. cook, when people say we've lost our ideals. i don't think it was. i think that it is enough to hear the voices in this parliament to realize that we are still extremely committed to the defence of the developing countries. it's not true that we're not contributing to the solution. we cannot of course expect to solve everything, but i dare not imagine what the poor world would be like without european aid. it's not enough, i agree, but it's 57 percent of the world's aid. unfortunately, i do not think we can discuss this now, but the question of whether european aid from our member states or the commission always achieves its purpose and is always effective, whether this is the right way of working, is another matter. i would like to return to the question of whether or not budget support and conditionality should be introduced in this debate, because, like you, i am very reluctant to do so. but you still have to know what you want. if we want to get a government to take steps towards civil society or to involve its people, or its parliament, in a number of cases, we still have to accept that we are setting conditions because simply saying to a government "we hope you will do this", making a declamatory incantation or simply making a friendly suggestion, sometimes it is not enough. the question of conditionality - i do not like the word conditionality, but i prefer to speak of criteria - is important nonetheless. when you talk about a profile, for example, i think it is quite normal that we can establish one. this profile was not used to define the incentive envelope. it is quite normal, however, to analyse the governance profile of each country when preparing to grant them up to 25 or even 30% of an additional incentive tranche. all these debates are not closed. i do not wish to close them but i do wish that we could do so at some point. i'm ignoring all the considerations about china. i obviously think this is a good conversation. i think, of course, that the developing countries have the right to put into competition the cooperations they wish. africa is no longer a guarded hunting ground for europe, and that's a very good thing. i think it's important. i'm going to go with you. it is true that there is reason to question the quality of the development policies that are being put in place between china and africa. we can't blame them for doing so, but we can ask ourselves. i have been informed, for example, for a number of months now, of chinese contracts in the drc. i'm not saying they're bad contracts, i'm just saying there's a whole series of questions that deserve to be answered. moreover, we are busy answering them at the moment, especially with regard to the question of the state guarantee, when it is an agreement that is made with a private company, the percentage of loans compared to donations, the fact that it has not been put in competition, the fact that it is almost the same amount as the country's debt to the monetary fund. these are all questions that must be resolved, but not in a denunciation of this type of relationship. african countries have the right to make partnership agreements with the chinese as well, i will not go back on that. i think, mrs morgantini, that you have pointed to a number of points which were already raised by mr hutchinson. the real problem will always be the genuine partnership between the developing countries and us. i think that lisbon is a considerable step forward because at least the principles and a new philosophy of equal partners in rights and duties have been incorporated into the texts. but of course, we are not quite there yet and this is one of the elements that is linked to appropriation, which is linked, where possible, to budgetary support, which is linked to appropriation by civil society and by the debate at parliamentary level. i think you are right and that is certainly something that needs to be worked on. you have asked another question which really interests me and which i believe is a fundamental subject for debate. the question is: 'how can we better harmonize, better work together, better divide the work, better transfer global development policy between the different partners, the role of the world bank, the wto, the imf, the commission, all the major donors? "it is true that at the moment - you said it in another meeting - there are overlaps, duplications. there is even competition and it is not necessarily a useful competition. i can tell you that great progress has been made in the last two years, particularly with the world bank. i can tell you that i'm quite optimistic about seeing the new message, the strategy, the new philosophy that is the direction that i perceive at the world bank. so there is room for another kind of cooperation, collaboration between these different partners, and i think you have really touched on a fundamental point that will have to be explored further. of course good governance is a major element, that is why we have the governance package. mrs gomez raised the important issue of the effects of the financial crisis on the economic and social situation in developing countries. almost all the experts today agree that at a minimum, there will be a 2% reduction in growth, which is up to 50 million more poor people. but we must be aware of this. as far as we are concerned, i would be happy if the member states kept the promises they made in 2005. i assure you that you and we will have to fight singularly to force the member states to do so. secondly, and this is the april package i promised, i am busy preparing a communication which goes beyond official development aid, which will try to use a whole series of sectoral budgets of the commission to mobilise them in development policies. i must tell you that there are a number of interesting leads. i am also working on this package with the european investment bank, particularly with regard to supporting infrastructure to try to develop it more quickly and have quick impacts rather quickly. i'll come back in april with this. i would simply like to say that i do not forget one very important element, namely the role of civil society and national parliaments. i'll end with this. mr hutchinson once suggested that we could do a number of experiments with european parliamentarians, and perhaps national parliaments in our member states, to go and at least have a debate in certain places, where possible, on country strategy papers. i've had the opportunity to do that in three different countries. it worked very well, but obviously it worked well because we had the support of the government in these three countries, because if the government doesn't support you on this issue, it's extremely difficult. so i think you are right, that mobilizing parliamentary action is certainly a priority, and believe me, i will do everything in my power.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009.
we now have a short presentation of a series of reports on the agenda, eight in all, so i would ask all members to observe the time limits for this particular procedure scrupulously and i would also ask the commission to keep to the essentiality of the replies, otherwise we would have problems in respecting the agenda even for the assistance of interpreters. the agenda includes the report by alain hutchinson, on behalf of the committee on development, on contracts relating to the millennium development goals (mdgs) [2008/2128 ((ini)) ] (a6-0085/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on development and its rapporteur, mr hutchinson, for this report, which contains a number of considerations and concerns which we fully share. more aid and better development aid are needed if we are to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015, but also much more predictable and less volatile aid, as your report very rightly points out. these efforts will obviously be made through a combination of multiple instruments, but in countries where this is possible, budgetary support, general or sectoral, remains in my view the most appropriate and appropriate instrument. budget support is best placed to strengthen national processes and systems, improve country ownership, facilitate harmonisation, reduce transaction costs and thus improve public expenditure management and accelerate the achievement of the development goals. the commission has already greatly increased the use of budgetary support and will do so even more over the next six years, under the 10th european development fund. it is to make this instrument more effective and predictable that the commission has, in consultation with the member states and other stakeholders, devised a longer-term form of budget support which we have called the mdg contract for countries which meet certain criteria: good past performance, sound management of public finances, appropriate sectoral policy, etc. the mdg contract is the natural evolution of general budget support, not only because of its greater predictability but above all because of its focus on results and its ability to have a graduated response based on performance. these are partner countries which have committed themselves to focusing their policies and thus their expenditure on the millennium development goals. the mdg contract offers the following key elements: a six-year commitment, i.e. all six years against a previously customary three-year duration of general budget support; a fixed guaranteed payment of at least 70% of total commitments provided that there is no break in the eligibility conditions or the essential and fundamental elements of cooperation; a variable component of up to 60% maximum to reward performance towards the mdgs and linked to result indicators mainly in the areas of health and education and progress in public financial management. eligible countries are those that have already implemented budget support satisfactorily under the 9th edf, but also those that continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to monitoring and achieving the mdgs, to improving the management of budgetary resources of countries where there is proper coordination between donors. after assessing 10 countries, the commission has designed mdg contracts in seven of them: burkina faso, ghana, mali, mozambique, rwanda, uganda, tanzania and zambia. these programmes were submitted and approved by the member states last december. three contracts have already been signed: zambia and rwanda which i have personally signed, and mali, and the others will be finalised in the very next few weeks. collectively, these seven programmes represent around eur 1.8 billion, or some 50% of total general budget support, and some 14% of total national indicative programmes of the 10th edf. of course, we will seek, as your report encourages us to do, to extend this mechanism to other countries, including non-acp countries, on the basis of the experience we will gain from these first countries. obviously, alternative approaches will have to be devised for countries not yet eligible for budget support, but the mdg contract is already making an important contribution to improving aid effectiveness and accelerating progress towards the achievement of the millennium development goals.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr lasse lehtinen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the social responsibility of subcontracting companies in production chains [2008/2249 ((ini)) ] (a6-0065/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes this report very much. however important subcontracting may be for increasing productivity and competitiveness, we fully recognise the need for effective measures to ensure that subcontracting does not encourage or facilitate non-compliance with terms and conditions of employment, particularly in the case of long subcontracting chains. adequate, effective and dissuasive penalties are necessary to ensure that subcontractors fully comply with their legal or contractual obligations, in particular with regard to workers' rights. greater transparency in subcontracting processes will lead to better protection of workers' rights in general, which is something the commission is and remains very committed to, as you know. while i agree with your general principle that european problems require a european response, i would be more cautious about the conclusion in paragraph 14 of the report that the problem can only be solved by a clear legal instrument which introduces joint and joint responsibility at european level. the report also seems to go in this direction in paragraph 15, where it calls for an impact analysis on the added value and feasibility of such a community instrument. as regards the call to the commission in paragraph 25 to ensure effective compliance with the directive on the posting of workers, i would like to point out that we have recently set up a high-level group of experts on the posting of workers. this group of experts, composed of representatives of the member states and the social partners, aims to improve the practical application of the directive and in particular administrative cooperation between the member states. it will hold its first meeting on 25 march. in this respect, i would like to point out that a study entitled 'liability in subcontracting processes in the european construction sector', published in 2008 by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, clearly shows significant differences between national systems of joint and several liability, as well as in their effectiveness. the study also highlighted the fact that there does not appear to be a one-size-fits-all solution and recommended further debate and research, particularly on cross-border aspects. the problem we are trying to solve is social, but the proposed solution clearly has implications that go far beyond the social realm. the economic and legal implications of this should therefore be studied in detail. i fully agree that this problem deserves further research and that we must carefully consider various non-regulatory methods of dealing with a number of the aspects raised in the report before we put forward a legislative proposal, namely: better cooperation and coordination between national authorities, inspections and other national law enforcement authorities, awareness of companies about good practice, existing guidelines and standards, social responsibility initiatives and transnational corporate agreements which already contain innovative provisions on risk assessment procedures and the supervision of subcontractors.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the eu-india free trade agreement [2008/2135(ini) ] (a6-0131/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for the keen interest it has shown in our negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and india. in particular, i am grateful to mr kamal and the committee on international trade for the excellent work done in preparing the report on the eu-india free trade agreement and the other associated committees afet and deve. the discussions with parliament have been very comprehensive and the draft resolution deals with almost all possible aspects of the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and india. the views expressed are a useful tool in our negotiations on free trade agreements. when referring to the eu-india free trade agreement, it is important to take into account the overall context and complexity of our strategic relations with india, including the 1994 cooperation agreement and the joint action plan to name just two of the major initiatives and dialogues we have established with india. we believe it is of the utmost importance to successfully negotiate and conclude an ambitious free trade agreement with india that will result in a win-win scenario for both parties, the european union and india. the more ambitious the free trade agreement, the greater the economic benefits that can be realised by both parties, the european union and india. this is one of the main conclusions of the impact and sustainable development study carried out by an independent consultant in parallel with the negotiations. the objective of the impact and sustainable development study was to analyse the economic, social and environmental impact of the future free trade agreement and to identify possible necessary accompanying measures. the impact and sustainability study is currently in its final phase and should be available in april, therefore well in time to support the ongoing negotiations. let me briefly inform you of the state of progress of these negotiations. six negotiating sessions have been held since the launch in june 2007, the sixth session was held last week in delhi from 17 to 19 march. we expect to agree on two more sessions this year, ideally after the indian elections in april and before the eu/india summit in november. as regards the substance of these negotiations, progress has been made on all the subjects covered by the free trade agreement, but there is still much work to be done. more concretely, we exchanged tariff offers, had good discussions on a few key service sectors and made progress on text discussions in almost all areas of the agreement. however, we are still far from an agreement. before concluding, i would like to express once again the commission's gratitude to parliament and to the rapporteur. the commission looks forward to further opportunities to cooperate effectively with parliament.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by katerina batzeli, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on food prices in europe [2008/2175(ini) ] (a6-0094/2009).
member of the commission. - i would first like to thank mrs batzeli and the members of the agri committee for drawing up this report, which is being debated with great difficulty at a crucial moment for the agri-food chain in the european union. as you all know, the recession has led to a sharp downturn in activity in most economic sectors in the european union. the agricultural sector is experiencing a real collapse in market prices which is seriously affecting farm incomes. the situation is particularly serious in high value-added sectors such as meat and dairy products. in this context, it is vital that the agri-food chain functions efficiently if the effects of the crisis on farm incomes are to be mitigated and consumers are to benefit from food products at lower prices. the agri-food chain and the question of food prices therefore remain the commission's main concerns. the analysis of structural factors raises fears of a further rise in the prices of agricultural raw materials in the medium and long term. by improving the functioning of the agri-food chain, it should be possible to avoid similar sharp increases in food prices in the future and to contain the volatility of consumer prices. i share most of the concerns expressed in the report about the need to improve the overall functioning of the agri-food chain. in particular, this will increase transparency across the supply chain, provide consumers with better information and improve the distribution of added value across the entire supply chain. since last year, the commission has taken a series of initiatives to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain. the high level group on the competitiveness of the agri-food industry has recently issued a set of strategic recommendations. a green paper on the quality of agricultural products was also presented last year. in the communication on food prices adopted last december, the commission also proposed, in the form of a roadmap, a number of formulas to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain in europe. it is absolutely vital that we move forward with the implementation of this roadmap. we must make progress in particular in setting up a permanent european observatory of the agri-food chain and food prices. by providing reliable information on prices across the supply chain, we can help to combat the lack of transparency and improve our knowledge of how the supply chain works. we must also go further in analysing the distribution of value added across the whole sector. this is a point to which i attach particular importance. as acknowledged in the food price communication, the asymmetry of bargaining power between agricultural producers and the rest of the industry weighs heavily on the margins of producers in the agricultural sector. it is clear that an effort to clarify and understand the question of the distribution of value added would be a first step towards rebalancing the bargaining power throughout the industry. it should be stressed in this connection that the competitiveness of the agri-food chain in the european union cannot be built at the expense of some of its components. it is essential that the agri-food industry and retailers can continue to rely on a sustainable and competitive agricultural production platform within the european union. i am convinced that once fully implemented, the road map proposed by the commission will enable us to respond to most of the questions and concerns raised in mrs batzeli's report.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by maria badia i cutchet, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on art studies in the european union [2008/2226(ini) ] (a6-0093/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs badia i cutchet for her own-initiative report on art studies in the european union. this is a subject which is becoming increasingly important at european level. in fact, everyone agrees that culture and the arts are the fundamental elements of education. they help to develop sensitivity and self-confidence, qualities which are necessary both as citizens and as economic agents within each of us. there's no doubt about it. art education is a vehicle for well-being, creativity and social integration. its promotion in the education systems of europe, from an early age, is essential. we share this vision and are pleased that your report refers to a number of significant initiatives at eu level, such as the european year of creativity and innovation. the importance of the arts and arts education in building a better society goes hand in hand with its impact on economic life. recent estimates put the contribution of the cultural and creative industries to economic wealth creation at 2.6% of european gdp. moreover, all economic activities can benefit from arts and cultural education, and innovation encourages the creation of synergies between traditional and more innovative fields of activity. today, we need to combine technology and design, integrating the principles of sustainability and economic viability. this combination requires a redefinition of the ways in which knowledge is transmitted and acquired. these aspects are highlighted in the european framework defining key competences for lifelong learning, which was established in 2006. in this context, it is established that artistic and cultural expressions are essential to the development of creative skills, which are of great use in professional life. the european agenda for culture has introduced new methods, including structured dialogue with civil society and, more recently, new open methods of coordination for culture. the implementation of these was made possible by an initial three-year work plan adopted by the council on 21 may 2008, which sets out five priority areas for action. in this context, a working group of experts from the member states was set up on the theme of synergies between culture and education. this group should develop recommendations to identify good practice at national level and should also make a number of recommendations to member states and european institutions. it should also provide methodological elements for the assessment of progress in the policy areas under its mandate. finally, the group should make an interesting contribution to the european forum on culture scheduled for 29 and 30 september 2009 in brussels. i have just read a reply from my colleague, mr figel.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr gyula hegyi, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the active dialogue with citizens on europe [2008/2224(ini) ] (a6-0107/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, allow me to make a brief digression, but this is entirely personal and has nothing to do with the question my colleague asked me. i do not understand clearly your wish to see ngos involved in the election campaign. i don't understand, but i'll pass that request on to my colleague. the current political and economic situation obviously increases the need for an active dialogue with citizens. they must be informed of developments in the european union which directly or indirectly affect their daily lives and must be able to take part in them. this is the basis on which the commission has worked over the last four years. i warmly welcome the report by mr gyula hegyi entitled 'an active dialogue with citizens on europe'. we strive to provide citizens of the 27 member states of the european union with a wide range of basic knowledge about the european union so that they can not only understand how the european union could contribute to addressing the major challenges facing europe and the world today, but also exchange and compare their views on the subject. we are also looking to create many more accessible forums to host this debate by all means and through all technologies available today: online forums, in the media and at the local level. while agreeing with many of the recommendations in the report, my colleague says 'i cannot agree that communication has not worked so far'. it also says that 'our communication has certainly improved in recent years', but it is necessary to be realistic about what can be done with a budget of only around €100 million for 27 member states, 23 languages and almost 500 million people. moreover, the commission certainly cannot be the only one to communicate with citizens about europe. it requires a collective effort on the part of all the institutions and all the member states. that is why we have negotiated an agreement with the member states and parliament to communicate together on europe. this political agreement, entitled 'communicating europe in partnership', was signed on 22 october 2008. this is the first time that the institutions of the member states of the european union have made a joint commitment to communicate together about europe with the citizens of the european union. it is now important that we implement this agreement fully. i fully agree with the importance of the process of consulting citizens and the need to extend the dialogue to all levels of society. the regular dialogue between the commission and civil society representatives began more than thirty years ago. it takes account of the commission's long-standing policy of openness and inclusion and illustrates the wide variety of policy areas and the diversity of stakeholders. i would like to stress that the cooperation between the commission representations and the information offices of parliament in the member states is working very well overall. the forthcoming european elections are a very good example of the political will of the two institutions to work together to establish joint communication priorities. as regards the need for information at local and regional level, particularly for young people, first-time voters and women, i note with satisfaction the commendation given to the commission for the choice of projects under plan d. i take this opportunity to announce that the commission also plans to carry out, in the context of the european elections, special activities under the 'd' programme of the debate europe initiative. as regards the creation of a new website and the establishment of links with local television stations, i would like to point out that the commission is setting up networks of radio and television operators to broadcast programmes on european issues. once all of them are operational, these networks together with euronews will reach between 60 and 90 million citizens every week in all the languages of the european union. as regards the importance of introducing european law and european history into school curricula, the commission shares the view that young people should learn the essential facts about the european union in school. we hope that the member states will follow up this suggestion on this important issue. there are many other interesting suggestions worth considering, but unfortunately we have little time. let me conclude by returning to a key aspect of the efforts of the community institutions: effective communication is only possible if all the actors involved cooperate closely. the commission appreciates the continuing support it receives from parliament. i, for my part, pay tribute to your personal commitment as a member of the european parliament.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mrs cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on combating female genital mutilation in the eu [2008/2071(ini) ] (a6-0054/2009).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is particularly appropriate that commissioner michel, who we know is always very attentive to human rights problems and the tragedies that are developing in africa, should take part in this debate. and it is precisely the presence of commissioner michel that gives me hope that the commission can be particularly attentive to a problem which today is no longer limited to the 28 african countries and several countries in the middle east and also neighbouring countries, it is a problem which is particularly acute today within the european union itself. the great immigration that has taken place in recent years has brought this tragedy to the countries of the european union as well. every day tens of thousands of girls and teenagers are at risk of a horrific practice that will permanently damage them physically, but also severely damage them mentally. that is why - after parliament had already spoken out on other occasions in previous years and had even given, through dafne, funding to 14 projects to combat female sexual handicaps - that is why we are again dealing with this issue today, because unfortunately the phenomenon has not regressed, it has not diminished, but is still expanding. we must have the courage to use a more appropriate and serious prevention through cultural campaigns that give immigrant women, but also the fathers of these girls, the knowledge that it is not by following a tribal ritual, that it has nothing to do with religion, that neither integration nor a future for their daughters can be achieved. let us think of a girl who goes to school in france, italy or belgium and who, after socializing with her peers, is suddenly torn from her normal life and forced to suffer a tragedy that marks her for the rest of her life. this child will not only be physically handicapped, but will be unable to relate properly to other people, will feel diminished, different and we do not want different in this society. we want people who, regardless of religion, colour or geographical origin, can work together to build a better europe that is closer to its citizens. that is why, mr president and commissioner, we as a parliament - and i would like to thank all the ladies in the committee who helped me to draw up this report - want the laws of all the countries in europe to be harmonized so that sexual harassment of women is identified as a crime. we also do not want palliative measures such as the so-called "puncture" to be proposed. we want women to be truly equal to men, that there be no initiation rites, but that there be true integration. we want the ngos to be able to work, we want prevention to involve the associations of immigrant women, we want to punish anyone who wants to maim the girls and drag them into a perverse spiral of despair and marginalisation. there are many points in the report which i think our colleagues have had a chance to examine and evaluate. i believe that an appeal to the strong will of a europe which brings together its three institutions to combat this horrible crime which violates human rights must be the aim of everyone.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank mrs muscardini, not only on behalf of my colleague but also on my own behalf, for her speech, because i think she is pointing to a drama and a scandal at the same time. i really want to thank mrs muscardini for her excellent report on this major issue of combating female genital mutilation in the european union. the european commission has very clearly denounced, both within the union and in third countries, the unacceptability of traditional practices which seriously undermine the fundamental right of women and girls to respect for their physical and mental integrity. we are of course in full agreement with the report. we believe that all the member states of the european union should take strong measures. i would add much more forcefully, because it is quite unacceptable and quite incredible that this can still exist within the european union, in order to prevent such practices both in the european union and in third countries. we must also ensure that in all our political dialogues with third countries they understand our position. i want to take a moment to say that in all the political dialogues we have with the developing countries in particular, i can assure you that this is always on the agenda. very recently, president compaoré of burkina faso called me and said that they were about to pass a law banning these practices, which is not obvious. you have to know that there are obviously some clans and some tribes that still practice this and it's a rather sensitive subject in the country, but he really had the will to move forward and i think that's important. you are also aware that the commission regularly allocates community funds to support projects in europe and in third countries aimed at preventing and eradicating female genital mutilation and at helping victims and girls at risk. in europe, the main instrument we have at our disposal is the daphne iii programme, which supports european non-governmental organisations, as well as local or regional public institutions and authorities, in their fight against female genital mutilation. since its launch in 1997, daphne has co-financed 14 projects specifically dedicated to this issue, amounting to some eur 2.4 million. daphne projects have enabled the implementation of community training and support programmes, awareness raising, analysis of national legislation, collection of information and statistics, development of tools and best practice for actors on the ground and recommendation of policy guidelines to european and national decision-makers. we are of course determined to maintain our support for such actions and to continue to address the issue within the european union, not only in the context of violence prevention and victim assistance, but also in the areas of immigration, asylum and criminal justice. i am again moving away from the text, but quickly. i must say that i am quite shocked by a certain cowardice on the part of our governments and also of some politicians who consider that this is part of the culture and as such, it cannot be touched. i am sorry, but the least we can do for people coming to our european countries is to respect the rules in force. i think we can't have justice, we can't have a two-speed concept. this does not affect - on the contrary - the capacity of a european country to receive refugees. it is a debate that i myself experienced in my country at a certain time. i must say that i am shocked that some people, under the pretext of respect for the culture of the migrant, refuse to criminalize such things. i think that if we are to resolve this question at least within europe, we must get to that point. we must have political courage and i do not think it is a sign of a lack of acceptance in our countries to say: 'this is our constitution, these are our rules, these are our human values, you must respect them. if you do not, you are breaking the law and must be punished". i'm closing the parenthesis, but it felt good to say it because i totally share your irritation about this subject. in its external aid to third countries, the commission also applies three policies to combat female genital mutilation. firstly, it makes the issue of women's empowerment, their human rights and their health an integral part of the political and strategic dialogue it has with its partner governments, as i have already said. secondly, it supports advocacy and lobbying for the improvement of national legislation and the development of appropriate national policies for the promotion and protection of women's rights and the prohibition of all harmful practices. thirdly, it supports initiatives to strengthen the capacity of policy-makers and awareness-raising activities for all sectors of society. the hague multiannual programme, which covers the various actions to be carried out in order to develop the area of justice, freedom and security, expires in 2010. we will present the new stockholm programme 2010-2014 in a communication in the spring of 2009. i can assure you that this programme will place a great deal of emphasis on the protection of fundamental rights and victims, including the promotion and protection of the rights of children and women. although the commission has not yet developed a specific strategy to combat female genital mutilation, we are firmly committed to continuing our support for actions to prevent it and intend to continue to raise this issue in the framework of the union's internal and external policies.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr vasco graça moura, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on multilingualism: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's external action programmes.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr graça moura for his own-initiative report on multilingualism. this report supports the commission's approach and emphasises the quality of language teaching and teachers, an integrated approach to reach all sections of our society, linguistic diversity, while facilitating people's understanding of the role of the media and literary translation and linguistic and cultural links with the third country. i share the rapporteur's view that multilingualism has a major impact on the daily lives of european citizens, given the abundance of communications, increasing mobility and migration and the advance of globalisation. the principle of mother tongue+2 and the learning of foreign languages at an early age remain the reference points of our multilingualism policy. our approach is based on this. it reinforces the importance of lifelong learning and aims to include the most vulnerable groups in our society. i am talking in particular of people who have dropped out of school, immigrants and people who are monolingual or less proficient in another language. we also want to strengthen our efforts with regard to apprentices, adults and older people who are no longer in education and who are at risk of being left behind in development. i'm glad you're supporting our approach. to reach these groups, the motivation of individuals and the implementation of appropriate teaching methods are essential. new technologies, such as the internet and interactive audiovisual media, offer multiple opportunities to reach these groups and to develop and adapt teaching methods to their specific needs and abilities. at european level, our lifelong learning programme promotes all languages: the official languages of the european union, regional and minority languages, and other languages spoken around the world. this reflects the new reality within the union and the linguistic needs of our citizens. in a context of increased mobility and migration, it is essential to master the national language or languages in order to be able to integrate fully into society. however, i would like to remind you in this context that it is the member states who are the main decision-makers in terms of language policy, including regional and minority languages, the framework of which is defined by the european charter for regional or minority languages of the council of europe. i welcome the general support that parliament is expressing for our approach to multilingualism.
the presentation is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the roszkowski report highlights the disparity between the various rural areas and between them and the urban areas in the management of the structural funds. the rapporteur rightly points out the need to restore coherence between the erdf and the eafrd, although perhaps the term 'open coordination' should be clarified, as it contrasts with the obvious disparities and gaps in national competence. for better cohesion, we need transparency on data and payments. knowing how resources are allocated is an essential tool for identifying and correcting distortions. unfortunately, there is no such transparency. in practice, we see a wide range of activities to conceal data, to deny access and to conceal information, all of which are carried out by public bodies and national governments themselves. the commission says it is not competent and everything becomes hushed up and impalpable. we're told we're facing a rubber wall. if we do not solve this problem, we will be further and further removed from the real problems which the structural funds are supposed to solve.
thank you, mr. ryan. i haven't been particularly harsh because we actually have a little bit more time than the norm. but i wanted to say something before i caught your eye, that this morning a very important event opened up in this parliament, which was opened by president pöttering, and which concerns a european organisation called flare, which has members in more than thirty countries, where young people and not only young people are extremely committed to fighting organised crime and to making sure that the assets confiscated from organised crime are used for social work. in this parliament there is also a commitment made by the president of the european parliament and the committee on freedom and justice and here, amongst others, among us on the stage, there are some of these young people who, i believe, do europe honour because together with us they are trying to make europe a europe free from racism, but also free from organised crime. so i also want to say hello to them, who are here and who are on this stage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his report. the subject is very sensitive because of the implications it may have on the economic system of the various countries of the union. the linking of the new agricultural fund for rural development to the cap can have positive and negative aspects depending on the use to which the fund is put. in some ways this will allow for more efficient use of these funds and that is certainly good news. i agree with the rapporteur, however, that we are on a very fine line and there is also the risk that the funds will be used only to improve the competitiveness of agriculture at the expense of other sectors in rural areas. rural areas need strong investment to boost the economy, structural and agri-food investment, training of young farmers, who are the engine of the rural economy, as well as training for women living in these areas and investment in the information technology sector to introduce young people to new technologies. the risk is that the funds will be misused. that is why i remain convinced that common sense must prevail in order to avoid a misallocation of funds, because the impact of the rural economy could be very heavy in europe.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
colleagues, may i have your attention? there is a request for a word, perhaps there will be more. i take it for granted, knowing the contents, that the statements just made by the rapporteur will not be shared by some of my colleagues, but as you know, there is no provision for the rapporteur to speak for two minutes, there is no provision for the debate to be opened. i am therefore not in a position to speak when the debate is reopened, unless there is a request for a motion of order to intervene under the rules of procedure. if that is the case, mr guardans has the floor, and i shall not be rude if i take it away from him as soon as i realise that this is not a point of order on a point of order.
thank you, your honor. we shall now proceed to the vote. i put amendment no 1 to the vote by roll call, the vote is open.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was just asking whether you do not think it is silly to be able to drop a person's report and present an identical one, when amendments were tabled under the old system. so an invitation to review our regulations which is creating incredible confusion and official injustice.
i shall take it upon myself to put this matter back to the bureau, although you know that some of the regulatory powers are taken away from the bureau and exercised by the coordination of the group leaders, but whoever has to decide whether this is nonsense remains nonsense, it certainly does not change.
mr doyle, if i had known you would remember the wooden spoon for the italians i would not have given you the floor on this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor, and i express my full support for the attention paid today by parliament to a subject as important as the right to health, the right to sexual identity, the protection of the psychological life and the psychophysical integrity of women, which are very often violated by these practices which are gynecophobic. europe stands out for its commitment to human rights, as we have just heard from the honourable member who preceded me. there are infant and female deaths due to these absolutely unacceptable practices. europe is right to make a commitment to this end and to demonstrate the great responsibility it bears to harmonize legislation in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that our colleague has done a very good job with the graça moura report. i hope that you will accept our requests, which are merely a procedural matter with this system - and this has already been raised by mrs muscardini today - that you cannot put two almost identical reports to the vote and then penalise the rapporteur, which is what happened to me in this case and what i did not want. that is why i would like to emphasize once again the great positive work of my colleague graça moura, even though it was accepted with my vote. the other resolution. my vote was not a rejection of the graça moura report, but something quite different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i accept many of the reservations expressed in this report about the european union's encouragement of the preservation and development of indigenous languages, although the overall philosophy of relations deserves attention and support, because today, faced with these problems, which have been rightly raised, we run an even greater risk of seeing the death of european languages through the homologation of spoken and written english, which is also being imposed in this house. this is a very serious risk that must be addressed. the rights of local languages must not be forgotten. the national languages are dying, they are finding it difficult to express themselves, but the local languages are disappearing in a truly shameful way, and they must be defended, as with the federalist reform in our country we are trying to propose and implement. is the european union doing all that needs to be done to defend indigenous languages? we have just heard mrs lo curto speak. it would certainly be very nice to hear her speak sometimes, because she certainly knows it, in the beautiful sardinian language. i would like to speak in piedmontese sometimes, but in our own parliament there are no documents, journals, etc., in the library on culture relating to languages, culture of identity and local languages. so europe, before it worries about protecting the languages of those outside the community from being homologated, should worry about our minorities and our local languages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borghezio, i am sicilian and sicily is the cradle and the land of great civilization and great history and we hope that it will be able to write a future which is starting with autonomy and so i can only agree with the need for greater attention to those mother tongues which we must learn to speak more and more and, above all, to transmit to our children. i imagine above all the history of emigration that has taken place in italy, but i believe also in other countries, and which today brings and risks bringing new generations of these sicilians, as well as venetians, sardinians and many others in europe who have undergone this process in the past, to not remember, to no longer be able to speak sardinian, sicilian or venetian respectively. i therefore call, mr president, for this great institutional theatre of europe to become also the cradle of these diversities and of these autonomous identities which i hope in the europe of the regions which we shall learn to celebrate in the future will see us increasingly as protagonists also through our languages.
i would like to say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that i voted for the van nistelrooij report, but i also take this opportunity, for the few spectators who have remained, to say that those who have now criticised the european union so widely and the way in which it is being conducted, instead of continuing to go around the european union, to their constituencies, talking badly about the union, would give much more objective information and would certainly create a completely different atmosphere. as for van nistelrooij, cohesion policy was born in this direction to create solidarity, cooperation and, especially in this period of crisis, i believe that the european regions, not only the nations but also the regions, must cooperate, increase their positions and improve their standard of living. that is why i think that the van nistelrooij report deserved a very favourable vote.
mr kamall, as you can see, you are the only one in the chamber!
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mr costa on the ec-nepal agreement on certain aspects of air services. i agree with the rapporteur that the passenger and freight fares of aircraft designated by nepal for transport entirely within the european union are subject to community law. i am also in favour of taxing aviation fuel for operations carried out in the community.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr geringer de oedenberg on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. i agree with the commission's proposal for the codification of existing legislation, as supplemented by technical adjustments.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr geringer de oedenberg on the community system of duty-free allowances. i agree with the proposal to codify existing legislation in order to ensure a good level of simplification and clarity in the wording of community legislation.
in writing. - i wish to abstain on the report by mrs pietikäinen on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank: i am only partially in agreement with the report in question, and i find some criticisms which do not allow me to express a fully positive opinion.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the maria martens report. in the light of the joint strategy adopted in 2007 to achieve a more bilateral approach by placing the eu and africa on a more equal footing, i support the importance of this strategy, which aims to bring dialogue and cooperation 'beyond development', 'beyond africa' and 'beyond institutions', with increased eu-africa cooperation in international bodies and in multilateral negotiations on issues such as human rights and climate change. i agree that the european union and africa must work to make international institutions such as the world bank, the international monetary fund and the world trade organisation more democratic and representative, thereby ensuring that africa can exert an influence commensurate with its size. the report highlights four areas where effective results are particularly important for the success of the joint strategy, namely peace and security, governance in the broadest sense, trade issues, economic and regional communities and capital flight, and key development issues such as health and education. they also agree with the call for a specific financial instrument for the implementation of the joint strategy, which would centralise all existing funding resources in a clear, predictable and programmable way.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mrs martens on the eu-africa partnership. i disagree with the approach adopted, which is often inadequate to accommodate the needs of the african counterpart, including both the institutions and the private sector: in this context, it is also appropriate that greater efforts be made on the african side to encourage the genuine involvement of broad strata of civil society in the implementation of the partnership agreements. the partnership strategy implemented so far has produced only modest results, far short of the expectations and objectives it set itself, and since the first action plan extends to 2010, i believe that it will not be possible to achieve these objectives. for these reasons i reiterate my opposition to the report.
in writing. o i support the report by mr alain hutchinson and fully support the call on the commission to continue to link its aid in the areas of health and education, in particular basic health and primary education, to the results achieved in these areas and to improve the predictability of financial aid through the implementation of mdg contracts. they also agree on the importance of being able to extend the principles deriving from these contracts to a greater number of countries, as the mdg contract has as its main objective to contribute to improving the effectiveness of aid and accelerating progress towards the mdgs for the countries that need them most. i believe it is of the utmost importance that the commission makes its financial aid conditional on achievements in the field of good governance and transparency, but also on the defence and respect of human rights, in particular those of the poorest and the most marginalized such as the disabled, minorities, women and children, and to ensure that financial aid is not spent in areas other than those defined in the mdg agreement.
in writing. - i wish to abstain on the report by mr hutchinson on contracts relating to the millennium development goals: i agree with some of the points raised and cannot therefore give my full approval to the text.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote is in favour. "all children are born artists. the challenge is to remain so as you grow up". with these words pablo picasso described the difficulties of artistic training. at present, although it is a compulsory subject in many school systems, art education continues to be taught according to learning models which vary considerably from one member state to another. the development of new information and communication technologies has stimulated a knowledge-based economy, allowing intellectual capacity and creativity to play a leading role. in this context, arts education plays an important role in preserving identity and promoting intercultural and interreligious understanding. art education is also the tool for developing the human resources needed to exploit the rich cultural heritage of a country. in addition, there is a growing need for competitiveness in many areas, with various school systems now giving priority to the development of creativity through educational programmes based on appropriate pedagogical methods and able to ensure that pupils have a significant potential for later entry into the world of work.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs badia i cutchet on art studies in the european union. i believe that at the present time, when our societies are becoming more and more heterogeneous, culture is of fundamental importance as a means of preserving identities and at the same time improving the coexistence between different peoples and cultures. i agree that art is a manifestation of culture and allows to develop both the cultural wealth of a country and society in general: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in view of the importance of the arts, i am therefore in favour of coordination at european level of their teaching in schools.
in writing. - i wish to abstain on the report by mr hegyi on active dialogue with citizens on europe. in fact, while i agree with some of the text presented, i do not agree with several points which i consider important: i therefore cannot give my full support to the report.
in writing. - i express my negative opinion on the report by mr cornillet on the activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2008. i think that the work done in the working sessions so far has not always been satisfactory, and that on some important subjects no resolution has been adopted. in addition, the negotiations undertaken by the assembly have in some cases led to the conclusion of partnership agreements which have not produced good results for either the european union or the counterparts. i therefore express my negative opinion of the report.
in writing. - i vote against the report by mrs krehl on best practice in regional policy and obstacles to the use of the structural funds. i am convinced that the proposals in this report do not represent a chance to improve the functioning of regional policy, which is a very important policy to combat unbalanced development within the european union and which enjoys strong financial support. i believe, in particular, that the exchange of good practice cannot be the solution to the problem of the most efficient use of structural resources and that it cannot really contribute to the development of innovative projects.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr roszkowski on the complementarity and coordination of cohesion policy and rural development measures. i doubt, in particular, that support for non-agricultural activities in rural regions is the most effective way of strengthening territorial cohesion. i think that this is a threat to direct aid to agriculture, and that it is causing serious imbalances in the socioeconomic situation of rural areas.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs roth-behrendt on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on cosmetic products. i fully agree that in order to increase the safety of cosmetic products, in order to ensure the protection and health of all consumers, specific control instruments must be clearly defined. i also agree with the honourable member that in order to strengthen the control mechanism so as to ensure independent evaluation, the responsibility for declarations concerning cosmetic products should be entrusted to an independent organisation.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mrs sârbu on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/8/ec concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market as regards the extension of certain time periods. given the delicate and laborious process of evaluating active substances used in biocidal products, i agree with the rapporteur that the transitional period should be extended to four years instead of three, in order to give the industry the time it needs to fulfil its tasks.
in writing. i am voting against the report by mr becsey on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 92/79/eec, 92/80/eec and 95/59/ec as regards the structure and rates of excise duty on manufactured tobacco. i do not approve of this proposal because i think it would weaken the commission's proposal. as a result, the achievement of the planned targets of contributing to the reduction of tobacco consumption by 10% by 2014 would be hampered.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. a wild and illegal practice, practised mainly in africa, has been quietly introduced into europe through immigration to the old continent over the last thirty years. the who data is clear: female genital mutilation (fgm) is widespread in 28 african countries, the middle east and some asian countries. some 100 to 140 million women and girls worldwide have been subjected to the practice, while 4 million are potentially at risk. fgm is a handicap to the process of european integration, as well as a denigration of gender equality. the european parliament, which has been committed for years to affirming the fundamental rights of all citizens, had already adopted a resolution on the subject in 2001, but it is time to take a step forward by also supporting the dafne iii programme which has so far funded 14 projects on fgm, outlining priorities for the prevention and elimination of fgm in europe. one of the areas where action needs to be stepped up is the prevention of this practice against girls, and to this end, intervention that can identify children at risk is crucial, making prevention with families through psychological support.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mrs muscardini on the fight against female genital mutilation in the eu. i consider these practices to be egregious violations of the human right to privacy. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that a sound strategy should be put in place to prevent and eliminate fgm.
in writing. - i have spoken out in favour of multilingualism on several occasions, and i think my position is quite clear. the linguistic and cultural diversity of the european union is a huge competitive advantage. i believe it is essential to promote programmes for language teaching and cultural and student exchange both within and outside the community, as i did when i supported the erasmus mundus programme. multilingualism is essential for effective communication and is a tool to facilitate understanding between people and, consequently, the acceptance of differences and minorities. linguistic diversity, as a consequence of media penetration, increasing mobility, migration and the advance of cultural globalisation, also affects important aspects of the daily lives of the citizens of the european union. the acquisition of a diverse range of language skills is crucial for all eu citizens, as it enables them to take full advantage of the economic, social and cultural benefits of free movement within the union and in its relations with third countries. language is a key factor in social inclusion. europe's linguistic diversity is therefore a fundamental cultural asset and it would be wrong for the european union to limit itself to one main language.
in writing. - i support the report by mr moura on multilingualism as a resource for europe and a common commitment. in particular, as a university professor, i strongly support the proposal to promote programmes for language teaching and cultural and student exchange, such as the well-known youth mobility programmes. these projects, managed by the commission's education and culture dg, enable students to significantly increase their educational background, thus contributing to the eu's journey towards a knowledge-based society.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr van nistelrooij on territorial cohesion and the state of play of the debate on the future reform of cohesion policy on the green paper on territorial cohesion and the state of play of the debate on the future. the reasons for my disagreement stem from a different view of territorial cohesion, and i do not feel that i agree with the rapporteur's views.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr vlasák on the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period. while i understand the importance of sustainable urban development, i believe it is difficult to achieve this without a common definition of 'urban areas'.
in writing. - i express my negative opinion on the report by mr mikolášik on the implementation of the structural funds regulation for the period 2007-2013: the outcome of the negotiations on national strategies and programmes for cohesion policy.
in writing. - i wish to abstain on the report by mr becsey on the european initiative for the development of microcredit for growth and employment. i agree with some of the points in the report, but i am strongly opposed to several others and for that reason i cannot give my full support to the text presented, confirming my abstention.
we shall now conclude with the explanations of vote. we will resume our work at 3 p.m. with statements on the preparation of the g20 summit. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am glad to see the prime minister here. in view of the little consideration with which he viewed the eu and the european parliament for a long time, i take his presence here as a good sign that people can change. i am also confident that, perhaps, after today, prime minister, you will announce the end of a couple of opt-outs or even, as my friend graham watson said, announce the entry of the uk in the euro. however, i have to remind you that on most of the issues you mentioned – democratic reforms, social issues, the working time directive, taxes – your government was on the wrong side. signor presidente, onorevoli colleghi, primo ministro, lei è responsabile con un buon numero di suoi colleghi e con il nostro presidente barroso del fatto che l'unione europea non dispone degli strumenti di regolamentazione finanziaria e delle politiche fiscali e di bilancio che oggi sarebbero così preziose per permetterci di affrontare la crisi. è bene ricordarselo, perché quando si vuole essere credibili nel proporre soluzioni è buona creanza ammettere che prima si era sbagliato. allora guardiamo alla credibilità di questa crociata contro i paradisi fiscali. sembrano un obiettivo molto facile, tutti li detestano, però la realtà è un po' diversa. viene perfino il sospetto che se ne parli tanto perché non si trova un accordo per parlare di molto altro. primo ministro, noi pensiamo che bisogna smettere di pensare che non è possibile limitare la libera circolazione dei capitali, che non si possono ridirigere in modo virtuoso i milioni di euro sprecati in speculazioni. noi dobbiamo fermare, non regolare l'azione dei fondi speculativi. dobbiamo riportare le banche a fare quello per cui sono state inventate in toscana molti secoli fa, finanziare l'economia reale. non basta rafforzare la sorveglianza dei mercati, dobbiamo diminuire la rentabilità di coloro che speculano. bisogna ricordarsi che la mafia oggi ha a disposizione 120 miliardi di euro nei forzieri dei paradisi fiscali. dobbiamo puntare decisamente sulla doppia dichiarazione e sulla doppia trasparenza: chi deposita denaro in un altro paese lo deve dichiarare. le banche che ricevono depositi li devono dichiarare. non ci sono vie di mezzo. il resto sono chiacchiere e temo che di chiacchiere saremo sepolti se il g20 non arriverà a un risultato più forte dei balbettamenti che si sentono in giro. primo ministro, esattamente come il suo predecessore, lei ha speso qui delle parole forti e commoventi nella lingua di shakespeare, però, come lui, ha poche proposte concrete. ha parlato di riconversione ecologica dell'ambiente. eppure nel piano del suo governo, solo il 7% degli investimenti vanno a investimenti verdi, mentre la corea del sud e la cina e perfino gli stati uniti stanno correndo ad una velocità che le nostre belle parole non potranno coprire. ha parlato di copenaghen, ma ancora una volta il consiglio europeo non si è trovato d'accordo su un fondo per il clima per i paesi in via di sviluppo. eppure lei sa benissimo che senza un impegno finanziario importante, copenaghen è destinato all'insuccesso e con copenaghen anche le nostre ambizioni di governare i cambiamenti climatici. nice speech, mr brown, but what are you ready to do, really? (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to thank you for both reports, which we greens can support. we are in favour of the expansion of the eib's activities in the developing countries. we have long advocated that eib project finance be geared to social and environmental standards and respect for human rights. the community guarantees for eib projects are intended to make this a practical reality. i am grateful to the committee on budgets for taking up this matter and for successfully bringing it to the attention of the council. the eib is a very important instrument within the eu to steer social, environmental and economic development in the member states. i would ask that, even more than in the past, all projects supported by the eib be subject to a rigorous examination of whether they are truly eco-social and economically sustainable. this is particularly important in the current financial and economic crisis. it would be a grave mistake, for example, to support major projects such as the messina bridge or the brenner base tunnel for high-speed passenger trains. these projects are machine and capital intensive. the labour market and environmental impact are much more favourable to promoting the modernisation and expansion of existing infrastructure. quantitative growth is the result of an outdated philosophy of "faster, higher, further". we need an ecosocial policy that is sustainable for people and the environment. thank you, thank you!
in writing. the eib's role has become increasingly important in implementing european development and cohesion policies. while the eib has been criticised in the past for being somewhat out of step with the economic and social cohesion objectives pursued by the european union, and for concentrating its assistance mainly on public bodies, a change of direction is now emerging in the context of the 2007-13 development and cohesion outlook. by working more closely with the european commission, it is now a modern and dynamic bank, with a wide range of financial projects designed to help bring social and economic balance to europe's less favoured regions. as regards the modernisation of assistance, we are particularly pleased to note the instruments to support smes, which will be able to increase their investments thanks to better access to the financial market. the package of measures defined by the european commission to assist smes at community level and which are being implemented can be given added value and an acceleration by the eib for the start-up or development of their activities, since they are the main and non-sub-contractable source of new jobs in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 march 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission's statement on the future of the motor vehicle industry is on the agenda.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the car crisis is one of the most serious in the world manufacturing industry because, in addition to having serious economic and employment repercussions on european factories and industry, it affects non-community countries where production has been increasingly displaced in recent decades. the union cannot bear the social cost of cutting some 350 000 jobs in order to restore the sector to at least its 2007 level of profitability. i would therefore welcome at least harmonised aid to the sector, provided that it is combined with the safeguarding of employment. the keywords for european enterprises must be research and advanced technology. it is obvious that in the evolution of the market the use of mergers or strategic agreements is another possible way forward, but this is not at the expense of the european tradition of the car, the flagship of the community manufacturing industry.
i am sorry to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. we are discussing this when certain choices have already been made by national governments outside a genuine european context, and the social consequences are already dramatic in terms of unemployment and social integration. the text of the resolution does not contain any essential elements for the measures to be taken to be effective and fair. i would point out that europe, as a real political actor, had acted very differently on climate a few months ago. that is not happening in the economic crisis. it has been left to governments who have acted in a disconnected way and, i would say, with some electoral logic. this is of course due to the political weakness of the barroso commission, but also to the difficulties in dealing with situations which require a new capacity for intervention with choices concerning industrial, social and employment policies. can we expect nationalistic measures? can a wave of redundancies be expected in the presence of aid to enterprises? can we continue to have relocations in the car and related sectors, as in the italian case of itono and now with the indesit case, which concerns another key sector? can the use of european funds be expanded without increasing them? so it's not enough to say there's a car problem and that there's been a lot of meetings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my group has tabled amendments to all these. we need a new policy, one that europe has not shown to have and which we must implement before the social disadvantage becomes so dramatic that we cannot build certain answers for our workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak on this subject because in recent months i have followed very closely the work that has been carried out in the european parliament, in our committees and then in the house, concerning precisely the specific commitments that we have asked of the car manufacturers of our continent. we set important targets, particularly on co2, when we asked them to participate in the major targets that europe has set for co2 reduction in the coming years, ambitious targets that all countries in the world are looking at with great interest. we have asked the automotive industry to have an average reduction of 120 mg by 2012 and another 25 mg by 2020. these are important objectives that require significant investment. i would add to this the fact, already mentioned by some of my colleagues, that the automobile sector directly and indirectly employs 12 million workers in europe, or 6% of employment in europe. if europe is serious about giving its car industry the means to achieve the co2 targets we have set and if we want to defend jobs which are a problem for our continent at the moment, we need a coordinated strategy to help this sector. several member states are launching plans to encourage sales, which is in line with maintaining fleet renewal levels. however, these policies must be part of a single community strategy to avoid dangerous market distortions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third debate we have had on the car in a few months. our requests have not yet been adequately answered by the commission and the council, either in terms of supporting demand or in terms of external competition with adequate export support. while i believe that european action to deal with the financial crisis is significant, i believe that, contrary to the conclusions of the recent summit, the european response to the recession and the difficulties of the real economy is insufficient. we are at war and our soldiers, who are our enterprises, have their weapons loaded to the hilt. the automobile sector is a fundamental sector of our industry, subject to new needs, reorganization of production factors and strong innovative process and product requirements. coordinated european scrapping incentives against all protectionism, refinancing of credit lines by the european bank for investment in this sector, incentives only for eco-friendly cars and hybrid engines, more research funds for clean engines and strong action within the world trade organisation to create conditions of genuine reciprocity in the world car market are the most significant demands of those who do not want to promote the deindustrialization of europe in one of its crucial sectors with high added value and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner verheugen has stressed the need to be very careful that protectionist measures are not proposed or supported. i would remind him that across the atlantic these measures are being taken and obviously favour the competitors of european producers. i have the impression that the strategy pursued by the european union so far is not sufficiently focused, as it should be in a critical situation such as the present one, on supporting exclusively or mainly the 'european' car, designed and built here in europe. i have heard from trade unionists crocodile tears about deindustrialization, relocation and so on. when someone like myself, at the assembly of even a large italian car manufacturer, made these claims years ago, they were not taken very seriously. today, unfortunately, the facts are right. if europe limits itself to measures designed to stimulate demand, which can of course also be directed at non-european producers, it will not achieve the results that are needed, and to achieve them it is urgent to stimulate the production of european cars. european manufacturers must be encouraged to invest in research to ensure the future of an excellent industrial sector, including the car industry, which is also suffering today from a policy of financial restraint by european banking institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the timely commitment of the commission and the council to support the car industry and the manufacturers of motor vehicles and their components, which is not yet sufficient. after the first measures taken by the member states, the sector has recovered slightly: the italian figure shows a -18% fall in sales in february, compared with a 22% fall in january. of course, given the data mentioned by commissioner verheugen himself, europe must go further by providing additional eib financing and increasingly coordinating national measures to avoid unfair and discriminatory competition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in the light of the dramatic figures on redundancies and the measures to integrate the cash-flow, i ask the commission to make more decisive proposals on the better use of the social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the car industry is one of the key sectors of the european economy and one which is very much at risk in the current crisis. this is not the time to say that we must be against protectionism and unfair competition. all of this is terribly obvious. the time has come to give european producers and workers clear and bold strategic assurances, with a support plan, i stress, which gives all member states the same opportunities. the objectives certainly include ensuring better use of european funds, including the globalisation fund, but above all simplifying and increasing financial support to the sector through the eib and the ecb to access low-interest loans, also simplifying administrative procedures. i would conclude by saying that more generally the aim is to maintain the competitiveness of the sector and to ensure that all the initiatives at european level, in addition to addressing the current emergency, can help to open a positive phase of restructuring and transformation of the automotive industry.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i welcome the creation of the single european sky and am reasonably confident that it will improve efficiency and safety, while also reducing the environmental impact of aviation. it is also worth mentioning that italy has already launched the 'blue med' programme, with cyprus, greece and malta, a functional airspace block which improves the efficiency of flights and allows for a reduction in costs by eliminating the fragmentation of the skies over a large part of the mediterranean. in short, when we try to increase transparency - i would like to say this to the honourable member who preceded me - and introduce forms of incentive for the efficiency of services, we can only be satisfied. finally, the objective of optimising airport management is also welcome, and i hope that something will soon be done to improve airport services for passengers, which, as in the case of rome airport, are often unsatisfactory. i thank mr marinescu for the excellent report and the commission for the initiative.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact of which we are speaking is very clear and obvious. there are about 500 million active mobile phones in europe and there are 30 different types of chargers. the technical reason for this difference is: i don't know. there is no technical justification. it is only a source, on the one hand, of unfair speculation by manufacturers and, on the other, it is an obvious environmental damage because, because of this trap set to the detriment of consumers, there are hundreds of millions of phone chargers that are dispersed into the environment with a rotation every two or three years. the european commission, commissioner verheugen, has already responded very promptly to a question from us asking for action to standardise these instruments and so we are here today to ask the commissioner where we are. one possible way is self-regulation, i.e. that the manufacturers of mobile phones and therefore of chargers can agree in a very short time to impose a standard that puts an end to this really ridiculous and harmful situation. but let us say at once, commissioner verheugen, that whatever guarantees of self-regulation the manufacturers want to give, we will have to be very clear in intervening with regulation in the event that this response is not sufficient and that this regulation should not only concern mobile phones, mobile phone chargers, but also other digital devices for which the same problem exists. in this way europe could also impose, and i have finished, mr president, standards which could eventually also be imposed as world standards. it is a great opportunity on a technical issue, but important for european consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the dogma that banks must be central to the economy and that the process of globalisation must also be a fundamental part of our economic future remains at the heart of the debate. this is a totally wrong dogma. we must take back what is the traditional economic vision of our civilization, namely social justice and real production. since we all eat, go to bed at night and get dressed, we must focus our activity and efforts on the strengthening of agriculture, the strengthening of house building and the strengthening of manufacturing and craftsmanship. without this new vision we will fall back into permanent crises where banking usury will continue to dominate the people and injustice will be central to our lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the irony of fate is that we are having this phase of the debate without the president who should be there, president topolánek, who is not here. yesterday, on the other hand, we had a debate on the strategy and future of europe in the run-up to the g20 with another president, who had to ask to be invited and was invited, it is not clear why, but because of the obvious role he is playing as a nation state. why do i make this introduction so unpleasant? because the economic and financial crisis in europe is also an institutional crisis, well represented by the fact that the president-in-office of the council has to leave in the middle of the debate because of his internal political problems, because when we talk about this we are talking about the same thing, the economic crisis, that is to say, a response that exists only as national states, there is no european response, a european response, not even in budgetary terms. it is too easy to mention 400 billion euros when we know that it is almost exclusively national budget money. i think, mr president barroso, that you have not done enough in recent years to call the attention of governments, of the national states, to the existence of another europe which is not just a coordination of states, but also a purely political subjectivity. i would like to conclude by mentioning the name of yana paliakova, who was killed by the belarusian regime, since we are talking about the eastern partnership, and even president topolánek, about the possibility of extending it to belarus, so as to make it clear that these partnerships should be more about law, democracy and freedom than just about dealing with the worst dictatorships.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president barroso, the question of the mix between support and stimulus measures and regulatory measures is one of the priority issues on the international agenda and the existing tensions reflecting the different strategies adopted by the major economies to deal with the crisis should hopefully find some form of composition at the g20 summit. it is no secret that washington insists on the need for further collective efforts to adopt national measures to stimulate demand and to revive the economy, while the commission in brussels is convinced that all that is useful and necessary has already been done in this respect and that it is now a matter of waiting and being able to record the results of the measures taken by the governments of the member states in the context of the economic downturn. it is no secret that the european side now feels it is necessary to concentrate on the objective of restoring credibility, stability and reliability to the financial markets, including by adopting more demanding regulatory provisions and more effective systems of supervision of the banking and credit sectors, while in washington a line of caution seems to prevail over the hypothesis of a decisive reform of the regulatory framework and of the supervisory mechanisms. i do not think it is useful to oppose these solutions, but rather to combine them, and in this respect it is necessary above all that the european vision prevail, in the sense of the european method of which the commission is the guarantor, and i would say the prophet. i have no doubt, mr president barroso, that you are the man to give substance to our hopes and to lead us out of the quagmire.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to say to mr hannan that the european central bank is also good because we have not had a currency devaluation in the form that the british pound has unfortunately experienced in recent months. this may be a sign that he should reconsider his positions. but as regards the marinescu report, i voted for it consciously. i believe that functional airspace blocks are the right answer to today's challenges. they're late, but they're coming. this is a great advantage in reducing queues, in reducing congestion, in protecting the environment and in reducing the cost of air travel. that is why i believe that the air traffic control services will do a good job here.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity not only to say that i voted in favour of the report, but also to draw attention to a subject which is very close to my heart, namely the problem of taxing aviation fuel. this is still governed by the 1944 chicago convention. it is not clear why we still have to comply with this regulation or why the united states is imposing or not allowing us to change something that should have been changed a long time ago, because it is an inequality of treatment that petrol is taxed for cars, for means of transport, etc., but not aviation petrol. this is a distortion of competition and we could at least in a transitional phase in the union of 27 achieve a taxation of aviation fuel and a better competitive situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, as the budgetary authority, must contribute its own assessments to the revision of the financial framework for 2007-13. i would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur, but also of the presidency, and especially of the presidency, to the fact that, for the purpose of these assessments, a question is emerging, namely the failure, i do not know whether total or partial, of the voluntary supplementary pension fund of the european parliamentarians. is it true or not that funds are missing, that investments have been made in luxembourg funds, god knows what? is it true or not that the competent bodies of the fund, which should be controlled by the european parliament, have invested in funds which have adopted the financial filth we are dealing with? i would not like to, but my concern is not my pension or that of other members, my concern is that the european taxpayer will be forced tomorrow, through the european parliament, to ask for additional funds from the european union to close a hole for which the responsibility must be attributed and paid for by those who did it. we are a control body, we control ourselves first and our activities and the funds paid by the european parliament and the european parliamentarians.
in writing. − having carefully assessed the recommendation for the second reading on biometric data and visa applications for a common consular inquiry, i vote in favour. i believe that the report by mrs ludford has quite similar aims, namely to facilitate the organization, reception and processing of visa applications.
in writing. - i do not feel that i fully agree with mr seppänen's report on the community guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses due to loans and guarantees on loans for projects outside the community, but i do not intend to vote against it entirely either. that is why i am abstaining on this point.
in writing. - i support the marinescu report because the eu's enlargement policy, accompanied by an active neighbourhood policy, has extended the european aviation market to 37 countries. with the extension of the single air transport market, the eu is now a global player. the single european sky (ses) initiative was launched in 2000 and brought atm into the common transport policy. the competitiveness of the european air transport industry requires a comprehensive system approach with a common vision, objectives and technologies, based on a sound regulatory framework. in this respect, the commission has put forward a package of proposals, but some of the elements can be improved, such as ensuring the functional independence of the national supervisory authorities and also greater involvement of all parties. to do this, cooperation at political, social and technical levels is essential if the aim of the ceu is to be achieved. like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission should first of all work towards defining quantifiable and achievable community objectives focused on the need to address all sensitive areas such as safety, the environment, capacity and cost-effectiveness.
in writing. - i support the report by mr marinescu on the performance and sustainability of the european aviation system. i share the views of the honourable member on the need for a revision of the legislative framework for the single european sky (ses) initiative, since since 2000, when it was launched, the expected results do not seem to have been achieved, in particular in terms of increased flight efficiency, cost reduction and the elimination of the fragmentation and general inefficiencies of the air transport system that still persist. these inefficiencies unfortunately translate into high costs in terms of expenses, time and fuel waste for those who benefit from the single european sky. i also believe that it is necessary to push for the revision of the legislation in line with the commission's proposals, in order to ensure, among other things, the independence of the national supervisory authorities, the harmonisation of safety requirements, a single european airborne information region, without neglecting the greater involvement of the social partners in the system approach, because i believe that only with a broad consensus at the grassroots level can the current technical and political obstacles be overcome and the ambitious objectives of the initiative be achieved.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support mr marinescu's report on airports, air traffic management and air navigation services because it is part of the wider framework of the single european sky initiative, on which i have already expressed my favourable opinion. i agree with my colleague that to meet the future challenges in the aviation market, especially in the field of aviation safety, it is necessary to introduce a system of harmonised standards at european level. there are still many differences between the national safety procedures which should be eliminated in the light of the commission's proposals, in particular those concerning the responsibilities of the european aviation safety agency, which is certainly an important instrument for improving the safety of air transport in europe. i think it is necessary, however, to stress, as the honourable member has done, the need to ensure the proportionality of the measures, safeguarding the use of local knowledge and expertise and also ensuring cooperation between aesa and eurocontrol, in order to avoid red tape and inefficient duplication of tasks and responsibilities.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 258/97 on novel foods and novel food ingredients in order to make the necessary simplifications and centralising the authorisation and placing on the market of novel foods. the introduction of the new regulation would protect consumers by introducing a high level of food safety, environmental protection and animal health protection, taking into account at all times the precautionary principle as laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 28 january 2002. that regulation lays down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishes the european food safety authority and lays down procedures in the field of food safety. the commission proposal seeks to make the authorisation procedure more efficient and transparent and to improve its implementation. this will help to improve the application of the regulation and will give consumers greater powers and choice as they will be able to have more information.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the proposal by mrs liotard on novel foods. i agree with your colleague that a high level of food safety, consumer protection, environmental protection and animal health must be achieved, always taking the precautionary principle into account. i also believe that it is essential that new foodstuffs should not endanger the lives of consumers or mislead them, because the health and safety of citizens would be dangerously compromised.
in writing. - if the montreal protocol, which entered into force 20 years ago and has been signed by 193 nations, had not banned products that contribute to the reduction of the ozone hole, a catastrophic scenario would have been foreseen for planet earth. the main culprits for the loss of atmospheric ozone are halogenated hydrocarbons, chemicals invented in 1928 as refrigerants. when the ozone hole was first detected in the 1980's, researchers discovered that these chemicals, which are practically inactive at the earth's surface, are able to interact with ozone molecules in the atmosphere and destroy the protective shield against harmful uv rays. to remedy this situation, the montreal protocol was signed in 1987 and will enter into force two years later. one thing is certain, we have done everything we can to make our air unbreathable. progress has played an important role in this phase, providing us with a range of services and goods that over the past few decades have contributed to a progressive deterioration in the conditions of our climate system. the greenhouse effect, the ozone hole and climate change are just some of the phenomena which must be the focus of our attention as representatives of our fellow citizens and future children in europe. that's why i'm in favor.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr blokland on substances that deplete the ozone layer. i share the aims of the project, which are to protect the stratospheric ozone layer and prevent climate change, as banned substances have not only a significant ozone depleting potential (odp), but also a global warming potential (gwp). i also agree with the amendments tabled, which seek to improve the regulation further in the light of the problems, so that the eu can set itself more ambitious objectives and take a leading role in the world.
in writing. - i shall abstain on the report by mr virrankoski on the abb-abm method as a management tool for the allocation of budgetary resources. i fully agree with the honourable member that there is an absolute need for clarity on the results achieved and the resources needed to achieve them and that citizens should be fully informed about the cost of european union policies. i am not sure, however, that the system in question can solve the problem, and i shall therefore abstain from voting for or against it.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the institutional future of the european union was given a new impetus by the european council of june 2007. the 27 member states have decided to convene an intergovernmental conference to prepare the new treaty on the basis of the draft constitution. if the ratification procedures proceed as expected, the new treaty could enter into force in mid-2009, roughly coinciding with the european elections. if the ratification process were to be held up, it would have unforeseeable consequences for the european project. the revision process must therefore take account of this new context. if the timetable set out in the european council conclusions is respected, the entry into force of the new treaty, the election of the new parliament (june 2009) and the appointment of the new commission should take place in the second half of 2009. in such a situation, the interinstitutional debate on the revision could be postponed to avoid any risk of confusion. i think that this parliament has made a considerable investment with the work of its temporary committee on political challenges and budgetary resources as well as with the annual budgets and the legislative work that has followed. the ini report, therefore, as a legacy of the outgoing parliament, should reflect the successes achieved so far, but also highlight the shortcomings that still exist.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr böge on the mid-term review of the eu's financial framework for 2007-13. i am not satisfied that not all the next generation programmes linked to the 2007-2013 mff have been adopted, in particular the important galileo programme, which was not allocated sufficient funds, and the framework programme on fundamental rights and justice. it would have required a greater effort to get them approved in time. i also believe that parliament must exercise stricter control over the budget of the european union through more rigorous and thorough checks to ensure that public money is being managed properly.
in writing. - i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the economic partnership agreement between the cariforum countries and the ec. i believe that the epas should support the sustainable development of the african, caribbean and pacific countries, promote their participation in international trade and their economic diversification. i believe, however, that the agreement in question is not going in the desired direction, because it does not help to create a self-sufficient economy in the countries concerned which is able to sustain itself without being dependent on external aid. i also believe that the instruments provided for in the agreement do not facilitate the participation of either the local authorities or the private sector, which would therefore not be adequately involved in the development process of their regions.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the interim economic partnership agreement between the ec and côte d'ivoire. i agree that a customs union between the west african countries could be a great benefit to the ivory coast, which is the trade and economic leader of that area: in addition, in view of the fact that intra-regional trade represents only a small part of the total trade of côte d'ivoire, it is appropriate to increase regional trade links in order to develop sustained and sustainable growth in the long term. it is also desirable that the european union should provide greater and better technical and administrative assistance to côte d'ivoire to ensure that its economy is able to fully absorb the benefits of the interim economic partnership agreement.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr fjellner on the interim economic partnership agreement between the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and ghana, on the other. i believe that such an agreement with ghana could jeopardise the cohesion and weaken the regional integration of ecowas, which should be supported, since it is more likely to produce positive effects for the local economy in the medium to long term, through greater potential for participation by local actors.
in writing. - i shall vote against the motion for a resolution on the interim economic partnership agreement between the ec and the sadc countries which are members of the epa. i do not think that the economic partnership agreement has brought any major benefits to acp exporters to the european union, after the cotonou trade agreements expired at the beginning of 2008, even though acp products can enter the european union market without being subject to customs duties or quotas. in particular, the agreement does not help to promote the autonomous development of the states, to create those capacities which in the future will enable the countries concerned to continue their development even in the absence of external intervention. i also think that the conditions for good governance, transparency of political positions and respect for human rights are often not met, without which the risk of harm to the people of those states is greater than the aid that comes.
in writing. - i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community. i am convinced that this economic partnership agreement is not suited to the objective of promoting the development of the countries concerned: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the economic partnership agreement between the european community and the east african states. i believe it would be important to develop a genuine regional and intraregional market in these countries to ensure that the conditions are created for sustainable growth which is not dependent on external aid alone: however, this agreement does not create the necessary conditions for this to happen, as in many cases the planned interventions involve little involvement of local authorities and the private sector. moreover, despite the existence of monitoring mechanisms, i do not think that the conditions for good governance, transparency of political positions and respect for human rights are often met, without which there is more risk of harming the majority of the population of those states than of providing real help.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the economic partnership agreement between the european community and the central african states. i am convinced that the interim economic partnership agreement has given exporters in the central african countries great advantages, especially after the expiry of the cotonou agreements in january 2008, by increasing their export possibilities to the european union. in any event, the global epas should be seen as complementary and not alternative to the agreements based on the doha development agenda, which calls for the negotiations to be re-launched as soon as possible. i also agree with the introduction of transitional periods for small and mediumsized enterprises, to give them time to adapt to the changes resulting from the agreement, and more generally with the support that the states concerned must give to smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation by mr martin on the ec/cariforum economic partnership agreement. the european parliament must conclude such an agreement if the commission and the council agree to review these agreements every five years, if the most-favoured-nation treatment for the european union is abolished and, above all, if different shares of trade-aid resources are defined and allocated in a timely manner.
in writing. - i shall abstain on the recommendation tabled by mrs mann on the ec-ivory coast interim economic partnership agreement. in fact, there are several points in the proposal with which i do not agree. on the other hand, the aims and objectives are laudable, so i do not feel i can vote against this recommendation.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. this is the first time that parliament has drawn up a single report on the activities of the eib and the ebrd. the two banks are increasing their lending activities in the same geographical regions outside the eu, such as eastern europe, the south caucasus, russia, the western balkans and turkey. cooperation between the two banks has developed on a regional basis and therefore the modalities of such cooperation differ according to the territory. in the countries concerned by the joint operation, there are three different methods of cooperation between the eib and the ebrd: the european council also welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the european union's external relations policy. this development is not convincing at the moment. instead, it would be more useful to organise a general review, which would consider ways to improve cooperation between the two banks and other stakeholders, taking into account the interests of the eu and the beneficiary countries. moreover, the division of activities and cooperation between the two institutions cannot be managed simply on a regional basis or by drawing a line of demarcation between lending to the public and lending to the private sector.
in writing. - i vote against the report by mr mitchell on the annual reports of the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development for the year 2007. i believe that rather than talk about cooperation between banks and other stakeholders, it is better to first check the ex-ante, in-routing and ex-post quality of the loans granted, which reached very high figures in 2007 for both banks. financial support without the involvement of civil society in the countries concerned can only make the situation in those countries worse rather than better. i think that in this respect the proposal made by the honourable member for the commission to submit an annual report to parliament and the council on the impact assessment of financing operations is to be welcomed. however, this is not enough to make me vote in favour of the report.
the next item is the report by mr francisco josé millán mon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of transatlantic relations in the wake of the us elections [2008/2199(ini] (a6-0114/2009).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that this debate on the interim agreement will be an opportunity to begin a comprehensive reflection on the situation in turkmenistan and to call for more concrete commitments to improve a situation which is currently very bad. the government in ashkhabad has also recently rejected a number of recommendations including the release of political prisoners, review of past cases of political imprisonment and lifting arbitrary travel bans on human rights activists. today, without hypocrisy, it is a state closed to the monitoring of international organizations that have not been able to enter the country for ten years, journalists and activists do not have the opportunity to work freely and all opponents are threatened daily. it is time for the european union and the international community to demand a breakthrough in the field of respect for human rights, otherwise it will be very difficult to digest agreements of a purely economic nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, (...) we welcome the new willingness of belarus to cooperate with the european union and the international community. we are very cautious with lukashenko, but welcome a new course in this area. we will not tire of stressing the need for a comprehensive and substantial change of course in the context of respect for human rights. on one point i think the commission could expect clearer and more linear action from minsk, and i am referring to the situation of children, tens of thousands of whom are staying for a few months in european families. for several years the belarusian government has been acting in an absurd and sometimes incomprehensible way, often cancelling the stays of minors at the last minute, mortifying the host families and giving a new blow to the children who, often orphans from very complicated family situations, have been completely affected. we are trying to change course as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today we can actually see who is exercising totalitarianism. well, the first country that comes to mind is china, china right now is a country where forced abortions are carried out, where there is laogai, which is a real concentration camp and then you work for big corporations or for the chinese state and where priests and political opponents are imprisoned. so that's the first one that comes to mind. the second, i would say, is islamic totalitarianism, especially related to sharia. where islam actually becomes totalitarian law, then the rights of other religions or women or everyone are actually suppressed. then there is a return of a certain kind of totalitarianism in europe as well and i want to devote a few seconds to that. i have personally been present in hungary at demonstrations to commemorate the 1956 national uprising and i have seen the police act with repressive measures against demonstrators and the undersigned has been searched and asked for his documents when they knew very well who i was. so a kind of totalitarianism emerging there, but also another totalitarianism emerging, and this from the statements of the various zapateros, but also merkel and sarkozy, about the statements of the holy father in africa or other events related to the catholic church. well, these heads of state have never intervened against other religions, but they are absolutely, let us say, radical when they have to intervene and attack the catholic church and this causes a feeling of intolerance in certain countries, as we saw the other day for example in notre dame, when some of the faithful were attacked by anti-catholic activists.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as others have said before me, i want to reiterate that the internet should not be criminalised or censored because it is a source of communication, socialising, information and knowledge, but that a comprehensive strategy to combat cybercrime must be developed. in particular, children need to be protected and parents and teachers need to be educated and informed about the new dangers that can develop on the internet. these are objectives on which europe must be able to act effectively and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done. however, although the laws of the member states ensure sanctions and a fairly high level of protection against the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and online child pornography, the threshold for the protection of children needs to be increased, also in view of the continuing development of new technologies and in particular the internet and the use of new forms of online solicitation of children for sexual purposes by paedophiles. that is why i thought it appropriate to table an amendment to the report, which explicitly calls on the member states to update legislation to protect minors using the internet, in particular by introducing the offence of grooming, as defined in the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of october 2007.
the agenda includes the report by mr czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the distribution of food to the most deprived in the community (com (2008) 0563 - c6-0353/2008 - 2008/0183 (cns)) (a6-0091/2009).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally realizing that the new agricultural policy has left the stocks empty, and that all the money has been transferred to direct aids and that the budget is now being used to feed the poor. perhaps if the modulation had been applied to those who receive more than eur 300 000 in direct aid each year, we would have more resources for the poor today. perhaps if we decided before we produce what we should set aside for the poor, we would spend much less than buying from the market and we could implement a policy to support some markets in crisis such as the milk market. perhaps if we could use products that are thrown out because they are close to expiry or not sold on the general markets, we could achieve two results together. i would not even imagine that behind a noble cause the fat aid market is being built, putting its hands in the pockets of european taxpayers and giving a beard to those poor devils who are starving to death.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the siekierski report on the common organization of agricultural markets and the specific provisions concerning the distribution of foodstuffs to the poor. this is all the more important in view of the financial crisis, the effects of which are also felt in the european economy. the european parliament, recognizing the urgent need to meet the food needs of the poor, urged the commission and the council to make the european food aid programme permanent. in addition, ladies and gentlemen, we reaffirmed here, just last may, when we adopted a resolution on price increases in the eu and in developing countries, that the right to adequate, varied and adequate food for a healthy and active life is a fundamental right that must be guaranteed to everyone at all times. i believe that the programme of food distribution to the poor must continue to be a defining element of the common agricultural policy, precisely because the cap works by calming down prices and thus protecting the lowest income groups from price fluctuations. i do not agree with the cofinancing rates proposed in some of the amendments, because they could lead some member states to limit their participation in the programme. i therefore reject the amendments seeking to change the legal basis. i would stress that there must be full european union funding for food aid programmes. i therefore support the adoption of the draft legislative resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the proposal - both by the rapporteur and the commission - is important, it is important that this pact be financed in order to mitigate the impact of the vertiginous rise in the price of foodstuffs in the community, which is putting increasing numbers of people in difficulty and making the provision of food aid much more onerous. this new approach, which i share, increases the effectiveness of the programme by making the system up-to-date both from the point of view of agricultural policy and from the social point of view. it is also considered that the initiative should be maintained within the framework of the cap as envisaged by the commission. as you know, the common agricultural policy currently provides for food aid for those sections of the population who are living in desperate conditions. in fact, the measure we are about to implement has always been widely accepted, so that in 2006 13 million people and 15 countries in 2008, even 19 countries, i think that in this respect ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr siekierski for his report on the community programme for the distribution of food aid to the poor, which is a useful instrument for regulating the market and which must therefore be kept within the framework of the cap. although living standards in the european union are on average among the highest in the world, some citizens are unable to eat properly. an estimated 43 million people in the eu are at risk of food poverty, a number that has been steadily increasing in recent years. the price increases which have been taking place for some time on widely available products make the provision of food aid more costly, making the support provided by the european programme even more urgent.
mr president, just a little note, since the members are still sitting. we changed the rules of procedure because too much time was being spent on useless debates and we decided that there should not have been a debate on the auken report and we lost a good half hour of 'nothingness' which we could have used much better by discussing a text which is particularly important to the citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, effective access to justice for victims of competition infringements requires joint efforts by the eu and the member states. the white paper makes a number of recommendations to ensure that those harmed by such breaches have access to truly effective mechanisms to seek full compensation for the damage suffered. in most eu member states there are currently serious obstacles to consumers and businesses taking private action to seek damages for breaches of antitrust rules. although there have been signs of improvement in some member states recently, very few applications have been made in europe in recent decades. the traditional rules and procedures on civil liability in most member states appeared to be inadequate. i am in favour of and appreciate the preparation of a white paper which offers a solution at community level to the problem of ensuring access to justice for the parties, thus pursuing general policy objectives (in this case, ensuring wider access to justice by implementing competition policy and discouraging abusive practices by undertakings), but at the same time preventing frivolous and reckless litigation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to abstain on the report by mr lehne on the white paper on actions for damages for infringement of community antitrust rules. i agree with some of the points made in the report, but i am not in favour of others: i therefore decide not to vote for the report as it stands.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mr siekierski's report on the distribution of food to the poor in the community. i believe that the problem of poverty is a very relevant issue even in wealthy europe, where more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty and a large proportion of these live in the countries that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the range of products supplied under this food aid programme should be extended and that the primary source of supply should be intervention stocks on the agricultural market, which is an important point in the common agricultural policy. i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal for full eu funding of the food aid programme, as the commission's proposal for co-financing could lead to member states participating less in the programme, especially at a time of economic difficulties such as those many states are experiencing.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against mr karim's report on the free trade agreement between the european union and india. i believe that the conclusion of such agreements must be absolutely conditional on respect for fundamental human rights and democracy, which is far from the case in the country in question. the inclusion of human rights and democracy clauses in the agreement is clearly insufficient to ensure that these basic conditions are met, as is the promise of enhanced consultations within the un human rights council: the persecution of religious minorities and human rights defenders in india continues to be sadly witnessed by the international press. i therefore find it quite unacceptable that such economic agreements should be concluded.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr lehtinen on the social responsibility of subcontracting firms in the production chain. i agree with the rapporteur that the spread of subcontracting in the european union has reached very advanced levels: this has brought to light a number of issues, such as the legal implications for employers and workers and the difficulty of ensuring compliance with tax and social security obligations. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to adopt a system of joint and several liability at european level, which would encourage the main contractor to check that the subcontractor's work is carried out in compliance with the legislation in force. this would also help to combat the underground economy by preventing unfair competition from firms offering wages below the minimum wage.
in writing. − in january 2009, food price growth in italy was 40% higher than the average for the top 15 countries in the european union, demonstrating the existence of severe distortions in the movement of food from the field to the table. according to istat data, in january 2009 the trend rate of food price growth was 3.7% in italy, compared with 2.3% in france, 1.9% in spain, 1% in germany and 2.6% in the european union. the istat analysis also shows that the largest differences with community partners were in the bread, pasta and cereals chapter, which uses raw materials such as wheat, whose price is fixed at international level and does not differ between the different countries. the increase in the price gap between production and consumption confirms the existence of strong distortions in the passage of food from the field to the table in italy. the effects were most pronounced in low-income households, where food is the main item of expenditure. small and medium-sized food processing enterprises have also been severely affected. the problem of the gap between the producer and consumer prices has reached a point where immediate action by the european institutions is required.
in writing. − the rise in food prices in europe is a matter of public concern and a very serious problem which requires immediate action by the european union. i therefore vote in favour of mrs batzeli's report, which deals with the matter in a way that i consider to be complete and proposes measures that are very useful in resolving the matter. it is imperative that measures are taken to reduce the current gap between producer and consumer prices, caused by the unhealthy price transmission mechanism which includes food speculation and increased involvement of intermediaries. i agree with the honourable member that the increasing degree of concentration in the marketing and distribution of foodstuffs has contributed significantly to the increase in the consumer price compared with the production price. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' and to extend the scope of the term 'competition' to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the honourable member on his work and support his report on the impact of intensive urbanisation in spain on the individual rights of european citizens, on the environment and on the application of community law, a very negative impact, as evidenced by the numerous petitions received from citizens living in the country. i believe that the committee on petitions has taken due account of the requests from citizens concerned about the destruction of the natural landscape, the non-compliance with the rules on procurement and the protection of the land and the massive building activity. the testimony given by the same committee following the fact-finding missions carried out in the area clearly showed the usurpations caused by the building sector and the need to defend the rights of spanish citizens, as enshrined in the treaties. i therefore support the report, which fully respects the principle of subsidiarity, and i hope that the spanish local authorities will take appropriate action without the need for an infringement procedure by the european commission.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i see in the election of obama an important opportunity for a new policy of global engagement, a turning point in the history of the united states and indeed the world. the way forward must be a new policy of global engagement, in which the eu will play its important role. we now have the opportunity to renew our global commitment, including through renewed institutions in view of the forthcoming european elections. the victory of the democratic candidate demonstrates once again the extraordinary capacity for renewal that has been so often evident in difficult moments of american history. new us leadership could lead to a better eu/us common policy, to work together in an effective partnership on many global issues facing leaders from both continents, such as climate change, global challenges, regional issues, defence, economic and trade issues. we must tackle these problems together with determination and creativity. obama epitomizes what's good and awesome about america and today's complex and globalized world, where change is constant. the transatlantic link remains essential. i am confident that the united states will continue to play a role in this regard under the leadership of president-elect obama.
in writing. - i shall vote against the report by mr millán mon on the state of transatlantic relations in the wake of the us elections. i do not think it is right to expect that the european union will gain greater weight and coherence on the international geopolitical scene with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the instruments of foreign policy that it contains. i also strongly disagree with the role of the transatlantic partnership and nato in the area of collective security.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on a trade agreement between the european communities and turkmenistan, i shall abstain. in fact, while recognizing the importance of economic and trade relations for the opening up of turkmen society, i doubt that an interim agreement is the best solution for both sides.
in writing. - i shall abstain on the report by mr caspary on the interim trade agreement with turkmenistan. i do not agree with the whole of the proposal, but only with some of the points. that is why i did not vote against, but abstained.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the internet is now the basis of all our personal and institutional relationships. our personal data is now the property of many companies that often use our privacy without proper authorization. for all these reasons, it is necessary to protect the fundamental right to privacy on the internet. the internet can also significantly strengthen other fundamental rights, such as freedom of speech, political action and association, but it also opens up a wide scope for crime. an example of this distorted use of the internet is the rampant plague of child pornography that is now spreading on the internet and that it is our responsibility to curb. concrete action is therefore needed to protect and promote the fundamental freedoms of individuals when browsing the internet. confidentiality and security must be at the heart of our action, always bearing in mind the fundamental right to education and access to information systems.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr lambrinidis on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the internet. i fully share the aims of the project presented, which is to involve all stakeholders, to act at various levels using existing national, regional and international tools and, finally, to exchange best practice so that the needs and problems of different types of internet users and the many forms of online activity can be adequately addressed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for your availability. i'd like to broaden my horizons a bit and look to the future and not just the past. we are in a situation where we are seeing that growth cannot be continuous but has limits in the limited natural resources and in the limited, also, of the land to absorb and metabolize our waste. we must no longer rely on material growth alone - our idea of development - but have a development that also has a stronger reference to the quality of life: we have to, in essence, dematerialize our society. so it is in this sense that regions are so important for the enormous amount of cultural deposits that they have - i would say quality of life deposits - that is extremely important at a time like this that we have to completely change our civilization. it is therefore in this dematerialization that the quality of life of the regions is extremely important, i would say absolutely indispensable. it is in this sense that i would like to address both the commission and parliament, in the awareness of the change of civilisation which we must bring about, of a dematerialization of our society and therefore of a task of culture, which becomes irreplaceable because we must replace material goods with immaterial goods. so this experience of the regions is something we must try to understand and preserve before it is swept away by a whole series of inattentions. in this sense, i ask that we continue this debate, because it is so essential and because we simply have to change our civilization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reading the text of this document, one gets the impression that the authors do not want to see an improvement in relations between the european union and russia, but rather a deterioration. if that is the aim of europe, then this document is excellent; if it's not, then it sucks. and i think it is a terrible document. how can we envisage a future of renewed tension with a country whose indispensable role we recognise as being in our own interests? in the next 40 years we will have to rely on the traditional energy resources that russia is rich in: what else can we do? we won't. secondly, the manner and tone: in these pages europe speaks an imperial language, not the language of those who respect their interlocutor. this contradicts our own good neighbour policy and it would not be fair to use it even against a small country: the european parliament has always been a great country, and it has always been a great country. it's a matter of realism first of all! the european parliament is preparing to approve, i fear, a document written in the spirit of the cold war, old, useless, harmful, counterproductive, just as the new american president is coming to establish a new dialogue with moscow. with this approach europe can expect no leadership and i hope the commission will not accept these recommendations.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i welcome this timely debate. as a result of the quest for resources and climate change, the arctic region is on the brink of a profound change. it is not only the region itself which is likely to be affected but, as many here today have recognised, also the eu as a whole. against the background of these developments it is important that the eu approaches the arctic in a comprehensive and strategic manner covering a whole range of issues, such as environment, transport, biodiversity, climate change, maritime affairs, energy and research, as well as protection of the livelihood of the indigenous peoples. i consider that the council is now taking this issue very seriously. it broadly supports the suggestions set out in the commission’s communication. this should constitute the basis for an arctic policy, which needs to be developed in a comprehensive manner. to those who are talking about the new treaty, there is no council position at the moment because the council is only now in the process of examining the commission proposals. i would like just to recall the council’s conclusions from december. in the conclusion we say that the objectives of the eu could only be achieved in close cooperation with the arctic countries, and the eu should enforce its participation in conformity with the current international conventions. as i mentioned earlier, the commission proposals are now being studied in much more detail. they will, i believe, facilitate agreement on an overarching response to the many varied challenges which we face in the arctic region. i welcome the interest of this parliament and i am ready to come back to you to report once the council has reached a position.
member of the commission. − mr president, as i underlined at the beginning of this important debate, the european union has to play a growing role in protecting the arctic environment, in promoting sustainable exploitation of natural resources and in enhancing arctic multilateral governance. we are committed to the preservation of the arctic and, at the same time, our aim is to contribute to a cooperative system that will guarantee sustainability, as well as free and equitable access. in order to succeed in these important endeavours, we have to cooperate closely with all the arctic states and arctic stakeholders, as i have said. in this regard, the commission proposes to promote the full implementation and elaboration of existing obligations, rather than proposing new legal instruments in order to enhance security and stability. strict environmental management and sustainable use of resources, as well as open and equitable access. at the same time, the eu has already highlighted that, for areas beyond national jurisdiction, the provisions on environmental protection under this convention remain rather general, and we will continue to work within the united nations towards the further development of some of the frameworks, adapting them to new conditions or arctic specificities. for example, a new unclos implementation agreement on marine biodiversity beyond the areas of national jurisdiction could take the arctic into account, and we have also submitted our application to the norwegian chair of the arctic council. the acceptance of the commission’s application requires the unanimous decision of all the members of the arctic council. this decision, which is due on 29 april – i.e. very soon – might be negatively affected by an initiative that perhaps proposes an arctic treaty, so we should be careful about that. finally, let me say that the arctic coastal states have a clear preference for the unclos as a basis. the european union has to take this into account when we want to develop even stronger cooperation for the benefit of the arctic, its inhabitants and its wildlife. in this context, we should not weaken the existing frameworks for cooperation as this would not really serve our objectives and interests. nor would it correspond to the spirit of your own draft resolution. in conclusion, i consider that the conditions are not yet right for an international treaty on the arctic, and that we should rather focus our efforts on ensuring the effective application of the existing legal frameworks, thus filling the gaps that might exist, and adapting the rules to the specificities of the arctic. this seems much more feasible.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 2 april 2009.
the agenda calls for the report by kathalijne maria buitenweg, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation (com (2008) 0426 - c6-0291/2008 - 2008/0140 (cns)) (a6-0149/2009).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the great interest shown in this motion, as evidenced by the large number of amendments it has generated. this shows that combating discrimination in everyday life is still a priority for most of us, even during a severe economic crisis. i also welcome the excellent report presented by mrs buitenweg and approved by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the remarkable contribution made by mrs lynne and the committee on employment and social affairs. the draft report supports the ambition and efforts of the commission's proposal for a directive. i think the rapporteur has succeeded in reconciling the different views and in reaching a broad consensus among the various political groups. i would like to acknowledge the supporting role played by parliament in the presentation of the proposal for a directive. as regards the proposed amendments, i agree with many of the suggestions for improvement contained in the draft report. however, i would like to remind you that this proposal needs unanimous approval in the council and that we must therefore be realistic. i know that the issue of discrimination based on more than one cause is crucial to you. i am fully aware of the fact that people who are discriminated against for multiple reasons are very badly affected. however, i also believe that this directive, which deals with only four possible grounds for discrimination, cannot definitively resolve this problem at legal level. in the commission's july 2008 communication on non-discrimination, we committed ourselves to launching a discussion on this issue in the newly established group of governmental experts. this discussion has been initiated. so the issue of multiple discrimination is not an issue. i could agree with the reference to discrimination on more than one ground in the areas covered by this proposal for a directive. i agree that we need to define more clearly the division of competences between the european union and the member states. this directive will not change this definition in any way, but our aim is to achieve the highest possible degree of legal certainty. i also recognize that when considering a case of alleged harassment, freedom of speech must be taken into account. but we should be aware that the concept of harassment requires hard evidence. human dignity must be at stake, and it must be a hostile or humiliating environment. i can agree with the introduction of the concept of 'discrimination on grounds of relationship to another person' within the meaning of the recent coleman judgment, but that concept should only be applied to direct discrimination and harassment. as regards financial services, i can agree that there is a need for a service provider to apply a certain level of transparency, but i have some doubts about the wording used in your proposal. i fully agree that the directive should not apply to purely private transactions. the commission and parliament are very close on this point. as regards disabled people, i can support the reference to the open definition of disability in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i can also agree with the substance of some of the interpretations of the concept of disability which are contained in your amendments. however, i think it is necessary to point out that the wording of the legislation must be very precise. i can agree with some of the other ideas expressed, but i think that article 4 needs to be kept concise and clear. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to hearing your views, which i will answer in the debate.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, we have dealt with and taken into account, above all, the need to ensure equal treatment in the area of health. other subjects have been dealt with very well in the other committees, and especially by the rapporteur and the commissioner, and so we have decided to focus on the health issue. the first consideration is that we have done so in view of the great disparity which still exists between member states as regards access to health care. access to healthcare is a fundamental right, enshrined in article 35 of the charter of rights and is a primary responsibility of public authorities, member states to provide access for all, equal access, to a quality healthcare system. it is therefore important, while being aware of the different competences between the european union and the member states, that the european union does everything it can in terms of guidelines, but also in terms of directives, which we are gradually addressing and preparing, together with resolutions and regulations, and giving them to the member states, wherever possible, with this fundamental objective. in particular, the amendments which we, as the committee on public health, have emphasized are to promote health literacy programmes, to continue to promote the fight against violence against women, to combat the refusal of certain medical care because of old age, but above all - i will return to this subject - to promote equal access to quality services in all member states.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to mention the good result achieved by the committee on women, and this is no accident, because the committee on women is the one that knows and deals in depth with the issues of equal treatment, equal opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination. we have sent a number of strong messages in the opinion we have voted on, which i hope will be taken into account when the text is adopted. this directive does not close or complete a cycle. if this were the case, the very area of gender discrimination would risk emerging weaker. this directive should be the opportunity to relaunch the work on anti-discrimination directives, starting with the addition of the two new concepts we all share: multiple discrimination, which is the coexistence of multiple risk factors, and association discrimination, which affects the person next to, linked to, the directly exposed person. both are of utmost importance to women, but not only. this directive must be an impetus to improve national legislation, especially in countries like mine where drift must be curbed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, any initiative aimed at combating any form of discrimination must be supported. the fact that in the most civilized of europe, according to recent statistics, a minority of citizens admit that they have suffered discrimination cannot leave us indifferent. however, the concept itself remains so broad and abstract that it suggests some clarifications. without prejudice to the fundamental rights of man, which remain indisputable everywhere, we cannot but recognize the sovereignty of each member state to legislate, also on the basis of its millenary traditions, civilisations and cultures, which almost always constitute the protection of the identity of a people. an example of sexual orientation: it's my personal opinion, but i believe that the dignity of the person must be guaranteed regardless of sexual orientation. homosexuality is a choice that belongs to the private sphere and should not be pursued at all, but it should not be protected either. freedom of opinion: where does the protection against direct and indirect discrimination begin and end? freedom of religion: my granddaughter, who is in school for the first time this year, did not see the nativity scene. the headmistress prevented him from having other children of other faiths in the classroom. well, i believe that since the nativity scene is a testimony of civilization even before faith, to prevent discrimination if another one is committed. respect for the religion of others does not mean, mr president, that one should be ashamed of one's own religion! that is why - and i conclude - we fear that this proposal for a directive is marked by an excessive degree of fundamentalism, and that the remedy may prove to be worse than the harm.
member of the commission. - in a few minutes i shall be taking part in the negotiations on the working time directive, and you will agree that this is one of the topics that cannot be avoided. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to the debate which has been taking place around the report which has been tabled, and i must say that i have listened to it with emotion, because it expresses the essential elements and the enormous depth of this problem. the fundamental question is indeed: what does this directive protect? this directive protects human dignity. and it's not possible to think that human dignity, which is affected by that discriminatory reason, for example, that i'm a person with a disability, or by another reason, because at a given moment i'm older than someone thinks is advantageous, is affected less. we're talking about human dignity, which is equal for every single human being. i must say that this directive, as proposed by the commission, is a directive which has been drawn up organically, in a profound debate with parliament, in countless debates at commission level, and it is therefore a directive which is thought out and which expresses a firm and clear approach to values. it was also argued that this non-discrimination is based on values that we have applied to ourselves, that we have realized after the second world war. while it is true that after the second world war we have become more aware of the importance and constitutive weight of certain values, these values are more deeply and historically rooted. after all, in ancient times, the concept of human equality was not fundamental, and that concept of human equality was first formulated in the christian religion. i remember very well an encyclical or a papal bull from the 9th century called oriente ian sole, which clearly said: is it not true that the sun shines on all? and this formulation has been passed down through history from that moment on. of course, there were a number of issues raised in the debate which are technical or seemingly of a lesser order than the issues we have just mentioned. let me touch them. the first question was that it creates a senseless, extra bureaucracy. i think it's unacceptable for one simple reason. this directive does not require new structures, new bureaucratic bodies. this directive merely extends the application of what already exists, and is by no means a further step towards bureaucracy. the question of subsidiarity was also open. this question has been, because it is a fundamental question, examined with extraordinary care. article 13 of the treaty is clear. it is a solid legal basis and a directive based on that legal basis is not in conflict with the principle of subsidiarity. another essential principle of this directive is the question of, for example, the transfer of the burden of proof. this issue has already been addressed in previous directives, so that this is not a breakthrough either. but still, allow me to add my own statement to the burden of proof. the aim of this directive is to strengthen the individual's capacity to defend himself, that is the fundamental objective. without shifting the burden of proof, it's not possible. notwithstanding the fact that in many legal systems the burden of proof is already shifted for reasons of much less importance or for reasons of comparable importance. the classic example of shifting the burden of proof is the so-called presumption of paternity, and i could go on. it was also mentioned in the debate that some concepts are too open. ladies and gentlemen, most of the constitutional terms are open and require interpretation in their context. i recall, for example, the constitution of the federal republic of germany, which uses the phrase 'assets bind'. a typical open formulation, which is of course redefined on a case-by-case basis. ladies and gentlemen, there has been some talk of the potential exaggeration of the cost, particularly in relation to the disabled. i can state that the directive does not propose any fixed and concrete things, it speaks of reasonable accommodation and i can state again that, if this reasonable accommodation is taken from the outset, it usually does not involve excessively high costs. and i have to say that while, for example, in the field of occupational safety and health, where we are protecting human life, we understand that any increased bases are acceptable and proportionate, i think that in the protection of human dignity, any increased costs - although i do not believe they will be substantially different - are also in relation to proportion, to the interests protected, because, ladies and gentlemen, equality, human dignity are the interests that we have included in the treaty, and these are the interests that we must defend with full effort. in my view, when thinking about the european union, there is nothing more important than the concept of non-discrimination. as much as i am a supporter of the internal market, as much as i am a supporter of a number of other areas of european policy, i think that the concept of equal opportunities and non-discrimination is the foundation of the foundation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the heart of a strategy of non-discrimination is this statement: the person comes first. the person, to consider that one is a person even before considering the fact that one is disabled, that one is homosexual, that one is somehow different and therefore to love the person, to protect the person, to defend the person, this is the heart of the strategy of non-discrimination. if this is true, then it is true that even a person with religious beliefs is a person, because the fact that he is a person comes before the fact that he has religious beliefs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this amendment 52 empties the very concept of preserving the status provided for in national legislation for churches and organisations based on religion or personal belief, and at the same time article 3 and the corresponding recital 18 in the wording proposed by amendments 51 and 29 to the libe report, in my view, limit the scope of the member states' competence in terms of access to educational establishments based on religion and personal belief. i believe that if we want to defend the person from the beginning and as a whole, we must also defend those dimensions which characterize the person, including the religious dimension. i also believe that amendments nos 92, 89 and 95 can be a reasonable meeting point for those who want the directive to be adopted and i therefore believe that it is a real point of dialogue to be able to meet at this level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to express our support for the work of the rapporteur, mrs buitenweg. he seems to understand that what was supposed to be a compromise may not be quite so but it's not important: the important thing is that we can speak out. i would, however, have concerns on some points opposite to those of my colleague mauro. religious freedom? i'm sure you are. freedom of religious education institutions too? i'm sure you are. religion can never, ever, any religion, be an occasion, a pretext, a protection for the realization of any kind of discrimination. there is no prospect of tolerating the exception whereby as a church, or as a religious institution we can discriminate against the teacher or the pupil who has behaviour that does not conform to this or that belief, because that risks being the invasion of the ethical state and of the many religions that can claim that legitimacy for themselves. this is not the direction: the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. we are not adding any more exceptions to the ones that already exist.
in writing. human dignity and equality are the two great values that underpin the modern culture of human rights. however, it often happens that beautiful words are used to mask their opposite. equality, for example, means treating identical situations in the same way but also means treating different situations differently. my reservations about the report in question stem from this preliminary consideration. no one can doubt that the people's party does not recognize the full dignity and equality of the disabled, the old, the sick, the poor, the refugees and immigrants. however, it seems to me that this train, which is already running, is being attacked by wagons, to impose certain discriminations with regard to the family based on the marriage of a man and a woman and religious freedom, particularly with regard to schools with a religious stamp. i will never tire of fighting for the equality of the least, the poorest, the defenseless. i am sorry that the european union of human rights, in its laws and in its practical behaviour, discriminates most harshly between born and unborn children. that is not the point, but it would be good if the european conscience would remember this when it reflects on equality and dignity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these commission measures are full of twists and turns. the award of contracts directly to the european investment bank and the european investment fund is a positive development, as is the simplification of procedures and the acceleration of payments. but, one recommendation is crucial to all of this: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the funds. the checks must be punctual, as must the disbursements. in italy, in some regions, for example in lazio, farmers are given funds months, in some cases years, after they have moved from the union and i have no time here for more examples. we are therefore helping the crisis not only by thinking about disparities in intervention, but also by thinking about the effective, timely and efficient use of funds.
madam president, today we have taken a minute at the beginning of our proceedings - and we thank the president for allowing us to do so - to pay tribute to the memory of the daily victims of a system which is now creating a tragedy on a scale never seen before, a continuing tragedy of the poor against the poor, who are looking for work and food. we also learned a moment ago that 94 women and 7 children were still missing. the problem, madam president - and we have been saying this for eight years - is this: is it possible that there is no follow-up, that it is impossible to know the reasons, when we can see the flowers on our balconies from space? the reasons are not known, the consequences are criminal... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, libyan dictator gaddafi has called the international criminal court 'a new form of world terrorism'. i say this to the president of this parliament: this parliament has been instrumental in carrying forward the struggle - we did it as a non-violent radical party - for the establishment of the international criminal court. i believe that we cannot leave the libyan dictator's words without a strong condemnation as a parliament and as european institutions. our fight must be to subject national sovereignty, the sovereignty of states, to the force of international law against genocide, against war crimes, against crimes against humanity; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. it's the same thing that our friends in the tibetan government in exile asked us yesterday in the hearing of the foreign affairs committee and it's the same thing that the national council of iranian nationalities asked us today in the hearing of today: the absolute sovereignty as an enemy to freedom and justice.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about more than 500 missing persons: the greatest tragedy of the sea since the war. these are impressive numbers. yet europe and its governments seem distracted. some countries, including italy, thought they had gotten away with it, having signed bilateral agreements such as the recent treaty with libya: it's not like that. the agreement in question combines very different facts, such as the recognition of crimes perpetrated during the colonial period, with promises of investment in exchange for commitments to control migration flows. now, it seems that the very mirage of italian investment in libya is attracting thousands of young people from west africa and it is easy to predict that if the promised 5 billion dollars does not arrive, it will be the people who arrive. what about the french interests in niger, linked to the supply of uranium, in whose name a war is being fomented between tuaregs, with the result that the organisers of human trafficking are being helped? and all this in broad daylight, documented by news reports. that means that there are some european governments who are playing with fire. if this does not change, and if it does not change quickly, if europe does not decide to act with positive policies consistent with our values, it will not be enough to turn a deaf ear to information as we are doing these days. the mediterranean is becoming a mass grave: it's a long way from the rhetorical images that describe it. but let us remember that this sea is linked to the fate of europe itself.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. it is a tragedy that has been repeated for a long time and has reached epochal proportions. the deaths of migrants at sea trying to reach our europe are without a doubt the greatest violation of life in civilized europe. these dramas show the shameful face of our fortress and perhaps we should also start thinking about our responsibility for the deaths of men and women who had only one ambition, to live better and to escape from hunger and war. so, we should probably analyze the fact that these shipwrecks in the mediterranean are not the anomaly of a mechanism that produces illegal immigration: the eu's immigration policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons. the murders in the mediterranean are caused by repressive policies, by the policies of rejection at sea, by the virtual barbed wire along our coasts, by the prohibitionist practices implemented in european policy and by the member states - italy and malta among them - on immigration. there is no other way to get into europe. there are no regular channels for access to the european labour market, nor for recognition of the sacred right to asylum. hope is delivered in the stormy waves of the mediterranean sea; the rights are being handed over to unscrupulous divers, who have become the only, or at least the most accessible, means of entering the european union. this is the real cause of the deaths off libya a few days ago. this is why in the last 20 years, the migrants who have died trying to reach europe are decided by thousands, nameless and faceless men and women, who have become exclusively food for fish. i have asked president poettering to open today's sitting with a minute's silence as a sign of mourning and of recognition of these martyrs. i thank him for accepting my request. i think that was a necessary act but obviously that's not enough: the european parliament is speaking out of indignation, but we should try to produce a policy, a concrete policy, to begin to say in this parliament: never again, never again, no more deaths in the mediterranean!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have worked so effectively on this report: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report. their valuable cooperation made the agreement at first reading possible. by taking over responsibility for the review of the ecolabel dossier on behalf of the european parliament, i have moved in the direction of giving a boost to this system which, through the constant updating of the environmental requirements for the products that bear it, encourages companies to make a continuous virtuous effort to raise the overall ecological quality standards of the products placed on the market. by increasing the production and distribution of ecolabelled products and services, we will achieve significant, permanent and growing environmental benefits in the coming years in terms of energy savings, reduction of air pollution and water savings. the ecolabel is a voluntary eco-label intended to promote the dissemination of products and services with a reduced environmental impact throughout their life cycle by providing consumers with accurate, non-misleading and scientifically correct information. the revision of this regulation is part of the wider european action plan for sustainable consumption and production and is closely linked to the revision of emas and the ecodesign directive. the revision of the regulation had already been provided for by the community legislature: the system must be reviewed in the light of experience and modified to increase its effectiveness, improve planning and simplify operation. the aim of the label is to guide consumers towards products that reduce their environmental impact. to date, the ecolabel experience has been mixed: on the one hand, an increasing number of companies are seeking quality certification in a wide range of sectors, thus recognising its selective and driving value. this certification is highly appreciated by consumers who are more concerned with the social responsibility of enterprises. on the other hand, a number of problems should be noted: the lack of awareness of the trade mark among the general public; the rapid obsolescence of criteria in relation to market developments; the bureaucratic delays that slow down the participation of operators. the new ecolabel brand will take on a new look, not only in terms of graphics but also in terms of content. it will become more attractive, its scope will be extended to new products: we expect to double the number of groups from the current 25 to 40-50 by 2015. promotion campaigns were planned; a marketing budget of eur 9.5 million has been implemented and a website will be made for which eur 15 000 is planned. the principle that most interested the shadow rapporteurs and was agreed by the other institutions was that the ecolabel should not just be a certification of an achievement but rather a dynamic tool in continuous evolution, a springboard that constantly pushes manufacturers and products towards higher environmental quality standards, continuously assessing excellence in the market and setting new criteria accordingly. what we want to ensure is a control of the entire life cycle of the product, which allows the maximum consideration of the environmental impact at all stages of production and allows all operators in the sector, as well as ngos, to participate actively in the process of reviewing the criteria for compromise. (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. - i accept your invitation.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. eco-labelling is sustainable, but it is also environmentally friendly: this is the challenge of the new framework regulation on the ecolabel. the regulation is a first step. the european parliament and the council have had fruitful and constructive negotiations, at least on the chemicals side. it is now up to the commission to develop the criteria, implement a work plan and draw up a first list of products within one year. the individual member states must organise the national competent authority, liaise with the european body and adopt the sustainability criteria as binding. but what is environmental sustainability for the ecolabel? it means applying innovative production criteria to the entire product lifecycle, from reducing emissions in production techniques, to reducing the energy consumption of primary goods such as water, to locating production close to the final consumer, which is a real revolution. this is the challenge that we face in a coherent fight against climate change but also in a genuine innovation of the way we produce. in developing these criteria, the commission and the new community body are invited to involve the active players and best practices actively, drawing on the innovations they have experienced in their production cycles, thus making them accessible and transparent. the respect of social standards at work is an integral part of these criteria, even if the regulation still maintains, because of incomprehensible pressure from the council in the final negotiations, a legally unacceptable deadline. it's called "if necessary". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social clauses. the exclusions for products that contain toxic chemicals, substances harmful to the environment, carcinogens or substances harmful to reproduction are clear and effective. warning: the european parliament's control over this will be particularly rigid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tatarella report on the community eco-label is indispensable. i congratulate the rapporteur and the committee and i think that the way in which products are produced and their originality should be clear and certain. this is certainly for consumer production, but also to ensure fairness for businesses and to prevent unfair and unfair competition, which is often carried out by those who do not respect the same social and ecological parameters in the production of products, from continuing to cause damage and distort the market, as is happening. so, the same environmental protection rules, and of course the same social rights for workers: the institutions should be responsible for monitoring this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again on his excellent report.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to apologize for not being able to attend on time and to thank you for the opportunity to speak after the first round of group contributions. i very much appreciate the discussions, because it shows that the contributions that have been made so far appreciate the work of the rapporteurs, the commission and the council. it seems that there is a general consensus on the two motions for resolutions which we are assuming at first reading, and i am very pleased about that. these proposals are part of the sixth community action programme and its package, published by the commission in july 2008, and it is clear from that draft action programme that there is a need to change behavioural patterns, consumption patterns and production patterns, that the way we produce and consume is unsustainable. we are damaging the climate, we are damaging the environment, we are damaging people's health and we are draining natural resources unsustainably. this issue is one of the priorities of the czech presidency and i believe that the adoption and revision of the existing eco-labelling and emas regulations will largely achieve this presidency priority. i would like to thank the european commission and the member states, and to a large extent the european parliament, for their work on these regulations, the rapporteur linda mcavan for emas, the rapporteur salvatore tatarello for the ecolabel, and all the others who have been involved in this work. as regards eco-labelling, the council and parliament worked together with the commission to produce a compromise text which improves the voluntary system of product labelling, in particular by simplifying the awarding system. what's very important is that for consumers, the eco-label should be more attractive. it allows for extension to other products, it has also solved the problem of possible labelling of food products, and thus the consumer will be able to consider and take into account the environmental impact of products and services in his consumer choice, and this is very important. the compromise text on emas will in turn increase the visibility of organisations that voluntarily participate in the scheme and thus its attractiveness. i think it is very important that the administrative burden for large, small and medium-sized enterprises is reduced. there's been a lot of debate about the cost of this system, and i think we've found a reasonable compromise of minimum cost, but covering the transaction cost of implementing this brand. i think it is important to emphasise that the revised emas will also be open to organisations outside the european union, which should also increase the authority of the system, as it will move towards a greater, more global use of the system. i am convinced that the adoption of these regulations will really benefit european businesses, that they will create new opportunities that are related to the current crisis and at the same time to the solution of the biggest global environmental problem, which is global climate change. i would like to thank the european parliament, the rapporteurs, the members for their fruitful cooperation on the compromise and look forward to continuing this debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate that has taken place this morning up to now has shown that there has been a great deal of work and sharing on this subject. the fact that emas, after consulting the council, can probably be concluded with an agreement at first reading and only a trilogue, means just that. so what do we have to say and add to what has already been said? emas and the ecolabel are certainly tools to promote informed choices by businesses, associations, institutions and consumers. but we must improve communication, as many colleagues who spoke before me have said. i also reiterate this, because i think this is the essential step. we have an international iso system which is known to everyone, as evidenced by the number of registrations. as the european union, we must make it clear to businesses why they should choose the european system over the international one. raising environmental awareness for all by involving only 4,000 to 5,000 companies in the european union, as has been done so far, is not a good result and we must improve it and to improve it we need above all information, information, information. municipalities, for example, don't know that they could be emas certified by setting a great example; or perhaps the communications have certainly reached the offices but have not yet penetrated the minds and consciousness of our administrators. so emas is looking for more participation. employees in an emas organisation all contribute to improving environmental performance: we use less water, we use more energy, we sort waste. this should become an objective to be achieved, firstly, by those who can be an example to others, and secondly, by those who believe that by using this method they can benefit themselves, the companies, the community, our consumers who feel more secure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. i 'm sure of it . will further promote the diffusion of ecolabel products in europe. at a time when environmental issues are on the agenda and demand for green products is growing even in non-european countries, such as the united states or china, the ecolabel will be one of the tools to make european products increasingly competitive on the international market. the ecolabel is not just an environmental quality label: but through a continuous upward revision of the environmental excellence criteria of the products themselves, the ecolabel will become an incentive for continuous improvement and innovation. this text will allow for the wider dissemination of ecolabel products and increase awareness of them, without, however, reducing the guarantees of consumer health protection. in conclusion, my country, italy, is in first place in europe in terms of the number of licences granted, and a large number of these are in the tourism sector, which can derive added value from a european environmental quality label that is appreciated and guaranteed by european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully understand the rapporteur's good intentions, but i think that this ecolabel goes against the big problems facing agriculture and production today, especially at a time of crisis. first of all, i believe it is essential to protect national production from unfair competition - i am thinking of countries like china, where there is even still slavery in production; i think of the laos, the concentration camps where there is both agricultural production and manufacturing; i am thinking also of certain drinks which are consumed all over the world, but whose composition is not even known. we know that europe is currently producing low levels of wheat and other agricultural products and in general, especially in a time of crisis, i am concerned that this may be resolved by raising costs for our producers and not by attacking what is the great problem of the crisis and, in fact, of the european national economy, which is unfair competition.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may i also thank all those who took part in the debate, which showed a broad convergence of views on the work done by the committee on the environment. the debate also provided additional enriching insights, additional incentives, additional suggestions, which i hope the commission and the member states will be able to take advantage of in future work. parliament, with this debate and with today's vote, has virtually closed its engagement on these two important issues. the commission has the floor. i am very pleased to note the three statements recorded by the commissioner. we expect the commission to be punctual in its food study so that any possibility of confusion between this label and organic products can be eliminated. we are waiting for the fisheries regulation - the committee on fisheries is particularly waiting for it. i thank the committee on fisheries for helping us to get through what was a very difficult time. i would draw the commission's attention to the derogations for toxic products: use very carefully and very cautiously. the commission's promotional campaigns should be effective and timely so as to reach the general public, and especially the young. we hope that the deadlines we have tried to set will be respected and that the reduction in animal testing will also be respected. one small perplexity and regret: i think that we should have done more in the area of procurement. it'll be some other time.
mr president, the bureau of this parliament had officially informed us that the attendance of members in committee and in plenary would be made public on the european parliament's website. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, mr. president, i ask you this: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. i would not like us to fail to make this transparency, which is something we have also committed ourselves to do for the electors and the citizens of europe, for purely bureaucratic reasons.
mr president, i appreciate the rapporteur's proposal, but this resolution makes too many references, not only to this point and to this note of the oral amendment proposed, but to many other parts of the resolution, it refers to all the member states for different reasons and it also refers to the same matter which you ask to be deleted from the note, for the same matters to other parts of the resolution. so, mr president, i think it would be appropriate for the honourable member to ask, and i propose that she does, that the resolution be amended further and then returned to committee for reconsideration.
mr president, on the admissibility of mr valean's amendment: it is right that mr vălean has taken a step back and corrected the text by deleting the generic and equivocal reference to third and fourth wives, which has created doubts about the legitimacy of polygamy. it should be noted, however, that the questionnaire sent to the member states contained this erroneous terminology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of free movement for women is guaranteed. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i just wanted to stress the need to support strongly the statement which was supported this morning by a provisional decision. it is not possible that in a document of the european union, in particular in a document to be voted on by the european parliament, the possibility of recognising polygamous marriages is even mentioned. this is not part of the culture of the european union. there must be no place in the legal space of the european union for positions of this kind, which are contrary to our tradition, which is the tradition of christian europe, and which express, among other things, a principle of suppression of women's rights. the decision taken this morning is therefore very important, but it is also very worrying that such a note has been inserted in a document of the european parliament with a serious sense of irresponsibility.
mr president, soviet totalitarianism has not only imprisoned people. unfortunately, it has also imprisoned history and its documents. millions of pages of history have been kept hidden in the secret archives and still in moscow. entire trains of documents transferred millions of historical documents, partly stolen from the germans but largely looted directly or, as in italy, through the communist partisans. we would like our history to be accessible. europe must ask for it, it must get it. documents not to be consulted: the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
in writing. - i give my favourable vote on the report by mr parish on the proposal for a council decision amending council directive 2008/73/ec simplifying the procedures for drawing up lists and disseminating information in the veterinary and zootechnical field.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mrs niebler on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 808/2004 on community statistics on the information society. i consider the amendments tabled to be fundamental, because they are useful for the production of harmonised, reliable, timely and high-quality community statistics on the information society.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mr glattfelder on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation amending annex 11 to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr varvitsiotis on mutual recognition of precautionary measures. i believe that pre-trial detention should be considered an exceptional measure which should be carefully weighed against the right to liberty and the presumption of innocence. unfortunately, i agree with the rapporteur that it has not been possible to recognize alternative measures to transfrontier detention, because there is no specific instrument of mutual recognition, which hinders the judicial protection of individual rights. this is an aspect which needs to be discussed again.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the work done by mrs jöns on the new types of costs which can be covered by the esf. i agree with the commission's proposal, which aims to introduce an additional, simpler method of using the european social fund's appropriations, so that its capacity to react to the economic and social difficulties facing europe is more rapid and effective. i also welcome the fact that the esf will continue to support actions to expand and improve investment in human capital, in particular by strengthening education and training systems, and actions to develop institutional capacity and efficiency in public administrations at national, regional and local level.
in writing. - having carefully read the recommendation by mr garcia perez on the provisions relating to the financial management of the erdf, the esf and the cohesion fund, i do not think that the european economy can receive a serious boost from the publication by the european commission of a communication entitled 'a european economic recovery plan', containing a series of specific measures to stimulate investment and to allocate additional public funds to national economies facing severe budgetary constraints.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain from voting on the report by hannu takkula on education for the children of migrants. i do not think that there are any prerequisites for voting in favour or against the work of my colleague.
in writing. - despite the fact that some compromise positions were reached between the various political groups in the libe committee on many key points in the vălean report, and despite the firm belief and political position, which i express on behalf of the ppe-de group as shadow rapporteur on the report, that the free movement of community citizens is a fundamental right of the eu, the final text of the report contains a number of inappropriate references, which are set out in some footnotes to recital s, which force us, as the italian delegation of the ppe-de, to vote against the report in the house, because of the single block vote provided for this type of report. the references contained in the report are considered by the italian delegation of the epp-ed to be inappropriate and completely out of context, as they relate to issues outside the scope of the directive, since they are matters of member states' competence, such as public security, legality and family law.
in writing. - i vote against the report by mrs valean on the application of directive 2004/38/ec on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside within the territory of the member states. i do not agree with the statement that member states are required to adopt identification documents of the same format for their own nationals and for citizens of the union from other member states, without prejudice to the differences in the documents. i find this solution superficial and unnecessary.
in writing. - i am voting against the work done by mrs gacek on the problems and prospects of european citizenship. i do not think that there is much need to express concern about the poor implementation of the existing directives, particularly the directive on free movement, which raises a number of problems relating to freedom of movement and other rights of union citizens, because i do not think that the real situation we are in corresponds to the picture described by the honourable member.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr markov on community statistics on external trade with third countries. i think that in order to achieve the desired results, it is necessary to reduce the so-called rotterdam effect, which, according to the commission and the council, leads to an overrepresentation in the external trade statistics of member states which show a high volume of exports or customs clearance, but which only play the role of transit countries, to the detriment of the member states of actual destination or dispatch of goods.
in writing. i am voting against the report by mrs doyle on the determination of residue limits for pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin. i agree with the purpose, but not the methods. in order to achieve the desired objectives, i do not consider that limiting the exposure of consumers to the pharmacologically active substances in veterinary medicinal products for food-producing animals and to the residues of those substances in food of animal origin is a good solution. it would bypass the root of the problem, which is actually rooted in other issues.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr angelakas on investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing under the erdf. i share the rapporteur's view that the financing instruments available to the european union must be modified as quickly and effectively as possible in order to meet the emerging challenges linked to the current economic crisis. the european union as a key global player cannot afford to fall behind in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing efficiency. to do this, all the member states and all the regions of the union, not just those in the new member states, must be able to invest and carry out projects in these areas, also considering the clear benefits in terms of job creation, which is absolutely necessary in the very difficult economic situation we are going through.
in writing. i am going to vote against the report by mr lax on the community visa code. i believe that the objectives which the commission is pursuing in the context of the hague programme, namely to establish a system to facilitate legitimate travel and to combat illegal immigration, cannot be achieved by harmonising national laws and practices for the handling of applications at local consular representations. much remains to be done in the area of dialogue and cooperation between the member states, and we should proceed along this path rather than along the path of incorporating into a single visa code all the provisions concerning the issuing of visas and decisions on refusal, extension, cancellation, revocation and reduction of the period of validity of visas issued, measures for which this european union is absolutely not ready and capable of handling. i therefore do not think that the proposed system should be approved and carried forward.
in writing. i support the report by mr tatarella on the community eco-label system. i believe that this proposal fits perfectly into the european action plan for sustainable production and consumption and, consequently, into the general objective of developing a voluntary and integrated system which encourages companies to improve their products with a view to improving their quality from the point of view of food and consumer protection, but also their ecological footprint, by achieving higher standards of environmental protection and energy efficiency. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in such an important and crucial context for our producers, even the smallest ones, because it is precisely by emphasizing quality and respect for food and ecological standards that they are able to distinguish themselves and to resist in an increasingly global and competitive environment.
in writing. - i congratulate mr mcavan on the excellent work he has done and i declare that i support his report on voluntary membership of organisations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (emas) with my vote in favour. the objective of improving the environmental performance of organisations over the long term is certainly to be supported, as are all the small and large-scale instruments aimed at achieving it. i also join the rapporteur in welcoming the amendments proposed by the commission, in particular the one concerning lower rates and less frequent reporting by smes, for whom membership of this system would be more onerous but no less important. i also think that the alignment of emas definitions with the existing iso 14001 definitions is welcome, as it would facilitate the transition from the former to the latter, and that simplification of the language could be very useful, especially for small organisations.
in writing. − the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of religion or personal belief, disability, age or sexual orientation goes far beyond community law: it is an inalienable principle of the human person. i therefore have to vote against the report by mrs buitenweg on the proposal for a council directive. i believe that this directive is only intended to mitigate the issues on which the european union should already be very active and very present.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on european consciousness and totalitarianism. i am firmly convinced that we must raise awareness in europe of the crimes committed by totalitarian and undemocratic regimes, because i believe that european integration cannot be consolidated without promoting the preservation of historical memory, provided that all aspects of europe's past are recognised. i also support the proposal to proclaim a 'european day of remembrance' for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes.
in writing. - i express my opposition to the motions for resolutions on the role of culture in the development of europe's regions. i believe that the proposed initiatives, while having the shared aim of promoting regional and local development in the eu, are not sufficient to ensure that these objectives are achieved; i particularly doubt the effectiveness of these initiatives in promoting linguistic and cultural identities, considering that they are not accompanied by other, more far-reaching initiatives and policies.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr onyszkiewicz on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the new eu-russia agreement. i do not agree with the rapporteur on the recommendations to the council and the commission for the continuation of negotiations with russia, because i do not think they are sufficient to ensure a fair understanding, respectful of the rights and prerogatives of the european union, which can promote the development of good relations between the actors concerned. i therefore believe that greater efforts must be made on both sides if this objective is to be achieved.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs ries on the health concerns associated with electromagnetic fields. i agree with the rapporteur that the problem of the impact of electromagnetic devices on the health of citizens should be given wide attention, and that studies and research in this field should be encouraged, so that this subject, which is giving rise to a growing debate, can be clarified more and more precisely and in greater depth. i therefore agree with the commission in calling for a clear policy on electromagnetic waves, although i am aware of the member states' exclusive competence in certain areas, such as mobile telephony waves.
in writing. - i am voting against the report by mr schmitt on 'better schools: an agenda for european cooperation'. although i agree in principle with the general aims of the report and with the need to review european education systems to improve their quality, i do not believe that the report does not provide any effective solutions to promote real improvements in the quality of teaching and the prerogatives of the school as a place of communication and socialisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hokmark report on a community framework for nuclear safety must be postponed for two reasons: the first reason is that the legal affairs committee has approved the idea that there is a formal constitutional problem in the commission proposal because, as required by the euratom regulation, the commission must obtain the opinion of a technical committee before working on this proposal, which it has twice failed to do and the legal affairs committee has recognised that this is a constitutional defect, i.e. a defect which requires the withdrawal and re-presentation of the commission in accordance with the rules in force; and the second reason is that there is no reason to rush because these regulations will only apply to power plants that will perhaps be built after 2015. so there is no reason to be in a hurry, there is no reason to approve a text which has this important formal vice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the political groups and the heads of the italian delegations, i ask you, on behalf of my group, to include a debate on the earthquake in abruzzo on tomorrow's agenda. i believe that the people affected will appreciate the closeness shown by the european institutions and by you personally with condolences and a minute's silence and will also appreciate any financial and legislative support for reconstruction. for these reasons, a debate in the presence of the european commission can provide national and local institutions with much useful information about what the european union can do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express the socialist group's agreement with the proposal put forward by mrs angelilli. i would like to thank president pöttering for his words and the whole house for expressing its heartfelt solidarity with the people affected. i too believe that the debate tomorrow afternoon can bring not only renewed solidarity but also concrete proposals, because europe can make an important contribution to the reconstruction and to the emergency facing the people of abruzzo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is truly surreal, in the sense that we are indeed among those who are suspended: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is where we stand! it seems to me that on such an important subject it would be appropriate to understand what the commission wants to do: whether to continue, whether to stop, whether to withdraw, whether to table a legislative proposal. the only thing we want is for the commission to tell us what it wants to do, and then to say it publicly, in a debate in parliament!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to speak about what happened inside fiat in brussels. fiat has invented a kidnapping of its executives by workers, with the sole aim of decapitating the union. there was no kidnapping, not on april 9th or ever. the news was spread by fiat in an attempt to discredit the workers who defend their future against 24 layoffs. fiat refuses to have any meeting, any discussion and any negotiation with the union representatives. the only objective is to dismiss 24 workers, 12 of whom are trade union representatives. i think it would be appropriate for parliament to discuss not only this fact but also the anti-union behaviour, which does not respect the rights of workers, of fiat and of many large european multinationals, which in turn benefit from the rules and often also from subsidies of the national states and the european union and which do not respect the rights of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary i urged you to respect parliament's commitments and to publish the figures on the attendance of members at parliamentary activities. you, mr president, assured me that at the next bureau meeting - which will be held in exactly 40 minutes - this point would be discussed. i understand that this item is not on the agenda for the bureau's meeting at 6.30 p.m. since the elections are now just over a month away and parliament has committed itself to publishing data and information on the attendance of members at parliamentary activities, and there will now be very few opportunities, i do not know if perhaps a meeting of the bureau formally to deal with the matter, the general secretariat had undertaken to provide a report on the basis of which the presidency could take a decision; i ask you , mr. president: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations.
this point is closed.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: recommendation for the second reading by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on parliament's common position c01708/0804 (cod0548/0118) on the council directive 2008/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2003/54/ec (cod0239/023 (cod045/06)) on the proposal for a council directive on the transposition of council directive 2008/55/ec on the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2007/54/ec (cod0239/018 (cod045/06)) on the proposal for a council directive on the transposition of council directive 2007/54/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing council directive 2003/54/ec (cod0239/018 (cod0236/06)) on the common position of the council on the common position of the european parliament and of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an agency for cooperation between national energy regulators (codirective 2007/55/ec) on the internal market in electricity and energy (com (2008/2649) c02368/0236 (cod)) on the proposal for a directive of the council on the transposition of the council on the internal market in electricity and energy for the internal market for the european parliament and council directive of the european parliament and council directive 2007/54/67/ec) (codirective of the european parliament and council directive of the european parliament and council directive of 23/ec) (codirective of 23/ec) (codirective of the european parliament and council directive 2007/ec
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the czech presidency, the commission, the chairman of the committee on energy and industry, mr niebler, and the other rapporteurs on this energy package, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee secretariat and all its officials for the cooperation and expertise shown in this dossier. we can and should all be proud of the result achieved; i am, thinking of the effort i made when i inherited the directive on the internal gas market, with problems that are not easily solved. i am glad that i have made this, my second experience as a member of the european parliament, coincide with the final phase of this package, which i consider to be one of the most important dossiers of this legislature, for the benefit of the european citizens who are our electors. the gas directive, which will come into force in 2011, brings significant new developments in the sector: the achievement of the ito option, which guarantees the opening up of markets and real progress towards a system which really allows the european union to speak with one voice on energy, must be emphasized as an important result. litit is the real novelty of this package and it is the one on which the european parliament has arguably had the best result. the new gas directive gives a lot of importance to the gas authorities and the agency. this directive legitimises the authorities in their role, particularly in those countries where they have to start their activities from scratch. it is therefore of fundamental importance that the role and powers of these bodies have been defined and that they have been given broad powers, since the authorities have the difficult task of monitoring the common energy market. another element, which was inserted during the trilogue phase, is the exemption from the common rules of the so-called closed systems, i.e. airports, hospitals, stations, industrial sites, etc., which, due to their particular characteristics, are subject to a more favourable regime, as a demonstration of the attention that the new directive pays to the needs of the european citizen. i believe that the european citizen is the one who will really benefit from this directive, because by using smart meters he will have access to all the information on the bill and will be able to evaluate the best offer on the market and choose his supplier according to convenience, because although it is true that it will take years to see the effects of this liberalisation, it is undeniable that the entry of new players on the market will lead to lower prices and more favourable market conditions for the citizens of the union. another important element is the recognition of european transmission system systems which will ensure the security of gas supply to european citizens. this also means strengthening and creating new infrastructure such as regasifiers and storage facilities which will be the driving force behind the third package. the opening up of a competitive market that guarantees long-term investment and contracts by companies in the sector is therefore required, particularly in the new member states where the creation of new infrastructure would also make it possible to solve problems of age-old dependence. the weakest consumer has been protected by allowing the national and regional authorities to guarantee gas supplies at the most critical moments. the successful outcome of the gas directive of the whole energy package once again highlights the role of europe and its institutions for the european citizens.
mr stolojan, since you have been so present in this debate, even though i told you that you exceeded the number, i think that your responsibility and your presence should be rewarded, so i shall exceptionally give you the floor for a minute.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this joint debate has produced a very strong feeling: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it will not be the last, because, as you know, there is a great push to use other sources of energy, renewable and nuclear, but it will certainly help to satisfy hunger and the need for energy in the next 10 to 15 to 20 years and to anticipate and, of course, protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. i believe that mr morgan, the undersigned and all the other honourable members, have played a very important role in defending the weak consumer, giving a great deal of power to the national and regional authorities, who can, at critical moments, change, i do not say give free energy, but certainly change and allow a continuous supply of this energy. the other key point is this: i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative to adopt this package, which is essential for energy consumers. i think there is nothing more serious than not letting people know who is benefiting from a great work without informing them. i think that the task which will fall to the commission, the council and parliament, before they even bother to apply this package, is to let consumers know that this package exists, what has been done for them, in their capacity and for them again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009. the vote on the report by silvia-adriana ţicău will take place on thursday 23 april 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 717/2007 on roaming on public mobile networks within the community and directive 2002/21/ec establishing a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com ((2008) 0580 - c6-0333/2008 - 2008/0187 (cod)) (a6-0138/2009).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport and tourism welcomes the fact that the utilization rates of commitment and payment appropriations in ten projects continue to be high, reaching almost 100%, and calls on the member states to ensure that national budgets make adequate funds available to meet this union commitment. it is concerned at the low rate of utilisation of the commitment appropriations for transport safety and the galileo surveillance authority and of the payment appropriations for the internal market and the optimisation of transport systems and for passenger rights. it welcomes the fact that the maximum rate of financial aid for crossborder projects has been increased to 30% and the minimum funding threshold has been raised to eur 1 million, 1.5 billion. i would also point out that the evaluation procedure for the selection of projects and the monitoring of projects has been improved, but at the same time i regret that the structure for the description of the work has not been harmonised and that the technical and financial controls have not been uniformised.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear to everyone that a cycle of development has come to an end, one which in recent years has brought to light the imbalances and contradictions of a way of understanding globalisation: an ultra-liberal globalisation that has in too many cases enjoyed the weakness of institutions and that has seen politics as a stumbling block, a nuisance to be rid of. and now it is the task of politics to restore the confidence of the citizens in the deep crisis of the economy that is taking place and to do this it is necessary that politics take the lead by indicating the prospects and the obstacles to be overcome: the contradiction between the rapid growth of the world market and the weakness of institutions capable of acting as a counterweight and a check against the overwhelming power of the financial economy must be remedied! the regulation on credit rating agencies is an important step forward in this respect, a dossier on which i worked as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, in full agreement with jean-paul gauzès, the author of the report, to whom i extend my warmest congratulations. the most important features of the regulation are the result of parliament's efforts in the difficult negotiations with the council. i am referring to concrete achievements, such as the registration requirement for agencies on european territory, the provision and civil liability, the double security system for the approval of notes from third countries and above all the possibility that this regulation will enter into force quickly and not after two years as initially requested by national governments. but this also has a strong symbolic value, because we are regulating a sector which, like others, and i am thinking of speculative funds, for example, has enjoyed a total legislative vacuum in recent years. the results of this kind of self-management are plain to see and they are dramatic: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for this reason i regard it as a missed opportunity, a point of sorrow, so to speak, in view of the excellent result achieved, the missed opportunity of not having wanted to provide for this in the text, because of the opposition of the member states. this is a request which has been officially put to parliament, but which continues to be rejected because of a lack of political ambition and realism. parliament continues to show that it is able to look ahead in this respect, and it is hoped that national governments will do the same.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is far from being solved, even though membership of the euro area has contributed to a certain degree of stability in europe. the international monetary fund estimates the cost of the financial crisis at $4 trillion, two-thirds of which is due to banks. the objectives to be achieved are many: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. this can only be achieved by an economic policy capable of restoring the financial system, but europe does not yet have an economic policy! despite the proposals of the g20 in london to give a new impetus to the credit system, the lack of clear rules for the financial market, its operators, the products offered and derivatives remains serious - as we have been denouncing for years. markets should be regulated and supervised, especially for the financial sector, which has unchecked started an unprecedented spiral of indebtedness. what about this huge debt built on unsecured credit? reset it to zero? put it in a cleaning mechanism put in place by the banks? prohibit future otc derivative transactions and urge banks to terminate their derivative contracts definitively? we need clear answers, new credit lines for small and medium-sized enterprises and savers, to prevent uncontrolled relocations, and to bring the wto rules back into line with reality. if we don't talk about rules of global trade, we won't solve anything. in other words, in the face of a systemic crisis, the system must be reformed, by giving back to politics the role of guiding which has too often been lacking, by returning attention to the real economy and abandoning the easy and drugged sirens of virtual finance!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to criticise and point out the delays, but it is also right and appropriate to say that today we are taking a step forward and that in the face of this terrible crisis which has shaken the world economies, the european institutions are presenting specific legislative measures in key areas such as rating agencies and insurance. i believe that the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of direct insurance and reinsurance is of considerable importance, at least as far as i have followed it. the agreement reached in extremis with the council essentially provided these sectors with new, more efficient rules which take account of real market dynamics and are outside the framework of fixed formulae. the principles of economic valuation and capital requirements, which are responsive to the risks actually taken by firms, incentives for risk management, harmonisation, reporting supervision, public information and transparency are all essential to make the insurance sector more competitive and to strengthen the protection of insured persons. the final compromise was to find solutions to the problems of possible procyclical effects, new rules and investment treatment. we could have done more, of course, but i think we have reached a point where we can take further steps.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 24 april. (the sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have many reservations about this report, starting, as was said a moment ago, with a forecast which seems disconcerting at a time when we in europe have the problem of cash integration or even redundancies for millions of workers. to predict 60 million new immigrants to come to work in europe seems to me to be a forecast out of this world. but also to emphasize that while we are discussing here how to regulate and how to organize the future of immigration, tragedies are happening - thank god they are being spared by the sense of humanity of our country and the good government of minister maroni - such as the one that could have happened in the case of the turkish ship pinar. what is europe doing? in 600 cases - and mr maroni rightly complains - malta has not taken, has not taken, although it is financed by the european union, that action to take concrete action to deal with the landings from the north african coast. in all these cases, he had to intervene in our country, which can no longer cope with a reception centre in lampedusa, which, as we all know, is now well beyond its means. then europe must intervene and set out the rules! we demand a substantial increase in funding for our country to properly meet this challenge! europe wakes up and regulates the flow of immigration seriously: you can't go on like this!
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the european commission has always been extremely careful to guarantee the individual rights of mobile citizens, especially as regards those benefits relating to social security. the free movement of citizens within the eu's borders is one of the fundamental freedoms of the citizen and it promotes the development of the internal economy of our member states. that is why the commission wants to step up its efforts to ensure that eu citizens and their families actually enjoy the rights guaranteed by existing european legislation. although in some areas national legislation provides community citizens and their families with better treatment than that provided for in current european legislation, no member state has ratified all the directives issued in this field in a completely correct manner. the violation of the fundamental rights of eu citizens in the exercise of the right of free movement within the european territory, which is often continuous, is particularly evident in relation to the following phenomena: the right of entry and residence of family members who are third-country nationals; the lack of assistance for work-related accidents. we hope that the commission will continue its technical cooperation with the member states, which has already identified a number of issues for further discussion and clarification, particularly with regard to abuses.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. one of the most debated points in the policies discussed by the european union is the implementation of a common policy for the protection of individuals. the concept of personality is certainly very broad, but today a common definition has been reached, meaning all those individuals who hold an official or unofficial position and who may be threatened because of their contributions to the public debate. the incidents involving former member of the dutch parliament, hirshi ali, who was threatened in february 2008 after her valuable speech on the extremely topical issue of islamic radicalisation in europe, and the famous anglo-indian writer samal rushdie, persecuted because of his controversial views on the islamic religion, were well known. it is therefore desirable that every person who is concerned with the positive development of public debate should have the right to be protected when visiting a state where he might be threatened or attacked, especially as in the case of samal rushdie, where the death sentence has already been pronounced against him by a third state.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the alpine region is one of the most important and richest territories within the european community. it has eight neighbouring states which have signed joint agreements on the protection and conservation of this region and a common transport management policy since 4 april 1998. in the transport sector, the so-called 'protocol on the implementation of the alpine convention in the field of transport' was adopted on 24-26 may 2000 and its main task was to provide a regulatory framework for sustainable mobility in the region. although this protocol has not yet been accepted by all eight alpine states, we will endeavour to ensure that it can be ratified by the other alpine states in a short time and that ratification of the 'protocol on transport' becomes one of the main priorities of the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the florin david report on interoperability solutions for european public administrations (isa), which aims to support cooperation between european public administrations. this programme facilitates effective and efficient cross-border and cross-sectoral electronic interaction between european administrations to enable the provision of e-public services that can facilitate the implementation of community activities and policies for citizens and businesses. this will facilitate the free movement, establishment and work of citizens in the member states without obstacles, and will provide citizens and public administrations with better, more efficient and easily accessible services. i believe that international cooperation should be encouraged and that the isa programme should also be open to the participation of the countries of the european economic area and the candidate countries. they agree to encourage cooperation with other third countries and international organisations or bodies. the participation of the candidate countries in the isa programme is a fundamental step in preparing the public administration of these states for the tasks and working methods entailed by eu accession. i think that we need to look more closely at the possibility of using pre-accession funds to facilitate the participation of the applicant countries in the isa programme.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the environmental and health effects of pesticide use have been debated at european level and the european parliament has adopted directives on the authorisation and sale of pesticides. this measure lays down the essential health and safety requirements to be met by pesticide application machines placed on the internal market in order to enjoy free circulation within the community. the legislation, in addition to protecting consumers, is aimed at protecting the health and safety of operators. the costs incurred by manufacturers will probably be passed on to users through price increases, but the resulting average annual reduction in pesticide consumption will allow users to make savings that will offset any price increases. the proposed directive achieves the objective of ensuring a common level of environmental protection while avoiding a fragmented regulatory framework at community level, which can generate high costs for companies wishing to operate also beyond national borders.
in writing. - the aim of the proposal for a regulation under consideration, namely to ensure community control of compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy through its own agency, is certainly worthwhile and meets the many requests made over the years by the european parliament and the european commission. the regulation also suggests - albeit timidly - that the same rules should be implemented and applied uniformly in the 27 member states. while i share the spirit behind the text (supporting the culture of respect for the rules for the correct application of the common fisheries policy), i note that, unfortunately, on this occasion too, the specific features of mediterranean fisheries have not been taken into account. just to give you an example: the obligation to install a satellite vessel monitoring system (vms) on vessels over 10 metres in length may be acceptable for large-sized north sea vessels, but not for small mediterranean vessels, often without cabins, which are often engaged in what is known as 'small-scale fishing'. the problem of the high costs involved is also raised, but this could be overcome with 80% community co-financing, as appropriately suggested in amendment no 20.
the next item is the commission statement on the earthquake in the abruzzo region of italy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission sends its condolences to all families who have lost their loved ones in the recent earthquake in italy. the commission has been in close contact with the italian civil protection authorities since the first hours after the earthquake. member states started offering their help through the community civil protection mechanism at a very early stage of the disaster. while this earthquake was very powerful and brought a lot of destruction, national resources were able to cope with the immediate disaster response. however, on 10 april italy made a request for technical experts who could support the country in analysing the stability of buildings damaged by the earthquake. a team of eight national and commission experts was selected. the team was despatched to the site of the earthquake on 18 april. in addition to the assessment of the stability of the buildings, the team will propose solutions with regard to damaged buildings. the commission is currently cooperating with the italian authorities in order to identify options for other eu support. possibilities may include the eu solidarity fund and the reprogramming of the structural and rural development funds. this earthquake is a tragic reminder that natural disasters are a continual threat for all member states. over the last decade earthquakes, heat waves, forest fires, floods and storms have killed many people in europe and destroyed costly infrastructure and precious natural spaces. the member states and the community need to combine their strength to prevent disasters and their impacts and to ensure a rapid and effective european response to major disasters. experience has shown that an integrated and multi-hazard approach should be taken to develop effective measures in both in prevention and in direct response to disasters, as outlined in the commission communication of march 2008 on reinforcing the union’s disaster-response capacity. furthermore, in february 2009 the commission adopted a community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters that represents the state of the art and paves a way for future commission initiatives. it suggests improving the consistency of existing prevention instruments and complementing them, thus reinforcing the added value of eu action. the commission would welcome feedback from the european parliament on the approach proposed in this important communication. furthermore, thanks to the preparatory action on an eu rapid response capability introduced by the european parliament in the 2008 and 2009 budgets, the commission is currently testing, with the member states, ways to improve the overall immediate response capacity of the eu. together, these initiatives are contributing to shaping a genuine european disaster management policy for all types of disaster.
thank you, commissioner kallas! i take this opportunity to welcome the presence of commission vice-president tajani and to avoid being blamed for a moment of distraction or insensibility, i would remind you that yesterday we observed a minute's silence, with the president of parliament, in memory of the victims of this tragedy.
in the period 2002-2007, earthquakes were the fourth most frequent natural disaster in the european union. after this tragedy in abruzzo, which is unfortunately very serious, we must face these tragic events, which are common to many member states, together. the european solidarity fund and the community civil protection mechanism are now in place: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the mediterranean countries, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. the magnitude of this earthquake and the damage caused are not yet quantifiable: abruzzo needs urgent and substantial measures which the italian government has been taking in a timely and comprehensive manner since the earthquake. however, these measures need european coordination, while respecting national and local competences. on 14 november 2007, parliament unanimously adopted a resolution on the regional impact of earthquakes, concerning the prevention and management of damage caused by such tragic events. this document must become the basis for a coordinated european policy on this subject, is the content of the written question proposed by mr vakalis and some fifty other co-signatories. we therefore hope that the european commission will take up the contents of this resolution and apply them to a european agenda for earthquake prevention and management.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to renew the condolences of the italian members of parliament and all the members of the socialist group to the families of the victims, to the citizens of abruzzo, to the region of abruzzo and to the country of italy. and i would like to say that the european socialist group, which has been close to the people so dramatically affected from the very beginning, will be - through its delegation headed by president schulz - also be physically present in the abruzzo region. the numbers are frightening: it is true, as my colleague mr albertini said, that there is no definitive figure yet, but we can say that there are about 300 dead! it is a tragedy. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. as the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, has said, the response to what happened was immediate and effective. it was a race of solidarity, a race of solidarity, on the part of the state, but not only on the part of the state, on the part of the world, of the voluntary sector, of the italian municipalities and not only the italian municipalities, of the provinces, of the regions, of the red cross, of the fire brigades. perhaps the italian government, or perhaps not, the italian government would have done well to accept the proposal to combine the referendum with the european elections and the administrative elections, in order to save a few hundred million which could have been spent on the earthquake victims. europe has some answers to give: first, the activation of the solidarity fund, which i discussed with vice-president tajani a few hours after the tragic event; secondly, the reprogramming of the structural funds. thirdly, commissioners, the use of funds not used in the old and new programming; fourthly, amendment of the regulation on cohesion policy and the structural funds, which covers the possibility of relocating to objective 1, i.e. to less-favoured regions whose development is lagging behind, those regions whose gdp, wealth and income would fall below 75% of the community average as a result of exceptionally unfavourable natural events. the commission has therefore decided to adopt a new regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i call for the implementation of the directive on building materials, which has also recently been updated and adapted by parliament. i would like to conclude by saying that rhetoric is not enough in the face of the tragedy that has occurred, we need effective and concrete responses, and we also need strong attention, vigilance so that the rubble of the earthquake does not repeat the looting and illegal uses that feed the big power stations of the criminal world. we will be vigilant and give our best effort: we must all make sure that our abruzzi friends can smile again!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a terrible tragedy in my country which has affected an important and central region such as abruzzo, the city of l'aquila. it was a catastrophe that affected human lives, young people, even human lives, that affected the places of life: homes; places of worship: churches; of culture: monuments; of work: companies; of universities: places of learning; and left a great devastation. we have all gathered around these people and today we can say a few things: first, there was a response of the greatest decorum and dignity of these peoples, who although they are so intimately and so practically affected by affection and the most precious things such as the home - and we know for the culture of our country how important the good of the home is - yet these people reacted with dignity and they want to start living again, to rebuild what they had, their community, within the places of their community and in respect of traditions and continuity. i am thinking of the importance of universities and small and mediumsized enterprises for a region which is also suffering from a very serious economic and recovery crisis. i must also say that there has been an extraordinary mobilization of the institutions; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the european network of information centres, the european network of information centres, the european networks, the european networks, the network of networks, the networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network of networks, the network, the network of networks, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, the network, even those who didn't go there did something: economically, culturally, all the cultural, social and economic places of our country are being mobilized, and this is a very important thing. but it will be important to remember it, as pittella said, for reconstruction, because alongside these aspects of the tragedy, which are also positive, the structural weakness of our way of building has emerged and i believe that here, alongside the demand for justice, we must be committed to assessing responsibility and reconstruction. a word about europe president: i would like to ask that there be a presence, even a visual presence, so that europe is known, not only in the money that comes in but also in the faces and in the institutions, and that a united delegation of this parliament goes there, without fancy, without publicity, but to say that europe is made up of institutions and people and that these institutions and people want to be close to aquila, abruzzo and also to my country, which is so wounded.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the community institutions for expressing their closeness to italy and to the people affected by the earthquake. these are very difficult days, made even worse by the weather conditions of the last 48 hours. but after the pain, after the destruction, it is time for concrete proposals and reconstruction, it is time to give a new perspective to the abruzzi territory. we ask the european institutions to do their part, as the commission has done through the commitment of vice-president antonio tajani, with great promptness in the immediate aftermath of the catastrophe. as the commission itself has confirmed today, it is first of all necessary to check all the available financial resources, to ensure that the european solidarity fund for natural disasters is activated quickly and then to ensure that it can be used to its full potential, to reprogram the european social fund and other community programmes to support employment and enterprises. but we are asking in particular for the possibility of implementing extraordinary legislative measures, tax relief measures, incentives, aid which may derogate from the existing de minimis provisions, measures authorised by the european union and valid for two or three years, that is, for the time necessary until the end of the emergency and reconstruction. on these issues, on these objectives, as is also clear from today's debate, we are all in agreement, there are no divisions. i too want to close with a heartfelt thought for the victims and their families and for the affected populations, but i would like to express once again my special thanks to the institutions, all the political parties and above all the rescuers, the civil protection and the red cross, with extraordinary pride, with the emotion of an italian, of a woman originally from those lands. all voluntary organizations and individual citizens who have made a personal or financial contribution to make their solidarity and practical help felt. a truly outstanding example of efficiency and humanity!
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group, the european free alliance, also joins all the colleagues who have preceded me in expressing our condolences, our great solidarity and our support for all those who have suffered from this great tragedy, this drama, this natural event, but which is also due to a whole series of reasons, and i really hope that the european union can make a visible positive contribution to this situation. everything can be said, however, except that this earthquake could not see its impact of very small and that its impact precisely tragic could not be less: it's obvious that a whole series of buildings, a whole series of houses have fallen and they shouldn't have. there has been negligence, there has been malice, there has been fraud and responsibility must be found because this too is an essential part of the reconstruction, also of the moral reconstruction of that place and those peoples and of our whole country. reconstruction must be an opportunity for sustainable development and great innovation for this population which has shown us all not only great decency but also great courage and a great desire to start over. at this moment the least demagogic, most concrete way to allow rapid action by europe to support the emergency and reconstruction of abruzzo is to discuss the reprogramming of the operational programme for abruzzo 2007-2013: the structural funds. the operational programme for abruzzo currently provides for european co-financing of eur 140 million, for a total cost of the programme of eur 345 million, the difference being national co-financing. we know very well that one of the problems that will have to be faced is that of the organization by our country of the cofinancing of the funds that the european union will certainly give, and it is on this that we as members of parliament must also be very, very vigilant. i said, first of all, that we must ask for the reprogramming and redirection of the other european funds, for example the social fund, which have already been programmed for abruzzo, towards measures and priorities useful for reconstruction. in this context, the abruzzo op could also be accompanied by a reallocation of structural fund resources to other italian regions which are currently more competitive. we know that the european commission is open to evaluating donations and with this same mechanism from other member states. secondly, the italian authorities, primarily the government with the cooperation of all the local authorities involved, must quickly estimate the direct damage suffered in order to meet the deadline of 15 june 2009 for submitting the request for funds under the european solidarity fund. the amount of the contribution will depend on the damage suffered, but in any case it cannot exceed a few million euros. this fund exists precisely to provide rapid, effective and flexible economic aid, so it is important that the italian authorities quantify this damage, otherwise it will be difficult to obtain funds. and then the national authorities must take action, and for this reason too we must work to apply for loans from the european investment bank, so that it is possible to provide substantial sums which can be given for a rapid and sustainable reconstruction of this region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the pain for the many innocent victims, then the commitment to help, to overcome the emergency, to rebuild, in which italy is doing its best. european help in this area is important, but we also need a european framework to help prevent these disasters, which are often not just natural; a prevention framework in the area of natural element warning is therefore needed, creating a civil protection and prevention network. but then there is also the need for a soil policy which provides for rules to guarantee its use in order to ensure that its balance is maintained and that safe building standards are met. we also have this in the abruzzo earthquake and, apart from any controversy, it is necessary to investigate all the responsibilities, to avoid serious events being repeated, and it is above all necessary to focus on territorial rehabilitation instead of new destructive works. but for this reason too it is of great importance that the framework directive on soil is also approved, which is a structural aid to the proper management of european soils, and towards a correct soil policy the european funds themselves must be re-directed, thus creating environmental restoration and good employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that the whole of italy, and indeed europe, was moved by this dramatic event, which shows the cohesion of the country and of europe when such events occur, and this can only nourish our hope for general solidarity and peace, including internal peace, which is breathed within europe, this europe. it is also necessary to strike out unequivocally, without any reservations and with urgency against those responsible for the bad construction which has led to different responses from neighbouring buildings. and finally, on the side, there was a controversy about the predictability of earthquakes, i do not go into that, i am simply saying that studies on radon indicate that the increase in this type of gas is likely to occur in the event of earthquakes, and i therefore think that it is right that, as is the case with all scientific research, europe, through all its structures, can and should encourage a deepening of these studies, because it is not excluded that through the deepening itself, as is proper to science, we can contribute to the purely hypothetical possibility of predicting such devastating events.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, there is no doubt that there is a strong feeling of solidarity in all member states, and in the commission as well, concerning this terrible earthquake. there are mechanisms for providing help, and the commission services acted immediately. everything must be done in close collaboration with the italian authorities. last year we had the huge disaster of the forest fires in greece and before that we had forest fires in portugal and the floods in germany and the czech republic. in all these cases the european union expressed solidarity and helped as much as it could. it will do so in this case as well. first of all, we are awaiting calculations of the scale of the damage and then we can decide how best to use the solidarity fund. the commission itself cannot launch solidarity fund money; this can only be done after receiving the request from the member state and after the calculation of the scale of the damage. many members raised the question of the reprogramming of the structural funds, and dg regio is discussing this. my colleague danuta hübner will visit the area soon and discuss concrete possibilities. we are in permanent contact with the civil protection department in rome to help, and also to help prepare the solidarity fund application, so there is no doubt that the commission will do whatever it can to help the victims of this disaster. concerning safe building standards, these standards exist but the question is how closely these standards are followed in member states. the standards definitely exist: they exist in directives and they exist in national legislation as well. our civil protection mechanism, at the heart of which is a monitoring and information centre working 24 hours a day, will collaborate with member states in disaster prevention and also in addressing the consequences of disasters. once more on behalf of the commission i express our condolences. we will do whatever is possible to help people in this disaster area.
at the end of the debate, i would like to take this opportunity, both in my own name and on behalf of the bureau of parliament, to express once again my sympathy and condolences to the victims and their families, and of course all possible solidarity with the people of the region who have been so badly affected. the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by søren bo søndergaard, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007, section ii, council (c6-0417/2008 2008/2277 (dec)) (a6-0150/2009).
mr president, i can assure you on behalf of the presidency that the council has been invited to attend the debate on this point. however, it is with the deepest regret of the presidency and on behalf of the whole of parliament that i must say that the council is absent. i have to say that i was surprised to see mr glinne's absence this morning when he was greeted by the president of parliament, but received no reply. i regret to say this, but i cannot do anything about it and we are therefore obliged to hold our debate anyway. i therefore give you the floor as rapporteur to introduce the debate on this report and this point.
please, you have time to answer a personal question, not to make a speech on the merits, you have already answered the personal question.
i think that was a much more serious statement than the one made by mr von wogau. the latter, in turn, requests that he intervene on a personal matter. he has the right.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the legislation on air, rail, sea and inland waterway transport by mr teychenné, with this proposal on passenger rights in bus transport, the european union completes the legislative framework for all modes of transport. in drawing up this regulation, we have had to strike a balance between two approaches: the first considers the so-called level planning field for all modes of transport, i.e. different modes of transport can compete on the same terms and with equal opportunities, and at the same time passengers have a high level of protection regardless of the means of transport they have chosen. the second approach reflects the different characteristics of each mode of transport and considers the specificities of each mode, for example the management of liability for delays, in the case of bus transport, on the road, and thus accidents, congestion and so on, compared to rail transport with a dedicated track. i would add two points of reflection and commentary which are in contrast to each other, and for which we have sought, and i believe have achieved, a balance. the real purpose of this regulation is to consolidate passenger rights, but in road transport the industrial fabric is made up mostly of small and mediumsized enterprises which will need time and resources to adapt to the new obligations and like many other industrial sectors are experiencing a difficult period of economic crisis. i would like to thank my colleagues for their important contributions to the text of the rules of procedure and for their excellent cooperation. the bulk of the work for this first reading of parliament has already been done in the committee on transport, leaving the plenary with only a few linguistic and legal clarifications. i have therefore tabled on behalf of my group only three additional amendments for tomorrow's vote, and here is a brief description: amendment no 73 is a mere linguistic clarification; amendment no 82 sets a ceiling for the system of strict liability provided for in article 6 (3) of the proposed regulation. as regards the scope of the amendment voted in the committee on transport, all the political groups agreed to include regional transport. as far as urban and suburban transport is concerned, two texts will be voted on tomorrow. as rapporteur i support amendment no 80, the exclusion of local transport, put forward by my group, but i also gave a positive indication to amendment no 81, which gives member states the option of exempting local transport provided that they guarantee passengers a level of rights similar to that provided for in the regulation. i think we have prepared a text which puts us in a good starting position for future discussions and trilogues with the council and the commission. i therefore wish the czech presidency and sweden, the next country to hold the presidency of the council of the european union, a good job on passenger rights and i hope, of course, to be able to deal with the subsequent stages of the adoption of this regulation during the next legislature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for the excellent work they have done. the report gives a very balanced explanation of the rights of passengers and of all modes of transport, including bus transport, and it addresses all the relevant issues in a very decisive way. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also been consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. in addition, all the problems relating to this type of transport have been clearly dealt with: reimbursement, compensation, information to passengers, liability for risks and complaints. i and the alde group were fully prepared to work with the rapporteur to produce a text that was as clear as possible and took account of the interests of passengers on the one hand and the needs of the companies operating and providing these services, which need technical time to comply with the regulation, on the other. i hope therefore that there will be a vote in favour of the text tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after listening carefully to the debate, and after listening to minister swoboda and commissioner tajani, but also to my colleagues, i feel i am further empowered to extend my thanks for the contribution and the valuable advice i have received here. i do not have time to go into the details of the individual proposals and the various aspects of such a wide-ranging debate, but since i have to summarize in the few seconds i have left of my time, i would use two adjectives to summarize and unify your proposals and your thoughts. you have considered, to the extent that this is possible and in such a complex regulation, that the work that has been done is reasonable. it took account of the purpose of this regulation, which is to extend the rights of passengers and extend the same conditions of protection to all modes of transport, but also of the specific nature of a number of carriers which are small and therefore have difficulty in adapting to higher obligations in a time of economic crisis. that's the aspect of reasonableness. then there is the aspect of perfectibility, of improvement, which was mentioned by colleagues who, although they consider themselves close to the context in which we have adapted, want the scope of rights to be extended further, thus to urban transport and, as regards the protection of passengers with reduced mobility, to extend them. well, this process of our approaching perfection, the perfection of human things is not finished, this regulation which is reasonable and is, i believe, well done, is perfectible. the possibility of the member states extending and completing the system to urban transport is not denied by the rapporteur, but is mandatory for regional transport, with the characteristics of its size which have already been listed and which often bring it closer to that of transnational or national routes; the same applies, of course, to the technologies used and to the areas of application for the disabled. so, as a final remark, i would like to thank you all again and wish that the work that starts today is not finished and that it can reach even better goals.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. at present, copyright is protected for a maximum of 50 years, and in my view this is not enough to give artists fair remuneration for their creative and performing work. it is important to improve the social situation of artists by giving them greater protection from the institutions. for this very reason, we are in favour of extending copyright protection for 95 years and we ask that the additional revenue resulting from this extension be attributed exclusively to artists and in particular that, for the additional 45 years, the artists be released from the contractual obligation to transfer part of the revenue to third parties. this measure must be aimed exclusively at the real benefit of performers. on the other hand, it is also good that the commission assesses the impact and the need for a procedure to extend this extension to the audiovisual sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, in the face of the great changes taking place in the musical and cultural sector in general, europe is in danger of responding with protectionist solutions and old schemes, promising crumbs to operators and small music companies, but in the end it is the interests of the big companies that will see their chances of increasing their profits considerably increased. you see, even after the swedish court sentenced the operators of the website the pirate bay, who were sanctioned for promoting the peer to peer exchange of musical material, the approval by the parliament of such a measure would consolidate a negative trend and completely inadequate to address the new dynamics of the present technological era and the need for culture, communication and freedom of entire generations. the protection of artists' freedom of expression lies precisely in their relationship with society, the freedom to produce art and the freedom to enjoy it are together and have a common adversary, the mercantile slavery of culture that is reinforced by this measure!
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed the its plan as rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee. the opinion of the regi committee, which was adopted unanimously, was largely taken up by the committee on transport in the spirit of cooperation that can be achieved on long-term issues. i thank everyone who contributed their work and their ideas. we have all tried to avoid the rhetoric that too often inflates statements of principle. we tried to make it clear that we were not discussing how many roads to plan or what roads to plan, but simply, and this is not a small thing, to plan how to move in a coordinated, safe, respectful of man and the environment and therefore intelligent way. we have tried to highlight the role of technology, security, peripheral areas, waterways and, above all, coordination with the structural funds, so that the timetables and the objectives planned are consistent and coordinated with each other. we have tried to highlight the increasing role of safety and integrated management, not only of transport but above all of the people being transported. i think we have been able to give a coherent and convincing answer. now i expect two things: the commission should not simply take note and then go in whatever direction it thinks best when it has to take operational decisions. the operational strategies set out in the plan are the basis for the choices of all other planners of related actions. too often, we have seen wonderful planes enclosed in crystal spheres, one next to the other, but impenetrable to each other. it would be disappointing if we continued to finance roads when we decided that there should be fewer cars on the road, it would be disappointing if we continued to finance vehicles designed without taking into account interconnection and passive safety, consumption, and not only fuel, but also the environment, it would be disappointing if we all planned to go on one road and the money and resources for which we are responsible ended up going to another and were spent without coordination in terms of time.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in principle, we must agree with the general objective of the directive. better information systems for travellers and road infrastructure operators, for example with the aim of reducing road accidents and making transport more efficient and cost-effective - this is of course a positive, as is the possibility of collecting environmentally relevant data. i have three main concerns. first of all: the belief in so-called intelligent technology easily leads man to abandon his responsibility to the machine and the instruments. secondly, there is a growing risk that all the data that is being collected will be misused. the privacy of the individual is increasingly at risk. thirdly, this directive is too much about the car. interoperability with other transport systems, such as public transport, would be much more important than the sophisticated gadgets that industry tries to sell us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr duchamp on his brilliant report. i have tabled an amendment on behalf of the ppe concerning article 14 (2). according to this article, in the event of traffic flow difficulties, freight trains have priority over other trains on european freight corridors. in italy and in much of europe, freight and passenger transport are carried on the same lines, as there are few dedicated freight routes. this priority would penalise regional passenger transport in the main italian hubs, for example in the city of milan which is on three ten corridors. in order to avoid that the transport of passengers suffers too much damage to the benefit of the transport of goods, i have suggested the inclusion of this amendment which excludes the application of these priority rules during peak hours of commuter transport, when the commuting of citizens is concentrated. the peak hours would be limited to a time slot on working days only of up to three hours in the morning and three hours in the late afternoon. each member state should define the peak times in accordance with its national situation, taking into account regional and long-distance freight traffic, on the basis of the indications of the infrastructure manager.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the conclusions reached today are extremely positive on this subject and help to send a very clear message to the member states that the european railway system needs corridors for freight in some way. their implementation must be coordinated and consistent at community level and all the parties concerned in the railway sector must be involved in this effort. as regards the compromise amendments proposed by the rapporteur, they provide for an improvement in the allocation and reserve process of capacity in terms of quality railway lines for international freight trains, and the creation of a reserve of capacity for short-term demands. the commission can accept this approach, and it can also accept the compromise amendment on the operation of international freight trains in the event of a disruption on the network. parliament is sovereign in all other respects. thank you.
, acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very honoured to be here with you today to take part in the debate on some of the important public health issues on your agenda. these are the application of patients' rights in the provision of cross-border care, ensuring patient safety and joint eu action on rare diseases. let me begin by saying that all three of these topics are among the priorities of the czech presidency and will also be on the agenda of the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council on 9 june 2009 in luxembourg. that is why we very much welcome the forthcoming debate. the czech presidency is fully aware of the importance of the european parliament in the legislative process in the field of public health and sees the need for close cooperation between the council and parliament. the receipt of your reports on the three subjects mentioned comes at the right time. i would now like to say a few words about the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare from the council's point of view. the czech presidency is fully aware of the need to ensure legal certainty for patients who receive healthcare in another member state and has also followed up on the work of the french presidency in this respect. our aim is to seek the adoption of such a text that is comprehensible and clear to the citizens of the european union, respects primary law, including the principle of subsidiarity, and fulfils the declared aim of establishing legal certainty for eu citizens in the exercise of their rights to cross-border healthcare. at the same time, however, due account must be taken of the possible impact of the implementation of this proposal on the stability of the health systems of the member states of the european union. given the crucial importance of the proposal, discussions in the council's working bodies are very intensive and ongoing. i am therefore not yet in a position to tell you whether the council will reach a political agreement at the end of the czech presidency, i.e. at the epsco council in june. but i will now make a few general points. the future directive should codify all the case law of the european court of justice concerning the application of the principle of free movement of goods and services in the field of public health, complement the regulation on the coordination of social systems and provide for the possibility for member states to make the receipt of healthcare in another member state conditional on prior consent or the possibility of applying a 'gate-keeping' system. these principles are also reflected in the report by mr bowis on the draft directive which you are debating. it is also possible to identify other themes that are common to the european parliament and the council: the importance of providing patients with complete and accurate information on the possibilities of receiving cross-border healthcare, or the emphasis on ensuring high quality and safety of care. the czech presidency appreciates the consistency of parliament in preparing this report, the wording of which is based on numerous difficult but fruitful discussions in several committees with substantive responsibilities. i am aware that the text of the report represents a compromise between the various political groups and that it has not been easy to achieve, and i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to its production, and in particular the rapporteur, mr john bowis, to whom we all wish a speedy recovery. this is a significant contribution to further progress in the legislative process for adopting the draft directive. the council shall examine in detail the text of the report and any adopted amendments and give careful consideration to their inclusion in the council common position in order to promote consensus at second reading. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already said, it is still too early to say whether the epsco council will reach political agreement on the draft directive in june, as the discussions based on the compromise proposal put forward by the czech presidency are not yet over. in any event, the council will continue to discuss this subject, in the light of the report adopted by the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, before i speak about patients’ rights in cross-border health care, let me pay a special tribute to the rapporteur, mr john bowis, who unfortunately is not with us today, but to whom we owe so much on this file. i wish him a speedy recovery and also health and happiness after so many years of excellent service to european citizens. (applause) i also want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work, and of course mr bushill-matthews, who is speaking today on behalf of mr bowis. yesterday, here in strasbourg, we celebrated european patients’ rights day. in doing so, we acknowledged the growing role of patients in health care and recognised the importance of patients having both confidence and knowledge about the care they receive. the central question in this context is: what can the european union do for patients? we have the opportunity this morning to take a major step forward towards building a europe for patients, for each and every european citizen that you, honourable members, represent. first, i must say that i very much appreciate the hard work undertaken by parliament on the examination of the proposal for a directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care which will shortly be submitted to your vote. let me thank and congratulate you all for your interesting and often challenging debates and for a very efficient process. allow me to recall briefly the rationale behind this proposed directive, as well as its main objectives and principles. the origin of the proposal lies in a decade of jurisprudence of the european court of justice, which ruled that patients have the right to be reimbursed for health care received abroad, even if they could have received that health care at home. this is important. this is a right that the treaty directly grants to eu citizens. however, if the rulings were clear for the individuals concerned, the question of how they apply to all other cases was obscure. therefore, the need for a legislative framework became apparent, so that all patients in europe can exercise their right to reimbursement of cross-border health care. this right should not only be for patients who have access to information that is not publicly available and who can afford a lawyer. therefore, after in-depth reflection and broad consultation, the commission adopted, on 2 july last year, its proposal for a directive. first and foremost, its overall aim is to provide patients with better opportunities and access to health care across europe. patients are at the very heart of this draft law, which also fully respects the diversity of health systems across europe. let me be clear on this. i know many fears have been expressed, but this legislation will not impose changes in the organisation and financing of national health systems. the proposed directive has three main objectives: first, to clarify the conditions under which patients will be reimbursed at the home country tariff for cross-border health care; second, to give assurance about the quality and safety of care throughout europe; and third, to foster european cooperation among health-care systems. on the basis of these three pillars, much can be done for our citizens, primarily for those who want to seek cross-border health care, but, beyond this, for all patients across europe. i look forward to your debate.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we define this directive? an opportunity for patients to choose appropriate care and quick access to services; an opportunity for regional health systems to improve the quality and effectiveness of their health service; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of services provided to the public. european reference networks, standards on technologies, development of telemedicine, will develop crossborder cooperation already under way. this requires an appropriate information system, monitoring of the quality and efficiency of health facilities, a guarantee of the professional ethics of healthcare workers, and a non-bureaucratic way of regulating cross-border mobility. the directive is a balanced response to these needs.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are adopting a very important directive, a directive which concerns patients, as has already been said, and which concerns all european citizens. on the eve of the european elections, all european citizens can once again see how parliament can have a positive impact on their lives. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union affirms the right to health care, and today we are giving this right substance with this directive. a recent eurobarometer survey highlights that 50% of european citizens are already willing to travel abroad for treatment in the hope of finding better and faster treatment for their illness, and 74% of citizens believe that if they go abroad for treatment, they will be reimbursed by their member state. currently, only national rules govern the matter, and the public is poorly informed about the possibilities, reimbursements and treatment available abroad. in fact, today only 4% of european citizens seek treatment abroad. the european union has a uniform regulation only in the case of treatment for medical emergencies which have occurred abroad on the basis of the european health insurance card regulation. today parliament is responding positively to the demand for health protection from european citizens, and europe is also preparing to break down frontiers in the field of health care and give all patients the opportunity to choose where they want to be treated!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr roth-behrendt has explained very well the position of our group, and in particular he has given a very good reason why we very much appreciate the great effort that has been made to improve this text. but he also explained very well how important the last mile is, the double legal basis and a clearer and stronger legal possibility for member states to have prior authorisation for hospital treatment. so let us not go around talking about it, we are very familiar with this directive, we have been discussing it for months. i ask two questions which are essentially political, because it is time for decisions. the first, to commissioner vassiliou: i would like to ask the commissioner what exactly it thinks about the double legal basis. secondly, i would like to address the ppe group in particular. i am sorry that my friend john bowis, with whom we have dealt with so many issues during this parliamentary term as coordinator of the main groups in the committee on the environment, is not here, and i also naturally wish him a speedy recovery. but do you think it is more useful to go to the second reading without the vote of the pse? without a large majority? i would therefore ask you to give serious thought to the double legal basis of amendments nos 116 and 125 and to the prior authorization of amendment no 156/118. if these documents are approved, we will vote in favour; otherwise it will be impossible. you can evaluate and choose which scenario you prefer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to offer my warmest wishes to mr bowis. the sunset plan of this directive is its legal basis. if it is a question of guaranteeing the right of everyone to the best possible care anywhere, what is the legal basis of the market? the right to health should be the legal basis. and the right to health should include first and foremost the right to the best possible care in one's own country, which should be given european quality standards, not hiding behind subsidiarity. but if there is a legal basis for the market, you can think of it as the bolkestein of health and look at the interests of insurance companies or those who want to make profits on health. it is therefore incredible that parliament's amendments on the key issue of the legal basis are in danger of being considered inadmissible, and this requires a necessary clarification from the commissioner before the vote in the house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are today faced with an important directive to guarantee in a substantial way the right to mobility of patients in europe, the right to health care in the countries of the union. but health care cannot be considered as the same as any other service provided in the internal market, citizens cannot be treated as patients and ordinary consumers, the right to health is based on the right to receive care and assistance starting from one's country of origin. the right to patient mobility cannot be the excuse for some member states' failure to invest in health services at national level, effectively forcing citizens to migrate for health reasons rather than to choose. the directive should better address inequalities in access to and quality of services also in countries of residence! health is not a commodity, it is a social right! the legal and prior authorization issue is a substantial form of denying the right to health!
the president-in-office of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i thank all members for their comments, suggestions and observations. i can say that the council and the european parliament agree on many things, although there are still issues that we must discuss together. mr bushill-matthews, rapporteur for mr bowis, said in his introduction that this was a difficult and sensitive subject. as mr maaten said, a compromise must be reached not only in the european parliament but also, of course, in the council. i'm pleased that the juri committee has welcomed the proposed increase in legal certainty. i also have to agree with mr braghetto that the proposal represents an opportunity for national health systems. the proposal will also increase patients' rights, as stated by ms roth-behrendt. i must, however, summarise that the directive must also be practicable and must therefore reflect the financial, legislative and organisational possibilities of the individual member states. it is also clear that the number of amendments will require some time for the council to examine them. discussions between the council and the european parliament will continue. the right balance needs to be found between the various views and proposals, but i believe that by working together we can achieve this in the end.
member of the commission. − mr president, as we have seen once again today, parliament’s debates on this matter are both rich and passionate. its discussions add a great deal to the commission’s initiative, and the amendments on which it is to vote will also constitute a most valuable input on a number of key aspects. on patients’ rights to quality and safe health care, many of you have confirmed the fundamental importance of securing clarity and assurances. i fully agree, and very much hope that this ambition will be confirmed. on the question of assumption of the costs of treatment abroad, clear concerns have been expressed about the inability of a significant number of patients to afford cross-border health care. indeed, this is an important and most valid point. inequalities of revenue clearly exist throughout europe, and this has serious consequences in relation to access to a number of fundamental services, including health care. this issue has to be addressed. however, reducing such inequalities is a difficult challenge, and even more difficult against the backdrop of the current economic crisis. it will require a significant and coordinated effort from the eu and the member states at all levels. unfortunately, what we can do in the context of the draft directive is limited. the commission proposal leaves the door open for member states to offer direct assumption of the costs of cross-border treatment, for example with a system of written confirmation of the amount that will be paid. if parliament wants this to be clear in the text, i can only welcome it. the proposed directive did not seek to prevent this, but is careful to respect member states’ responsibilities in organising health care. that is why we were cautious to limit the financial impact of cross-border health care on national health systems and sickness insurance funds. however, the two objectives are not incompatible. it would be up to the member states to reconcile them as far as possible to the benefit of the patients, in particular those with modest revenues. regarding the relationship of this directive with the social security regulation, we agree, i believe, on the need for clear articulation, which would mean that, once prior authorisation is requested by a patient, and if the conditions of the regulation are fulfilled – in other words, when there is undue delay – the regulation should apply. it has to be crystal clear that this means the tariffs of the regulation shall apply so that patients can benefit from the most advantageous system. regarding prior authorisation for hospital care, the proposed provisions are based on two kinds of consideration. firstly, case-law: the court has ruled that such a system could be justified under certain circumstances. we have codified this in article 8(3). secondly, it would not be appropriate to go beyond such provisions with a looser – or indeed unconditional – system of prior authorisation, legally or de facto generalised in all member states. we all know that patient mobility will remain a very limited phenomenon. this means that its budgetary impact will also be limited. therefore, there is no need to construct unnecessary barriers for patients. prior authorisation for hospital treatment has to remain a safeguard mechanism, applicable when justified. against this background, systems of prior notification as proposed by the rapporteur could amount to indirect – and indeed unnecessary – control of patients, impeding rather than facilitating the process. i understand that the rationale behind this suggestion was not to achieve such an outcome, but believe that this would actually restrict patients’ rights as defined by the court. such administrative mechanisms run the risk of being both cumbersome and arbitrary. i am concerned at the suggestion regarding the definition of hospital care. this definition is indeed a key point for patients’ rights as it sets the boundary for the prior authorisation system. we have proposed to define the concept of hospital care through a community list based on the shared understanding of experts, who would take account of the development of technologies. this would allow for a reasonable and modern approach to the concept of hospital care. some of you are calling for national lists to be drawn up independently, and most member states are calling for that as well. a definition based on national lists would actually lead to discrepancies as to what constitutes hospital care in each member state, with a considerable risk of eroding patients’ rights. if we were to go down this road, we would need to have such lists based on clearly defined criteria and subjected to a review process. otherwise, patients’ rights, as defined by the european judges, would be undermined. some of you have said that, if we adopt this proposed directive, only a few patients would profit from it, and that they would be the very few informed patients. on the contrary, i believe that under this directive we are giving the opportunity and the right to every single patient, before he or she leaves home, to be fully informed in order to be able to make an informed choice. i understand the concerns raised regarding the difficulty of getting clear information on health professionals when seeking health care abroad. this is simply a question of patient safety. here, we need to agree on practical solutions which also respect a number of key principles, such as the right to personal data protection and the presumption of innocence. i am sure that common ground can be found on the basis of your preliminary suggestions. reference was made to amendment 67 on relaxation of the rule for affiliations to social security systems. unfortunately, this cannot be accepted. regarding the legal basis for the proposed directive, many of you would like to add article 152 to article 95. i understand that this is an important issue for some of the political groups, but it is difficult to have definite views at this stage of the examination of the directive. it is important to assess this issue in the light of the evolution of the text, in order to decide what the appropriate legal basis is. clearly, if the content of the final text justifies it, the addition of article 152 to article 95 could certainly be considered. i remain open to considering this at any future stage of the codecision process. (applause) some of you have again raised the issue of the possible excessive inflow of patients from other member states, and of how the receiving health system would be protected. my reply is the same as the one i would give to those who fear excessive outflows in the absence of prior authorisation for hospital care, which is that the intention of this proposal is not to promote patient mobility. as i have said, mobility of patients is a limited phenomenon and we do not expect this to change. therefore, it would be simply disproportionate to give carte blanche to member states to take measures to refuse patients in order to control inflows. member states have to ensure that patients from other member states are not discriminated against. any form of control of incoming patients would have to be assessed as to whether it would amount to an acceptable exception to the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality set out in the eu treaty. regarding patients suffering from rare diseases, i understand that you are looking for the best approach in order for them to benefit from the health care they need, but sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. today, you will vote on mr trakatellis’ report, which concerns the recent strategy that the commission has already set out on rare diseases, and includes the proposed council recommendation. as you know, for these conditions, quick diagnosis and access to treatment are complex and not always possible or available at home. therefore, in order to bring the benefits of european cooperation to patients with rare diseases, they really need to be included in this directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care. i think that there is broad agreement on the need for european cooperation on centres of reference for rare diseases, for example. i would therefore urge you to keep rare diseases in the scope of the directive. regarding the proposed exclusion of organ transplantation, i simply cannot agree. transplantation is a medical procedure and it is difficult to justify why patients should not have the right to benefit from it as cross-border health care, as ruled by the court. however, the issue of organ allocation is a different matter. i have therefore asked experts in the commission to look into this question to see how organ allocation could be dealt with in a different context. today, we can take an important step forward towards the adoption of this directive. now that we are just a matter of weeks away from the next european elections, allow me to pay tribute to this parliament and to its administration for all the efforts made to make this vote today possible, for which i thank you all. let me also once again thank mr bowis and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts and hard work and wish him a speedy recovery. we hope to see him back soon to take up his duties and a normal life. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 23 april 2009, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of nosocomial infections (com (2008) 0837 - c6-0032/2009 - 2009/0003 (cns)) (a6-0239/2009) the rapporteur cannot be present and will be replaced in the initial introduction by mr grossetête.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all members for their comments, suggestions and observations. i must say that i was pleased to hear that the views of the european parliament and the council are basically the same on this issue. the council will of course carefully consider all the amendments proposed by the european parliament and, on that basis, consider their inclusion in the final draft recommendation.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate illustrates parliament’s high level of interest and concern regarding patient safety. it also sends a signal that this is an area of great potential for eu added value. for the most part, the commission welcomes the proposed amendments: for example we welcome the proposal for member states to designate competent authorities for patient safety at the various levels of state and local government administration. this reflects the fact that some member states have devolved systems of health care. we also agree that the scale and cost of data collection should not be disproportionate to the expected benefits. in relation to proposed amendments specific to health-care-associated infections, we welcome the provision for adequate protection for health-care staff. we also support the highlighting of the morbidity and mortality burden of health-care-associated infections and the need to recruit more infection-control nurses. however, i must raise some reservations and objections concerning the reduction of targets. some suggested that member states should provide the means necessary to bring about a 20% reduction in the number of persons affected by adverse events, including an overall reduction in the eu of 900 000 cases each year. the commission does not think it is appropriate to set such targets at eu level as member states are at different stages and it would be very difficult to set suitable, realistic and achievable targets that would be appropriate for them all. i have taken very careful note of what ms mcavan said about needle-stick injuries and i will think about a proposal for a special initiative. minister filipiová made a reference to the responsibility of member states in this aspect. our initiative on patient safety and health-care-associated infections fully respects the member states’ competence to finance structure and deliver health services as they see fit. the purpose of our proposal is to help member states to put in place the proper and adequate strategies to reduce or avoid adverse events in health care, including health-care-associated infections, by pooling the best available evidence and expertise in the eu and lending commission support to achieving economies of scale in this area. once this patient safety recommendation is adopted in the council, it will signal an unprecedented political commitment from member state governments to prioritise patient safety in their health-care policies. action to reduce adverse events of all types, including health-care-associated infections in all health-care settings and in all eu member states, is a goal we all share. this proposal can play a big part in achieving this goal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 23 april 2009, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by mr antonios trakatellis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council recommendation on european action in the field of rare diseases (com ((2008) 0726 - c6-0455/2008 - 2008/0218 (cns)) (a6-0231/2009)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the prevention and treatment of any disease, even if rare, requires the utmost commitment of public institutions, but the treatment and prevention cannot be at the very high cost of sacrificing the lives of some human beings, even if for the benefit of others. this would be in profound contradiction to the very soul of the european union, which is founded on the recognition of the equal dignity of a being belonging to the human family. the genetic diagnosis of embryos, which is used to select the best and healthiest embryos and kill the rest, is an unacceptable form of discrimination against man. some states allow it, but the european union cannot encourage either the laws or the behaviour that allows it. for this reason, despite my firm desire to combat all disease, i am opposed to a text whose valuable parts are in contradiction with the gravely negative content of article 4 as amended by amendment no 15.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to point out that i find mr cohn-bendit's interpretation of our rules of procedure, which refers to private and personal interests which are clearly not related to the application of the rules of this parliament, to be completely unfounded. according to that interpretation, when members voted on the new statute for members of the european parliament, which also included references to the parliamentary allowance for all members, then no member could have taken part in that vote and i therefore ask that this request be rejected as being completely unfounded.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what our coordinator jarembowski has said: decade is 12.
in writing. − today, the green group voted in favour of the casaca report on ep discharge 2007. we want to stress that with the adoption of this report in plenary, the presidium of this house should take up its responsibility and act immediately on the text adopted as far as the voluntary pension fund is concerned, and that clear decisions should be taken to the effect that under no circumstances will the voluntary pension fund be bailed out with extra money from parliament’s budget, either directly or indirectly, and that the list of participants in the fund will be made public without further delay. it should be made clear that, in so far as parliament has to guarantee the pension rights of its members, it should also have full control of the fund and its investment policies. we expect these decisions to be taken before the end of april 2009.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. the 1998 ec regulations 11/12 led to the creation of the single market for international bus transport. this liberalisation has helped to increase the steady increase in traffic volumes in the sector, which has been expanding steadily since the mid-1990s. however, this positive trend has not gone hand in hand with the protection and respect of travellers' rights: there are many inconveniences reported by travellers such as cancellations, overbookings, lost luggage and delays. unlike travellers who choose other means of transport, bus users are not yet protected because of a lack of community legislation. i therefore welcome the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism which, in the document we are about to vote on, seeks to define the rights of the individual. in particular, the proposal is of particular interest because it introduces the liability of the carrier in the event of death or injury, compensation and assistance in the event of cancellations and delays, the recognition of the rights of persons with reduced mobility or disabilities and the establishment of responsible bodies to monitor this regulation and to register complaints. an important step towards equal rights for all travellers.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. field studies have shown extensively that in europe, every year, 10-12% of users fall ill from infections contracted in hospitals, and they turn to hospital companies to put an end to their uncomfortable physical condition. these percentages, when translated into figures, are even more frightening: it is estimated that within the territory of the european union the number of patients who have contracted a nosocomial infection is approximately 5 million. i would like to refer to the intervention of my colleague, amalia sartori, who said that health safety and efficiency can be improved by drawing up a programme which takes account of the following key points: 1) strengthening the presence of highly specialised nurses in infection control; 2. implementation of training programmes for health and paramedical personnel, with particular attention to nosocomial infections and the antibiotic resistance of the viruses that cause them; (3) to take account of new discoveries arising from research in these diseases.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. managing transport according to the demands and needs of citizens is one of the key points of discussion in european union policy. the civitas programme (launched in 2002) to promote the large-scale deployment of urban transport and the white paper: in its communication 'european transport policy until 2010: the time to make choices' (issued in 2001), which proposed the creation of a more optimal urban mobility system, the commission proposed a genuine action plan to improve the quality of european transport in an entirely optimal way, by developing a gradual circuit linking the increase in mobility demand with economic growth, so as to control environmental pollution in a very effective way, while at the same time safeguarding europe's productive system. the commission is therefore taking note of the situation and is working to ensure that all community citizens have access to a transport network which is both efficient and extremely safe. there are five points on which we must concentrate our attention: (1) the protection of passengers' rights and obligations; (2) improving road safety; (3) promotion of safety; (4) limitation of road transport to curb congestion in land transport.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. i am voting in favour of the jensen report which provides a comprehensive policy framework and sets out the actions needed for a coordinated deployment of intelligent transport systems (its) at community level. road congestion, increased co2 emissions and road fatalities are just some of the major challenges facing community transport and i believe that its is a key tool to make transport more efficient, safe, clean and environmentally friendly, contributing to the development of sustainable mobility for citizens and the economy. i agree that its can improve the living conditions of european citizens and contribute to improving road safety and reducing emissions of substances that alter the climate and are harmful to human health. i strongly believe that intelligent transport systems increase the efficiency of traffic and consequently reduce traffic. although different applications have been developed or introduced for different modes of transport (rail, sea and air), there is no coherent regulatory framework at community level for road transport.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my third report on the application of community law and i have to say that, in view of the great work we have done together with the commission, i do not think we can say that we are particularly satisfied. i think there are three main problems which i would like to mention and which are brought to your attention, and especially to the attention of the commission in our report. i see a tendency on the part of the commission to pay less attention to what parliament is doing and asking for, since, unlike in the past, we have received virtually no answers to the questions we have asked in the course of the last two reports. and i have to say that this causes me some frustration, because on the subject of the application of community law we all agreed that this was a priority on the better regulation agenda, better regulation. what are the problems we have found? the three fundamental issues we discussed with the commission were those of transparency, resources and the length of procedures. we see that, compared with the innovation we had defined together, namely transparency, progress has been rather slow and even with the new regulations on access to documents, the possibility for those who are conducting infringement proceedings, who are asking to open infringement proceedings, to know why they are closed or why they are open, is absolutely diminishing. secondly, the question of setting priorities: the definition of priorities, compliance and the implementation of infringement procedures must of course entail decisions which are not only technical but also political, and here, unfortunately, after three or four years of working on this, we still have a problem of control and the transparency mechanism, not only internally with regard to the commission but also externally. i would like to give a couple of examples, particularly as regards community environmental law. we know that this is the main problem of the application of european law, and yet both in terms of resources and in terms of the priority given to this area, we are still quite behind. one of the most interesting and most positive topics discussed with the commission was the reduction of the time taken by the procedure, through a series of mechanisms which had been proposed and partly agreed with the commission. but we are also stuck with a certain inertia which i hope will be resolved in the future. the commission has also been discussing the so-called pilot project for a long time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. the assessment that some member states have given, in particular our commissioner tajani, of the operation of this pilot project is relatively unsatisfactory, because the fact that the commission no longer writes directly to those who have been affected by this possible infringement greatly reduces the capacity of the administration guilty, let us say, of this alleged infringement, to be unmotivated to respond. and so it is that if a department of an italian ministry writes to a region, it will certainly be less effective than a letter coming directly from the commission. and this kind of criticism that has been made of the pilot project has unfortunately not been met with much response from the commission. i reserve the right, mr president, to return to the second part of the debate to respond to the remarks which vice-president tajani will no doubt make.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, mr president, it is very interesting that the commissioner has chosen the one resolution which i, as rapporteur, do not like the most, but i do take all the things he has said and the commitments he has made on behalf of the commission seriously. i would also like to take this opportunity to point out some problems which i hope the commission will be able to tackle: the first is a gradual reduction in the autonomy of the dgs, the directorates-general, which are subject to the combined arrangement between a legal service which is increasingly reluctant to go to the court and a general secretariat which is increasingly reluctant to stimulate the member states. then there is the real problem of ineffective monitoring of the application of community law due to lack of resources: in a directive which we have studied very carefully, namely directive 38, there were 1500 complaints, the directive on the free movement of citizens, there were 1500 complaints from citizens and only 19 open infringements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and clearly, when you put into the pilot such issues as pollution that has already been established, hunting regulations that are obviously and openly in conflict with community rules, you cannot expect the member states to act because that only serves to further delay the procedure. finally, mr president, there is a problem which i consider to be a concern and which is relatively new, namely the combination of the increasingly extreme formality of the commission's replies and the increasingly arbitrary nature of the decision. recently, an offence was closed for political opportunity and i refer to mose. it is clear that when the category 'political opportunity' enters into a control which must be above all legal, things can be complicated. finally, as regards our institution, parliament, we have a very serious problem because the reforms which we are about to discuss and vote on in may are supposed to greatly reduce the powers of the committee on petitions, and this is a very serious mistake, because a reduction in the power of petitions means a reduction in the power of citizens to denounce and deal with infringements of community law.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we as the international community are certainly playing a very large part in our credibility with regard to what is happening in afghanistan. the leader of my party, emma bonino, was arrested by the taliban precisely because of her presence as european commissioner and held for a few hours precisely because of her presence in defence of women's rights. we cannot allow - despite the divisions and assessments regarding armed intervention and regardless of the positions that have been taken - that the situation for women's rights deteriorates in this way. we did as a radical nonviolent party, we organized a satyagraha, a worldwide nonviolent action for the presence of women among the ministers in the government in afghanistan six years ago, today what is needed is a new mobilization of the international community so that not only are women's rights guaranteed, but they are fully included at the top of political and institutional life. it is clear that we must condition all our cooperation with the afghan government on the prudence and caution that have been called for, but also on the utmost firmness, because it would be an illusion to think that a kind of realpolitik vis-à-vis the fundamentalist parties can guarantee peace in the long term in afghanistan, but also in our cities and our countries.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a so-called camp, a real small town of people who, following a difficult political decision, have surrendered their arms, people who have in fact entrusted their defence to the international community. the reason why we are discussing this matter today as a matter of urgency is because of the risk that these people will be deported en masse and that their rights vis-à-vis the iranian regime will be permanently violated. so, of course, the degree, the degree of democracy of the people's mujahideen, of their organisation, can be questioned, but i fear that is not the debate we have to have, that is not the reason for the urgency we have asked for! the reason for the urgency we have asked for is to prevent this small town from being violated en masse, from being stripped of its fundamental right, and from being handed over to the iranian dictatorship. the amendments which have been proposed simply risk confusing the brutal urgency and necessity of this message and that is why i hope they will not be adopted.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to make a point of contacting you because these cross-border payments are of great benefit and show that the european union is very conscious of being close to the citizen by providing a positive solution and removing further obstacles and finding arrangements that will make his daily life easier. i am deeply convinced and therefore also positive about this report that we have made a significant step forward in facilitating activities within the european union. i hope this example will serve as a lesson in other areas.
in writing. - mr president, i shall vote in favour of this report. in recent decades, the trend towards a rights-based approach to the problem of persons with disabilities has matured and become widely established at international level. respect for the rights of the disabled has always been one of the key issues in european social policy and in this sense the un convention on human rights is a step forward along this path. the principles of the convention are respect for dignity, autonomy, freedom of choice, independence, non-discrimination, social inclusion, respect for differences, equal opportunities, accessibility and equality between men and women. articles 24, 27 and 28 on education, employment and social protection are particularly important in promoting social inclusion. i hope therefore that the convention will pass with the maximum number of votes and that all the member states will ratify the measure as soon as possible.
in writing. - mr president, i shall vote in favour of this report. one of the obligations of any state governed by the rule of law is that prevention activities at the level of civil security must be carried out not on the basis of a person's ethnic identity but in relation to the conduct of that person. ethically speaking, no subject can and should be detained in any way unless there are acts which accuse or make him guilty. to combat the problems of immigration and terrorism, the so-called "profile definitions" have been developed: this method is defined by police organizations and is capable of identifying in advance associations of persons considered to be potential perpetrators of terrorist and criminal acts. one of the most effective methods of "profiling" is called "data mining", and it consists of searching, through computerized databases, for people through pre-established indices based on race, ethnicity, religion and nationality. our task will be to regulate the 'profiling' by means of legal parameters which are careful to guarantee the rights of every man, regardless of his race or religion.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 focuses on cross-border transfers and cross-border electronic payment transactions. this regulation was adopted on 19 december 2001 and aims to ensure that the cost of a crossborder payment is the same as that of a payment made within a member state. until 1 january 2006, it applied only to transfers, withdrawals from atms and payments made by debit and credit card up to an amount of eur 12 500 in eu countries, whereas from that date, it can be made up to an amount of eur 50 000. this change has led to lower prices and increased competition in the payment services markets. however, regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 also has limitations, such as the lack of definition of 'corresponding payments' and the lack of the review clause, which should be addressed immediately. we conclude by saying that we support the proposals to update and amend regulation (ec) no 2560/2001, as it is our duty to make cross-border payment transactions easier and cheaper.
in writing. the western balkans region has been the scene of europe's bloodiest massacres for years. the prospect of eu membership would be the main guarantee of stability and reformism today. some steps still need to be taken: we recall that the neighbourhood and cooperation policies are at the heart of the process of moving towards eu membership and that in the western balkans region certain bilateral issues between the various states, both eu and non-eu, are still pending. however, the eu's influence and capacity to act as a mediator, supporting the reforms under way in the balkans, will allow those states that fully meet the copenhagen requirements to join the eu fully. in order to promote greater integration, especially among young people, we are committed to supporting an increase in funding and the number of scholarships available in the eu for students and researchers from the western balkans under the erasmus mundus programme. this will not only provide many young people with an additional opportunity for training, but will also enable them to meet other young people of their age in the community and to feel that they are fully-fledged citizens of europe, each with their own identity but united in diversity.
in writing. - committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights thank you, mr president. i am voting in favour of the frassoni report which recalls the fundamental roles which the european parliament, national parliaments and national courts have to play in the application of community law. i agree that i should remind the commission of the possibility of a system that clearly indicates the different complaint mechanisms available to citizens, which could take the form of a common eu portal or a single online point of contact for citizens. citizens must have the same level of transparency, whether they are filing a formal complaint or exercising their right to petition under the treaty; clear information on the state of play of infringement procedures, which also has relevance for pending petitions, must therefore be made available to the committee on petitions. signatories must be fully informed of the progress of their complaints at the end of each predefined deadline. there should be summary texts for the public and these summaries should be made accessible through a single point of access. moreover, these texts must not disappear once the legislative procedure has been completed, precisely at the moment when they are becoming more relevant for citizens and businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been here for 30 years as you have, but perhaps the balance sheet we can draw from these 30 years is not what we hoped for when we made a qualitative leap in this parliament in 1985 against an old and failed europe of the home countries to march towards the united states of europe. today we are once again facing that ominous past - the europe of the homelands but not the european homeland - and within our fence, the peoples around us who greeted us as a great hope, as an opportunity to seize, in reality as peoples who will vote with ill will shortly, will once again condemn the fact that we are representing, with a metamorphosis of evil, mr president, the evil against which we had risen and were under the illusion of winning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to reiterate on a personal note that, contrary to what you have said, and what you have consistently done throughout this parliament, i have been re-elected every time in the past thirty years. it so happened that, in the spirit of teamwork within the radical party, and having given the voters advance notice, i gave up my seat to other comrades like olivier dupuis, who have testified here in favour of parliament and the other. so your statement is incorrect, i repeat: for thirty years, always. unfortunately, mr president, this time i have had to witness - you were present at the time of otto of habsburg and altiero spinelli, who proposed that this parliament should oppose the council's demands, even by striking its opinions - well, mr president, this time i have witnessed with you this parliament which has agreed to behave like a 'taxi-parliament' when it wanted to impose on us - and you imposed them on us - non-parliamentary deadlines in connection with the failed lisbon project.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs estrel and mrs lulling for their report. i appreciate their efforts and the support that the european parliament has given to the commission's proposals, which form part of the work-life balance package adopted last autumn. achieving a balance between work, family and private life is, as you know, one of the priorities of the commission's gender equality plan. strengthening policies addressing this issue is essential to increase women's participation in the labour market, to address the challenges of changing family structures and population ageing, and to promote equal treatment for men and women. in this context, i believe that it is necessary to improve the legislation on maternity and parental leave. it is also of the utmost importance to improve the situation of self-employed women. i am very pleased with the progress made on both commission legislative proposals. i am also pleased that the negotiations between the social partners on parental leave were successful. i hope to be able to present a formal proposal before the summer holidays to make their agreement binding. let me briefly recall the objectives of the commission's proposal to amend the maternity leave directive: to promote a high level of maternal health and safety protection, to encourage women to have as many children as they want and, at the same time, to promote women's participation in the labour market. in this respect, the commission proposal seeks in particular to extend maternity leave from 14 to 18 weeks, to increase the maternity allowance so that women can take time off work to care for their children and feel financially secure, to give women more flexibility in the arrangements for maternity leave and the working conditions for re-entry into employment. i am aware of the difficulties in striking the right balance between increasing protection and making these additional measures economically acceptable to employers and member states. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes the many amendments tabled by the european parliament which help to strengthen or clarify the proposal. these include: amendment 11 on demographic trends, amendment 25 stressing the need for better reconciliation of work and family life, amendment 50 on support for member states in promoting part-time work, amendment 35 on the optional maternity leave before childbirth and amendment 53 clarifying that women on maternity leave may be paid a higher salary, and amendment 56 on workers' pension rights. the commission is also prepared to accept a number of other amendments, either in principle or in full, and i welcome the amendment which would allow, under certain conditions, parental leave to be counted as maternity leave. such provisions would take into account differences between member states and would favour those member states with developed family leave systems, such as the nordic countries. however, i would like to avoid a situation where the revision of directive 92/85/eec is used to introduce topics that should be addressed in another context. in my view, this would undermine the objectives of the commission's proposal, which are firstly to increase the protection of mothers and secondly to promote women's participation in the labour market. therefore, while i fully support your proposal to introduce a paternity leave provision i do not think that the current directive aimed at protecting mothers is the appropriate instrument for this. the commission would therefore reject the amendments relating to paternity leave. nevertheless, the commission considers it appropriate to address this issue in the future, also in the light of the final text of the agreement between the european social partners on parental leave. i was also pleased to note parliament's request to introduce leave for adoption of a child (amendment 44). the idea is correct, but i think that a revision of directive 92/85/eec is not the right way to go. we have to recognize that the situation of the mother who adopts a child is different. however, as with paternity leave, the commission considers it appropriate to address this issue at a later stage, in particular in the context of parental leave. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes your proposal for 20 weeks of maternity leave. this is in line with the logic of the commission proposal, which allows for more than 18 weeks of leave in a number of different cases. however, the impact of this extension should be reflected in the other provisions of the commission's proposal: as regards breastfeeding, a woman on 18 weeks' maternity leave would have sufficient time to breastfeed her child and not have to adjust her working hours to this. in those circumstances, i would not be in favour of introducing a legal obligation to regulate the working hours of breastfeeding women. instead, i would urge member states to consider whether additional measures are needed to allow women to continue breastfeeding after 18 weeks of maternity leave. similarly, in the case of maternity allowance, the commission proposal introduces the principle of full pay. in fact, many member states already apply this principle. the commission proposal also allows member states to set a maximum level for this contribution. the commission is not in favour of parliament's proposal to pay full salary for a certain period and to introduce a maximum for the remainder of maternity leave, as this would discourage mothers from taking full maternity leave. the commission therefore does not recommend the amendments concerned. the commission also considers that some of the proposed amendments either weaken the effects of the proposal, introduce too many details or go beyond the scope of this directive. this is the case, for example, with amendment no 30 concerning the right to refuse night work. i believe that a pregnant or breastfeeding woman should be able to refuse to work at night at any time without having to give a reason. the same applies to the question of sanctions. in this respect, the commission considers it important to specify that the compensation cannot be limited by any national ceiling. this important principle has been established by the european court of justice. the commission cannot therefore accept amendment no 68. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would now like to deal in more detail with mrs lulling's report. first of all, i would like to emphasize the importance which the commission attaches to this proposal. improving the situation of equal treatment for self-employed men and women is essential, as women are underrepresented in this field: only one in three entrepreneurs in the eu is a woman. the situation of the assisting spouses also needs to be improved. it cannot be accepted that persons who are regularly involved in the activities of a family business are not covered by any social protection. i am pleased to see that the european parliament and the commission are largely in agreement. the commission can therefore accept (in full or in principle) the substantial majority of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. this is particularly the case with amendment no 15 on maternity leave for self-employed women. the same applies to amendment no 18, which aims to re-introduce article 7 of directive 86/613/eec on the recognition of the work of assisting spouses. the commission has also proposed a large number of amendments which it can accept in full or in principle. these amendments generally clarify the commission proposal and thus seek greater legal certainty. i would point out, however, that the commission cannot accept amendment no 14 concerning social protection for assisting spouses. i understand that this is an important aspect for the european parliament. however, this amendment raises certain problems. in particular, the voluntary approach introduced in the commission proposal represents a substantial improvement compared to the current situation. the commission proposal imposes a legal obligation on member states to ensure that assisting spouses enjoy, on request, a level of protection equivalent to that enjoyed by selfemployed persons. the compulsory inclusion of assisting spouses in the social protection system would also have significant financial implications. in times of economic crisis, it is important to ensure that businesses, and in particular small family businesses, do not incur additional costs against their will. so i think we should give the assistant husbands or wives a choice. and this amendment would make it very difficult to reach an agreement with the council. in conclusion, i would like to say that the commission's position on the individual amendments to both legislative proposals has been transmitted to parliament in writing and will be added to the minutes of the plenary session.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say at once, to save time, that i agree in substance with the illustration given by mrs lulling, who was the rapporteur for the main committee on this report. this is 'equal treatment for men and women engaged in selfemployed activities'. there are some amendments which were adopted in the committee and which i, on behalf of my group, have proposed again, some of which i think can be withdrawn because they overlap with texts already adopted in the main committee. we too will insist on the amendment to article 6 on 14 because we believe that making optional for the spouse or the assistant cohabitant what is obligatory for the main worker is a reduction in protection and exposes to conditions which defeat the very objectives of the commission. i think we will also find agreement with mr lulling on the rest, because we were aiming at the fact that the reference to 'cohabiting partners' should be repeated along with that to the spouse in every passage of the commission's text, rather than being left solely to the interpretation. but frankly, this is a secondary problem to the will of everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the breakdown of the time directive was inevitable. the council has maintained a provocative stance, as we heard in the house earlier, by ignoring parliament's vote, which was repeated on second reading years after the first. and it is with that vote that we are standing before the electorate - i mean mrs lynne - because we have precisely the mandate of the electorate. what concerns me is the merit of this extremism. the council wants to maintain both the opt-out and the cancellation of the timetable. it is frankly difficult to understand what idea of work, of its conditions - the 78 hours, i mean the commissioner and the council, come with the postponement of the rest periods provided for by the text which the council defended and which are therefore a deterioration compared to the old directive - but also what idea of the trade union, of contracts there is in the council. if we continue with the logic of opt-outs, if we do not work towards harmonizing working conditions, we are not working for europe, but against it, that is to say, we are creating conditions which are leading to the degeneration of europe's social fabric and which do not allow europe to deal with the real causes of the crisis in which it finds itself. the responsibility for the breakdown is therefore clear and all attributable to the council. parliament has done its duty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the global uproar and all the measures against the swine flu now and a few years ago against bird flu and bse - all of this is nothing compared to the frivolity in dealing with the much higher number of deaths on the road. the 40 000 people who die each year on the roads of the eu alone, as well as the countless injured and permanently disabled, are often taken for granted as if they were a force majeure. everyone knows that in more serious road accidents, there are disproportionately many trucks involved. the main causes are speed, fatigue and alcohol. the aim of this directive is to combat the over-fatigue of drivers. not only the journey times themselves, which are checked by the tachograph, but also the loading and unloading times are now to be considered as working time for everyone. that's good and right. because if you've worked for hours before you get behind the wheel of a forty-ton truck, you're already tired and unfocused. it is quite incomprehensible that this regulation should concern only the wage-earners, the non-independent drivers. the only excuse is that the working hours of an entrepreneur are more difficult to control. i did. but is it less risky for an entrepreneur to drive when he is overtired?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 may 2009.
the next item is the report by mr vladimír maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2010 (2009/2006 ((bud)) (a6-0275/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 may 2009.
the agenda includes the report by diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on trade in seal products (com (2008) 0469 - c6-0295/2008 - 2008/0160 (cod)) (a6-0118/2009).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 may 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes (com (2008) 0543 - c6-0391/2008 - 2008/0211 (cod)) (a6-0240/2009).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the internet must remain open. the communications industry, by managing the transmission of data, effectively controls democratic debate, access to knowledge, in effect controls access to trade and more generally controls the dissemination of information. under the provisions of the telecom package, as currently negotiated, network operators will have the ability to block access to websites, content, applications and more. for this reason, in a recent question i raised the danger that a restriction on the freedoms of the press, thought, speech and association, which are also guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the union, is behind the door when a national government, as was about to happen in italy, or the media industry can take responsibility for blocking a web page at its discretion, regardless of whether the content is illegal or not. the latter is mainly the fact that it screams: the possibility of obfuscation even if there is no crime in being, in proud, or instigated. it is certainly appropriate to safeguard the national role in the management of radio spectrum, because the specificities of national systems must be guaranteed and taken into account, but the compromise text we approved in april contains some positive elements in terms of consumer protection and more generally privacy, the fight against spam and so on. i am convinced, however, that amendment no 138 is entirely acceptable and that it is therefore appropriate to ... (the president withdrew the floor).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i voted in favour of the report despite the fact that our two amendments were not accepted. i think it would have been very appropriate to provide for and contribute to the inuit being able to have peace and quiet as regards their way of life, their way of living, their way of hunting and also greater respect for the leader programmes of the european union itself for the scandinavian countries as regards seal hunting. and then i would like to take this opportunity to say that what is happening in canada outside the inuit is not hunting as we understand it, but it is the slaughter of animals, not hunting in the true sense, so i think the two things have to be separated, however they are positioned, and i think this issue could have been better dealt with in a post- and not pre-election period like this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the wallis report is a step forward in the general defence of animal rights by significantly restricting the importation of seal products into the union. the union has made a choice of civilization in this area and we hope that other countries will follow suit, even if we would have preferred the commission's text to be the one presented on the internal market, which very clearly limited the possible exceptions to the marketing of these products only to the subsistence needs of the inuit populations, while new exceptions may open, if not adequately controlled by the customs authorities at the border, dangerous loopholes to circumvent this measure which sanctions, after a long battle, the uselessness and cruelty of certain human practices that no longer have the right to offend our consciences. i hope that today's step will not be an isolated one, that we can even consider more forcefully to prevent products from animals that have been killed with incredible suffering from being imported into our country. i would also remind you of the great folly of continuing to argue that in europe meat animals can be slaughtered without any stunning, and left to bleed to death.
thank you, mrs. heaton-harris, if you're in the next legislature, you'll help us to improve.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1234/2007, poultry meat may be sold on the international market even if it has undergone antimicrobial treatments. in june 2008, after several attempts, the european parliament succeeded in passing a resolution banning this type of marketing. the commission has not complied with the resolution, as the us only exports poultrymeat to the eu that has been treated with chemicals or antimicrobials. this strategy is at odds with the investments made by poultry professionals in their field and made in accordance with community legislation, which requires that, in order to reduce the risks of contamination of meat, only eu-approved protection methods, such as cold treatment, should be used. we therefore support the following amendments to regulation (ec) no 1234/2007: 1) withdrawal of recital 5 of the commission's preamble, which states that 'the exclusive reference to cold treatment in the definition of 'poultrymeat' is too restrictive in relation to technological developments'. that definition should therefore be adapted; 2) replacement of recital 5 by a new recital which provides for the monitoring of the origin of meat in order to inform and ensure transparency for the consumer; (3) maintenance of the 'cold method' protection treatment only.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. until now, the guardian of the protection of animals used for scientific purposes has been directive 86/609/eec: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. however, a proposal to amend this directive should be made to ensure both a complete uniformity of intent within the european territory and greater protection of laboratory guinea pigs used for scientific purposes concerning human and animal health. there are many changes that should be made, but the most important ones, which we hope will be in line with the commission's ideals, are: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare legislation is applied in the member states. (2) the extension of the concept of guinea pig to various species of invertebrates and foetal forms in the last trimester of development, or to larvae and other animals used in basic research and training; (3) the use of animals only in experiments for which they have been bred; (4) the study of alternative methods to animal testing, minimizing the number of animals used; (5) ensuring that the member states should have as their primary aim the improvement of farming methods, minimizing animal suffering; 5) the use of total or partial anaesthesia.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. when it comes to energy consumption policies, the eu should take as a guiding model for its choices the statements made by the well-known british economist nicholas stern: in times of recession and high oil prices, additional incentives for investment in energy efficiency and spending on renewable energy and other low-carbon sectors can help stimulate the economy. what is needed is an energy policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, upholds the commitments made under the kyoto protocol and supports the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change. the implementation of this protocol would make a very important contribution both to employment and to competitiveness in the economic and social fields. the current directive on energy labelling 92/75/eec, although welcomed by industry and consumer associations, cannot be considered to be in step with technological developments and innovation on the energy market, since this deadlock in all european territories would first have to be eliminated in order to enable consumers to enjoy a new dimension of life.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow you will decide whether or not to approve the lisbon treaty. we naturally hope that you will remove us from this thorny situation. that said, we can only say that the situation we find ourselves in today demonstrates once again the total inadequacy of the procedure for reforming the treaties. this unanimity procedure is a mistake, this parliament made it a point of contention back in 1984 and proposed that the treaties, together with altiero spinelli, should be ratified by a majority and that those who did not wish to ratify them should be accompanied to exit with an agreement on how to proceed. we believe that this would have been a constitutional reform appropriate for our times and i fear that this parliament has really missed the opportunity to be the driving force of integration and the driving force of positive treaty reform in this parliament by conforming to this bad procedure. the president also stressed that the next european council will take place after the elections - that is true - and he also said, as many of us have repeated, that this european council will have to appoint the new president of the commission. we do not think that this is necessary, especially if there is no clarity on what will happen with the treaty and we think that either the whole commission, including its president, should be appointed in accordance with the treaty of nice, or the president and the commission should also be appointed in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. i think that to do so would be a mistake, a fraud on the electorate and on the citizens, because it would further demonstrate that this institution is simply a front for the interests of the member states and governments. mr swoboda, you have attacked president barroso a little, slightly, for his policies, but i would like to say to you what our group has been saying for some time now: if we want to prevent president barroso's policies from becoming a majority in this parliament again, we must not only win the elections, but we must also put forward another candidate, which his group refuses to do. and so, of course, president barroso is absolutely alone in this campaign, and i think that this is a very serious mistake for which i hold his group particularly responsible, because the problem is not poor mccreevy, but the approach of this whole legislature, the undertakings of social democrats like mr verheugen and other things that we have not appreciated together with you in this legislature. two things i want to say very quickly about the question of the european union's leadership, or supposed leadership, on climate change. one thing is very clear: the european council did not want to put the money on the table. so, today, we have no deal, because it is clear that even if the united states were to come with us, if we do not offer an economic deal, 100 billion euros, for the countries that have to take the measures of adaptation and mitigation on climate change, we in copenhagen will have no agreement, and since we are the ones who give so much air of being leaders, if we cannot put this money and these measures on the plate, we will not be able to have a deal and the europeans will be the main ones responsible. on the question of the financial market crisis, i would say that we are a little incoherent, because on the one hand we say that we must absolutely manage them, we must limit them, we must regulate them, but on the other hand, when we propose to caricom, for example, to make an agreement on this matter, what are we proposing? the total liberalization of current accounts for all residents, capital accounts for investors, virtually unlimited activities without rules for financial services and so, on the issue of financial services, as well as on climate change, we adopt rules which we then fail to enforce internally and in our external relations. i believe that consistency is the real problem facing the european union today.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for an opinion i should like to speak in particular on the amendments to the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, and to express my appreciation for the commission's proposal for the agreement reached with parliament at first reading. i think it is particularly positive: one, temporarily extended the use of the egf to make it an instrument of the european recovery plan to respond to the global financial and economic crisis, in support of workers who have lost their jobs; two, to reduce from 1000 to 500 the minimum number of redundancies to be eligible for support from the fund; the commission has also taken the initiative of increasing the eu co-financing rate to 65% for this phase in specific cases. finally, i hope that, as envisaged in the opinion of the committee on regional development, the commission will present an assessment of the effects of the temporary measures by the end of 2011 and give parliament the opportunity, if necessary, to review the legislation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon agenda envisaged a house of europe based on three pillars: economic, social and ecological. we have often criticised the overvaluation of the first pillar - the economy - compared with the other two. the social pillar is being substantially strengthened by the social agenda. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr silva peneda, and the majority in the committee on employment. we now have a document which is much better than the commission's original vague proposal. we greens have also contributed to a concrete improvement in the core social policy statements by putting forward more than 40 amendments in the committee on employment and social affairs. social policy is more! it cannot be just a few general demands for more jobs. there is a need for more equity in the distribution of goods, a committed fight against poverty, effective gender equality, social integration rather than exclusion, international solidarity, structural change, the respect of fundamental rights and human rights - including those of immigrants - , health and the environment, in order to improve working and living conditions, and finally clear eu guidelines that cannot be undermined by the ecj. the report contains a lot of information, and it will be adopted in the last week of this parliament's session. it is only to be hoped that the council and the commission will take these demands seriously. only then can we build a europe of social solidarity, a europe that eu citizens expect and welcome!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall concentrate on the globalisation adjustment fund. the debate on this fund is taking place in the midst of a very strong and dramatic economic and social crisis, as my colleagues have also said. it is therefore good that the fund can be used more directly for social security, as we are deciding, but there is a need for a more thorough discussion of its role and the context of the instruments needed to deal with the crisis. firstly, we should not multiply the emergency, and therefore, for example, we should establish that those who receive public money from europe are obliged not to lay off workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's also about our country and our relationship with america and germany. it is therefore industrial and environmental policies, but also cohesion policies, which put an end to dumping within europe. thirdly: the resources are far from adequate, even in comparison with those put in place by the us government, for example. so we do not need buffers, but a radical change in policy.
we'll have a lot of misery and we'll be close.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 may 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
author of the book. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, wine is not simply an agricultural product for us, but also a cultural and traditional product. we have heard many times in this house that the future of the european wine market must be assured. this can only be achieved by focusing on quality, and there can be no quality without respect for traditional production methods. we cannot therefore, madam commissioner, but oppose the introduction of new, fanciful oenological practices which do not derive from oenological science, because we believe that this can damage the image of wine and undermine the relationship of trust between consumer and product, with serious consequences for quality and perhaps for health. european quality products are so because they are based on respect for the ingredients, on artisanal workmanship, on tradition, on typical flavours obtained from specific products and production methods. i am afraid that, concession by concession, by upsetting our traditional oenological practices, the union will allow the possibility of inserting pieces of wood in the barrels to accelerate the flavour of the taste and then it will become artificial flavouring, until it comes to the addition of water and the possibility of making wine without the grapes. this is not, madam commissioner, the right direction for the revival and development of the internal and international market. the global demand for rosé wine is not decreasing but increasing, and the right approach is not to produce more with the enological practices of a small alchemist, but to invest in the quality, the specialty and the characterization of european wines, in the marketing and in general in the promotion of real wine, in order to expand the market and finally give young people more access to the wine-making business.
member of the commission. − madam president, the world of rosé wine has a long, long history, but there is no definition of rosé wine within eu legislation or within the international organisation of vine and wine (oiv). they all remain silent. in certain regions, wine-makers have invested a lot of effort to develop a high-quality rosé wine based on a precise product specification, and have limited the wine-making practices for rosé wine to traditional methods. however, other protected designations of origin (pdos) do not impose restrictions on making rosé wine. the product specification of champagne allows the blending of red and white to produce rosé champagne. at eu level, the ban on blending red and white wine is today limited to the production of table wine. the discussion on wine-making practices, including on blending, started back in 2006 during the negotiations on the wine reform. with the reform, the commission gained competence to authorise new oenological practices and shall base itself on the oiv’s recommendations. following wide-ranging discussions which took place last autumn with stakeholders and with all member states, the commission proposed the abolition of the ban on blending red and white wine. this was subject to an indicative vote in the wine regulatory committee in january when a majority of member states, including france, voted in favour. the draft regulation has been notified to the world trade organisation under the procedure in the agreement on technical barriers to trade, and we have recently accepted further time for third countries to examine our proposal. therefore, the regulation will be formally voted by the wine regulatory committee later in june, most probably on 19 june, because further delay would prevent us from implementing the new oenological practices from 1 august this year, as foreseen by the council regulation. you also asked for a specific impact assessment before the removal of the blending prohibition. in-depth impact assessments were carried out by the commission’s services when drafting the wine reform and we do not therefore intend to restart the work undertaken in 2006 and 2007 to prepare the wine reform, nor to make an in-depth impact assessment of all different individual wine-making practices, so we base ourselves on the work that is taking place in the oiv. already now, economists in the wine sector stress that this reform will not weaken traditional rosés as these rosés with an appellation are not in competition with table wines. it is clear that the traditional rosé is a quality product that is highly appreciated by consumers and associated with the place of origin of this product. allowing the blending of table wine will lead to fair competition between european countries and third countries since we have allowed third countries – as already mentioned here today – to do this blending. i completely agree with mrs laperrouze. why should we put our wine producers in a worse competitive situation than those that can sell wine within the european union? some weeks ago, i had a meeting here in strasbourg with rosé wine producers from provence in france and we had a very open and frank discussion on the state of play. of course i understand their attempt to try to safeguard the traditional rosé and that is the reason why the commission has been looking at various solutions on the labelling issue. we actually proposed two different labelling options: ‘traditional rosé’ and ‘rosé by blending’. member states can then decide whether they want to make either one or both of those labelling options compulsory for rosé wine produced in their territory. in this way, we provide the possibility for producers to get a more exact idea of what they are buying. i heard the argument from those wine producers that ‘traditional rosé’ was a bit dusty and they consider rosé wine to be a modern way of producing wine. i clearly indicated that if other ideas came up, i would of course be prepared to listen to them, but i have not yet heard any suggestions on an alternative to rosé wine. as the commissioner for agricultural products, i do care that we find the right solutions and give our wine producers a level playing field.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in this chamber to defend a food, cultural and rural heritage which has a centuries-old tradition, a priceless heritage which the world envies us for, and which represents an enormous wealth for the economy and also for the identity of our union. this heritage is now in danger of being seriously affected by the commission and council's desire to abolish the ban on coupage for the production of rosé wines, a desire which was born under strong pressure and which will be ratified without the possibility of parliament's intervention, the body which officially represents the millions of citizens, both producers and consumers, who will be affected by this initiative. the commission proposes to allow rosé wines to be made simply by mixing red and white wines, as is done in countries which do not have our expertise and professionalism, under the simple pretext of responding to international competition. as a co-signer of the question, i would stress that lowering the quality of our products, the result of centuries of tradition and research, of very important investments, of passion and attention to detail, is not the answer we need, especially at a time of economic crisis such as this, when the average consumer is certainly more concerned with the price than with a label. to counterbalance this decision, it would be enough to find a name for the new product and inform consumers of the existence of two different types of rosé, of the different quality of the products, of the importance of recognizing the work and efforts of professionals in the sector. who's gonna pay for all this? does the commission envisage any support programmes in this respect or will producers still have to pay for this, after having asked them to fight low-cost competition with equal arms in already very difficult times? i hope that the commission and the council will make the right choice and, if necessary, completely revise this procedure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i must say that i agree with what mr grossetête said because i came here with the intention of bringing the pain, the regret, the discontent of the wine-producing world to italy and i found myself facing a wall, facing indifference, i hope perhaps because of the coldness of the translation, but from what i have heard i have understood that there are no openings, that there are no hopes, that there is no opening. a short time ago, very recently, in my region - i come from veneto - there was an event, vinitaly, which is one of the most important events in the world of wine and a petition in defence of rosé wines was a huge success. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the passion for rosé, as you see, is genuine and has no real boundaries except, it seems, in the european commission, and yet we are talking about culture, we are talking about territoriality, we are talking about tradition. i'd also like to give you, as a woman, a thought: but when we fight against the misuse of alcohol, do you think that by putting in our hands a drink of poor quality, i will not call it wine, a cheap alcoholic drink, completely rooted in the land, in culture, in quality, we will be doing a good service to the new generations? can we educate them to a balanced use of wine and alcohol within the framework of good habits and good practice? i also give you this reflection because you are taking on great responsibilities in many ways.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from what i have heard it is clear that turkey is a country with very serious problems of democracy. we have seen and heard of 15,000 children in prison, we have heard of hundreds of arrests on questionable charges, we are witnessing the continuation of the kurdish problem and also the armenian problem, the historic problem which is absolutely unresolved. we've seen priests or missionaries murdered in the last two years, we have endless problems. if we compare this situation with that of another country, for example, belarus, which is still considered a pariah in europe, a country that would even be part of an axis of evil, it is not clear why we are still talking about turkey's entry into europe. it is clear that there are strong lobbies which favour and which absolutely want turkey to join europe. we must not forget that there is a problem in cyprus which is quite unique in its substance: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think, however, that the inevitability of a decision against turkey's accession to europe is becoming increasingly clear to the european public. i remember a few facts: the turkish people have 90 million inhabitants, a rapidly growing population, and we forget that the turkish-speaking countries of central asia require turkish citizenship and the turkish state seems to be prepared to grant it, which would mean that turkey's accession would not only be as such, but would also represent the accession of other peoples, other states to europe. we must not forget that turkey has historically been against europe and that today it plays an important sentinel role for two powers which are certainly not european, namely the united states and israel. finally, let us not forget the religious fact: the entry of millions of turks into europe would mean the opening of thousands and thousands of mosques and therefore the diminishing of christian identity and civil identity in europe, without forgetting that mosques often and willingly also represent, in some cases, the entry of ideas strongly anti-freedom, anti-women and anti-european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, first of all i would like to welcome the chairman of the dtp party, mr ahmet türk, who is with us in the gallery and is following the debate. i am sure that the commission will be able to support the efforts of the turkish government to bring about a peaceful solution to the kurdish problem. we recognize the dtp as an indispensable instrument for the promotion of democracy in turkey and therefore we strongly condemn the police operations that prime minister erdogan has ordered against you, by imprisoning all three dtp vice-presidents together with over 300 militants and sympathizers. the victory of the dtp in the last administrative elections proves that the dtp party is a party with strong popular democratic support. the european parliament, in its resolutions, has asked prime minister erdogan to engage in direct discussions with the dtp and instead his response has been more repression, more police, more authoritarianism, more prisons. everyone knows that my group in this parliament and the left in europe have always supported the process of turkey's accession to the european union, while at the same time supporting the reform process in that country. but i think that in the last two years, and especially in the last few months, erdogan has shown another face, that of a leader who is compromised with the worst part of the turkish army that simply wants to massacre the kurds. the reform process is virtually dead, the prisons are filling up with kurds, it is erdogan himself who is closing any prospect of turkish membership, he is responsible, and he alone, for what is happening in euro-turkish relations and the growing perplexity of european public opinion towards turkey. i want to send a very strong political message to erdogan: the european union must not allow the kurdish people to be forced to leave their country, and we must not allow the kurdish people to be forced to leave their country. the road to turkey's accession to the union must pass through diyarkabir and the dtp, otherwise it will be we, those who have most supported the accession process, who will be calling for a pause in reflection which may be definitive.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank honourable members, first of all, for a very serious and substantive debate on the democratic process in turkey, and i also want this evening to thank the european parliament for its contribution to the eu’s policy in relation to turkey. there has been critical but constructive support for our engagement with turkey in a very critical period. i think parliament’s approach – like, i trust, the commission’s approach – can be described as fair and firm in relation to turkey and its eu accession process. indeed, in my view, we have to be fair and firm and only by being both at the same time can we achieve results. what i mean is that we have to be fair in the sense of maintaining the eu perspective as the critical driver of reforms in the country, keeping our word concerning turkey’s chance to show that it will be able to meet eu accession criteria. at the same time, we have to be firm by applying rigorous conditionality, especially as regards fundamental freedoms and democratic principles. these two key elements – fairness and firmness – only work together and they cannot be separated from each other. i think that is clearly the best way of supporting a democratic transformation in turkey, which is our objective, because it makes turkey a better partner and a prospective possible member state of the european union, in line with the negotiating framework adopted in the early hours of 4 october 2005. the current state of affairs is pretty much a mixed picture, as joost lagendijk, the chair of the european parliament delegation to the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee, described it. sometimes it feels like two steps forward and one step backward, but better that way than vice versa. as mr duff raised the issue, i think that the ergenekon investigation is a case in point. in view of the investigation so far, it seems that it was essential that this network behind potential political or other attacks against democracy in turkey was revealed and will continue to be revealed in the spirit of the rule of law and democratic secularism. on the other hand, in the recent stages of the ergenekon investigation, one may question whether all the principles of the rule of law have been truly applied or whether there are some other political purposes behind these arrests. the jury is still out. we are following this very closely and we shall certainly report on this in our forthcoming progress report in the coming autumn. in my view, three principles are particularly important. first of all, the democratic principles: pursuing constitutional reform, where reform of the rules governing political parties is essential in view of the experiences of last year, this year and previous years, when we have seen the pitfalls of the constitutional framework of turkey in this regard, as pointed out by the venice commission of the council of europe. second, freedom of expression, which graf lambsdorff referred to, is the bedrock of democracy. this was discussed quite recently at the meeting of parliament’s joint parliamentary committee with the turkish grand national assembly. i am concerned about media freedom and its development in turkey and we will certainly come back to this as a special section in our progress report in the coming autumn. yes, there has been positive progress concerning the consequences of the reform of the infamous article 301 some one or two years ago. on the other hand, relative progress concerning article 301 does not justify attacks on media freedom elsewhere, as has been referred to in several statements this evening. finally, the rule of law, which is underpinning the functioning of all society and the economy and which is the key value of the european union: that is illustrated in the fight against terrorism, which we support, as long as it is conducted in line with the rule of law and principles of justice in the best european tradition. so, the pace of negotiations with turkey will essentially depend on the progress and intensity of the reforms enhancing fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the country, in all walks of life and all corners of the country. that is the foundation of the negotiation process. progress in the technical negotiations will depend on whether there is serious progress in, and intensity and implementation of, these reforms enhancing fundamental freedoms and human rights and democratic secularism. these are enshrined in the treaty on european union and in our common european values. that is the critical yardstick of turkish progress towards the european union.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by janusz wojciechowski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of animals at the time of slaughter (com (2008) 0553 - c6-0451/2008 - 2008/0180 (cns)) (a6-0185/2009).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, for having supported the main elements of the commission proposal on the protection of animals at the time of killing. in particular, i am pleased that the european parliament accepted the general approach of the proposal, which is to ensure the animal welfare legislation applicable to slaughterhouses is in line with the hygiene package which was adopted back in 2004. the current legislation on the protection of animals at slaughter dates back to 1993 and is clearly not in line with the latest developments in the areas of food safety, animal health and animal welfare. under the current proposal, slaughterhouse operators will have to establish standard operating procedures, rely on welfare indicators for stunning, and personnel will have to receive training on animal welfare. on the issue of religious slaughter, i would like to stress that the commission fully shares the attachment of the european parliament to freedom of religion and to underline that the commission’s intention is to maintain the status quo on this sensitive matter. the treaty clearly states the need to take into account practices related to religion in the formulation of community policy. it is clear that there are many different practices regarding religious slaughter across the member states of the union. the commission suggests that subsidiarity should be maintained in this area. it has worked well for the past 15 years and should continue to work well in the future. in this respect, we can accept in principle, subject to rewording, amendments that reflect the approach of the current legislation, which preserves the right of freedom of religion while allowing member states to adopt or maintain stricter rules. in this regard, i would note that there seems to be agreement in council along these lines. i would now like to say a few words on the practice of backyard slaughter. today, the slaughter of animals for private consumption is permitted outside slaughterhouses (except cattle), but pigs, sheep and goats must have previously been stunned. some citizens in the member states traditionally slaughter pigs for christmas and lambs for easter. the preservation of these traditions is important to the commission but there is no need to derogate from the stunning of animals, thereby undermining the welfare of the animals. therefore the commission believes that prior stunning should always be performed when pigs or lambs are slaughtered outside slaughterhouses. another point of the proposal is related to the establishment of a national centre of reference. we believe that this element is essential to guarantee proper enforcement of the proposed measures. in slaughterhouses, official inspectors perform food safety controls, mainly on carcasses. they have little time and limited competences to assess animal welfare parameters. these days, stunning equipment is complex and difficult to evaluate in relation to their welfare efficiency. national reference centres would meet the need for technical and scientific information on the welfare of animals at slaughter and the commission considers that this requirement should be maintained in the proposal. the commission also believes that certificates of competence required for the personnel in slaughterhouses should be issued following an independent examination. this system has been developed in other areas of animal welfare, both in the public and the private sector. where this has been properly implemented, it has provided good results. this should therefore be extended to all eu slaughterhouses. animals are also killed in huge numbers outside slaughterhouses in order to control the spread of disease. it is true that requirements already exist for animal health purposes, but today’s requirements do not relate to animal welfare. people consider that mass culling for disease-control purposes should be performed in the most humane way possible. transparency, which means proper reporting, is therefore essential. furthermore, previous experience in these emergency situations has shown that it is crucial to collect information on good practices and on mistakes that might have occurred. proper monitoring and reporting on animal welfare should therefore be required in cases of mass culling. i would very much welcome your support of the commission proposal. if successfully adopted, the european union would have the potential to lead and innovate globally on animal welfare.
i am glad to be speaking this evening for the last time, at least for this parliamentary term, under your presidency, which i believe will be your last, since you have decided not to run again. i am pleased to express my appreciation, mr cocilovo, for your work in this parliament, for the appreciation which you have aroused in all the members of this house, not just in the italian delegation. i am elected in the same constituency as you, we are political opponents, but i feel i owe it to you to do so and i wish you a fruitful political career in the interests of our country, but also of europe. i'll get to the point. i think that we in the committee on agriculture have done a very good job, having listened to advisers, having listened to the professional groups, we have tried to improve the text that was coming to us from the council and the commission, making it more applicable and more coherent, protecting what is the expression and the right to religious practices, in all its facets. there were some contradictions, because the commission and the council said and said that they were protecting ritual slaughter, but certain obligations made it impossible in practice. i am referring to the reversal and i am referring to the much debated issue of stunning. it sounds, you know, dialectically cruel, but instead of what it is: a clean cut has the same level of pain as a stunning shot that happens with a bullet lodged in the forehead, after which there is no more pain, after which it would be an additional cruelty to stun the animals after the slaughter has taken place. so i believe that there is no animal cruelty if after the slaughter they are not stunned. the human rights charter says that when there is a conflict with animal rights, human rights prevail, then the right to religious practices, not only muslims, not only jews, but also christians - as has been discussed at length in the committee - must be protected and must be protected to the end, also because, since we provide for reciprocity with third countries, those who practice certain types of religion could not eat meat in europe because it cannot be produced in europe and cannot be imported. i don't think that's fair. i know.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 may 2009.
the agenda includes the report by richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure (2007/2124 (oj c 214, 29.6.2009) (a6-0273/2009).
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greens and the european free alliance have never liked the major reforms of parliament carried out by mr corbett. he is a friend of mine, we have been working together for many years, he knows this and therefore he will not blame me, because they tend to make our parliament a bureaucratic machine where the role of individual members and minor groups and even committees must be subordinated to the increasingly arbitrary decision-making power of the conference of presidents and the administration and they make confusing and tendentially conflicting the relationship between the committee responsible for the substance and those responsible for opinions in the legislative procedure. i must say that i am very surprised that in this debate tonight we are not discussing what we believe are the fundamental problems of this reform of the rules of procedure. the first is precisely the confusion that will inevitably arise between the committee responsible for the substance and the committee responsible for the opinion, because when the committee responsible for the substance rejects the amendments of the committee responsible for the opinion, they can go straight to the house, obviously creating a very dangerous potential for legislative confusion, as we have seen in the case of reach. and then there is the fact that there is no longer a committee for an opinion which is really free to do its work, through this confused and totally unacceptable figure of the possibility of joint votes and of having joint rapporteurs on matters of particular importance to our legislative power. finally, mr president, there is another element which is of great concern to us. one of the results we regarded as positive of the working party on internal reforms, of which i was a member, was the proposal to strengthen the powers and role of the committee on petitions in a really significant way. the role of the committee on petitions is being killed in this reform, in the sense that it will not be possible for the committee on petitions to come directly to the house, except after unspeakable complications and possible conflicts with the committee responsible. for all these reasons our group does not think that this reform is ready and we believe that it would be a mistake for the majority of our parliament to adopt it.
thank you, your honor. of course, mr corbett will have his reply, but i cannot help noticing that, pending the experimentation with the blue card, mr frassoni used the red card.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 may 2009.
the agenda includes the report by mr gérard onesta, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the revision of the regulation on the petition procedure (2006/2209 (oj c 206, 29.6.2009) (a6-0027/2009).
i must correct mr leinen because, having been involved in property policy, mr onesta will leave behind many permanent works, in addition to those connected with the political initiative.
i apologise to my colleague for being immediately reprimanded for mispronouncing his surname, which is botopoulos and not botopoulos, and i apologise again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr gérard for his work on behalf of the green group and the european free alliance. we were at a party together and we will be back soon to finish our thanks and celebrations. i would like to say in this connection that we support this report, but we also believe that the corbett reform is a problematic one in terms of the report to the committee on the substance, and i would also like to say a word to mr botopoulos: it is not that the committee on petitions is a strange committee, it is a committee with a very specific role and most of the time petitions have to do with the application of community law, they have to do with violations of directives and laws which, obviously, do not always have a very clear relationship with the committee on the substance. i'll go further than that. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on petitions, which are not in the committee on petitions' report. here's my fear: i am afraid that the committee on petitions, which expresses, not always but often, its concern for the application of community directives, must wait for permission from the competent committees which make laws and which therefore have a different role, and must ask the conference of presidents for permission when it is simply a question of monitoring the application, which has nothing to do, i repeat, with the legislative function of parliamentary committees. that is why i am expressing my concern about the reform proposed by mr corbett on petitions, although i very much agree with what mr onesta said and i thank you again, vice-president, for your tolerance of the timing.
it was rather a gallant gesture because it was the last speech of the evening, except for the reply by our rapporteur, mr honesta, to whom i give the floor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 may 2009.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the trilogue on 2 april an agreement was finally reached between parliament and the czech presidency. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, i welcome this agreement, which has thus made it possible to proceed with the legislative procedure on the recovery plan in accordance with the desired timetable. the financing arrangements for 2009 are very clear: of the total of 3.98 billion, 2 billion will be allocated to energy through a compensation under heading 2, 'protection and management of natural resources'. the remaining 1.98 billion for energy will be determined in the 2010 budgetary procedure and, if necessary, completed in the 2011 budgetary procedure. i think it is important, however, that the compensation mechanism applied to the various headings does not jeopardize the financial package of the programmes decided upon jointly, nor the annual budgetary procedure. i also believe that, in view of the deficit which the current interinstitutional agreement has shown, it is appropriate to examine the matter in greater depth in order to make that agreement more flexible and therefore better able to respond to further financial needs.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on regional development has been asked to give its opinion to the committee on agriculture and rural development on the proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development from the eafrd fund, which has come to the house today for discussion under the more general 5 billion package. the measure in question is identified as a timely response by the commission to the needs underlying the decision adopted by the council of the european union on 11 and 12 december 2008 to approve a european economic recovery plan containing concrete measures in several areas of community and national competence to deal with the economic and financial crisis that affected european markets since 2007. in the field of rural development, the commission proposal proposes to introduce appropriate updates to council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 to incorporate the indications of the european plan. overall, the commission's proposal to make eur 1.5 billion available to all member states through the european rural development fund to develop broadband internet access in rural areas and to address the new challenges identified in the november 2008 evaluation of the medium-term reform of the common agricultural policy is fully supported by the committee on regional development, which believes that the envisaged measures, if implemented quickly and in an integrated manner, can certainly contribute, especially when combined with the need to maximise spending opportunities in the first years as expressed by the council to rebuilding national economies and rebuilding consumer confidence in the system, as well as to effectively pursuing the objectives of territorial and social convergence in the regions of the union. the committee did not limit itself to evaluating the measures proposed by the european commission, but considered that it was making a contribution by introducing certain amendments to the text submitted to it. the main point that the committee on regional development wanted to highlight is the need to increase transparency and information on the results achieved in the period 2009-2011 and to ensure appropriate instruments for the coordination of actions financed by the eafrd and the structural funds on broadband internet infrastructure. it did so by requesting the commission, by means of a specific amendment to the text of the proposed measure, to include in the annual monitoring report for the european rural development fund a section explicitly dedicated to the verification of the results obtained on this activity.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal under discussion is part of the €5 billion package for the european economic recovery plan, of which €1040 billion is for the construction and completion of infrastructure for broadband internet coverage in rural areas and for the strengthening of the new challenges introduced by the assessment of the health of the common agricultural policy. in order to respond to the current financial crisis, it is necessary to intervene, especially in rural areas, with instruments aimed at helping these territories to break out of the structural isolation to which they belong. it is therefore strategic to ensure that the available community funds are used, increasing their effectiveness and added value. in rural development, every possible measure should be taken to ensure greater flexibility and financial efficiency. i think it is essential that the commission should commit itself to assisting the member states in adopting national strategies and rural development programmes aimed at promoting employment. i should point out, however, that according to the rules of the rural development fund, broadband projects are mainly managed by public administrations - provinces, municipalities and mountain communities - which cannot, however, report vat, which is not the case with other programmes, with other basic regulations of the structural funds where such expenditure is considered eligible. the economic crisis has only exacerbated the difficulties already existing for these local authorities, and as a result the impact of vat on budgets linked to the construction of various works is so high that there is a risk that public authorities will give up investing and that unspent resources will return to the community budget. finally, as regards the allocation of resources, i would argue that the use of historical criteria, as proposed by the commission, should be used.
i thank mr titley for the 20 years he has devoted to the european cause.
before i give the floor to commissioner mccreevy, with reference to the fact that several colleagues have made their last speech in the house today, i feel obliged, on behalf of my colleagues, but also on behalf of all european citizens and voters, to thank him for his commitment over these years. the task they have taken on, to try to make things better, i believe deserves the thanks of all our fellow citizens.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 6 may 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by amending the directives on credit institutions, their own funds, the disbursement of large deposits, and the mechanisms for supervision and crisis management, the european union is moving towards a general reset of the whole system. the amended directive would eliminate the discretions of the member states on own funds which would hinder the harmonization of supervisory practices and competitive parities between banks. these discrepancies must be remedied by common rules to enable the supervisory authorities and central banks to deal with the eventual insolvency of the banking system, especially in the countries adopting the euro. the amendments relate to the need to make the supervision of crossborder banking groups more efficient. the reopening of interinstitutional negotiations on the agreement reached between the ep and the council concerned the minimum threshold to be set for the nominal value of securitisations. this is the amount of risk that banks must hold on their balance sheets when placing 'structured' products with savers. in the council all the member states had voted in favour of maintaining a 5% threshold. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, and as many of our colleagues do not, because of the very little information provided by the presidency on this matter which is being kept quiet, the european court of justice has finally ruled on the long dispute which, despite myself, has seen me in opposition to the european parliament and to mr occhetto. the court has annulled the decision of this house of 24 may not to confirm my mandate after it had been proclaimed by the national authorities and to order the european parliament to pay the costs. the timely decision of the court was intended to restore the legitimate composition of the assembly before the expiry of its term of office, but instead president pöttering, at 5 p.m. on 4 may, gave this house a partial, ambiguous and confusing communication on the matter, re-invoking the juri committee to verify my credentials, knowing full well that this is only a record-taking. not only that, but he has failed to call for an extraordinary meeting of the commission, since this is the last sitting of the legislature, unless he thinks he can extend my mandate for the next one. i therefore call on the presidency to correct this further and gross error by tomorrow, in compliance with the judgment of the court of justice. madam president, i would have liked to have spared the european parliament this heavy judicial defeat, but i greet you and your colleagues with warm congratulations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am making a request for referral back to committee and i would like to explain why. when discussing this legislation we talked a lot about impact assessments. that is to say: every time you introduce a new rule you have to be able to say what the impact will be. concerning the new rules that we are going to vote on today in the corbett report, we do not understand what the consequences will be of dramatically changing the way in which we make legislation by allowing the possibility of committees and multiple rapporteurs being able to present completely contradictory procedures and amendments for the vote in plenary. that is why the verts/ale group demands a referral back to the committee, not because we believe that we cannot improve the situation but because this involves pushing through a reform that will make our legislative life very difficult in the future. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary term, and especially under your presidency, parliament has strengthened its capacity to influence the future of the union politically, even if we will have to wait for the new treaty to see the hopes of those who have always believed in the need for greater legislative power of our institution, unique in the world because it is elected by the citizens of 27 countries, come true. it was a legislative period full of events, often tragic ones, and on many occasions, especially in the last two and a half years, parliament has been able, through you, mr president, to play a decisive role in mediating proposals. we have an increasingly important political role to play, one which must help us to overcome the partisan differences which divide us at national level in order to achieve common goals, in the common interest of our peoples and for greater justice, peace and security in the world. we have opened the legislature with nations that for so many decades had suffered the deprivation of their freedom finally reunited with us, and in the legislature the accession of romania and bulgaria has strengthened the image of a europe capable of creating unity while respecting differences. we are closing the legislature in the midst of an economic crisis which has made us realise that there is a systemic crisis and that the new parliament must therefore also be the driving force to help society rediscover values which are too often neglected today. parliamentary democracy, at european and national level, is a guarantee of freedom more than ever before. mr president, i thank you on behalf of my group and my staff for your commitment - you have represented us all - and for the great contribution you have made to the prestige of our institution, for which we are asking not only for ever greater transparency but for due attention from certain media which have dealt with europe only for small and sterile polemics and not to contribute to the growth of a common conscience and shared progress. mr president, after twenty years in this parliament, i feel obliged to thank you, who represent me ideally in this chamber, and the millions of european citizens who, by working and respecting the principles of solidarity, justice and the roots of our past, contribute daily to the development of a society that is more respectful of rights and more aware of its duties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, you have had the immense privilege of presiding over the most original institution in the world, and we greens are sure that you have done so with motivation and passion, and we thank you for that. when i stood against her two and a half years ago as my group's candidate for the presidency of the european parliament, i had insisted very strongly on the need for the president of parliament to represent an institution that is free from the interests of the member states and the pressure of the economic lobbies, to lead an administration that is equally free and chosen according to criteria of competence and not political loyalty, and to be able to speak to an increasingly divided and indifferent public opinion. we had then strongly criticised the choice made by you and the socialist group to eliminate any initiative to revive the constitutional debate after the 2005 referendums, a huge mistake that made it easier for the states to take back control of the process of reforming europe. two and a half years later, the assessment of his work, president pöttering, is in the dark for the greens/european free alliance. we have approved and supported his work in the middle east, in particular his work as president of the euro-mediterranean assembly. we appreciated his unwavering europeanist faith and his idea of a parliament open to the most daring citizens, groups, associations and cultural initiatives, and his determination on the status of assistants. we have welcomed his strong commitment to fundamental rights, even in places that are uncomfortable for the majority of the european parliament itself, from russia to china, and also his green conversion, as his recent words on climate change show. but it is also clear, mr president, that under your presidency our parliament has continued its gradual transformation from an institution of struggle and democratic demands to an assembly that is too often docile and careful not to disturb this or that government. it has resigned itself to not making the battle and transparency a privileged area of visibility vis-à-vis the voting public. just think of the failure, entirely piloted, of the working group on lobbies, which ends today with nothing done despite a very explicit resolution adopted a year ago, or the silence on the issue of the double strasbourg-brussels headquarters and the waste of money and co2 incomprehensible to our voters. mr president, i want to conclude. through successive reforms of the rules of the game, your presidency has also accompanied the progressive centralisation of power in a few hands in our institution, with respect to the strengthening of the work of committees, the role of individual members and the enhancement of diversity and pluralism. mr president, there may be a new majority in the new parliament, but we are certain of one thing: the long battle for a strong, respected, pluralistic and sympathetic european democracy is not over, and we will always have you by our side on this point at least.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that at the end of the parliamentary term, on such a sensitive subject, the european parliament has chosen a schizophrenic path, because it is schizophrenic to be thrown into the future, even when it presents technologies used to teach violence and rape, and to rush back into history to return to tribal rites and to satisfy those who need to see blood flowing and further needless suffering in the eyes of the victim. we firmly reject a tribal slaughter which does not take into account the consent and free choice of individual member states.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just heard very serious and even slanderous statements by a maltese colleague against the italian government and in particular against minister maroni. the one in malta is actually - and i'll explain it right away - a little bit of a game. i do not want to call it a dirty game just out of respect for a member of the european union, but our colleague should have honestly said that malta has always wanted to maintain an excessive extension of its territorial waters which go as far as the island of lampedusa. the italian government has repeatedly asked malta to reduce the enormous extent of its territorial waters. malta prefers to maintain these to maintain its high level of demand for contributions from the european union. then the truth must be told in full: the truth of italy's capacity and willingness to welcome and protect and safeguard the rights of migrant workers who are victims of this trafficking is so clear and documented that i do not need to support it. turning to the subject of this report, i would stress that it is our duty - rather than making these polemics resemble the chicken fights in manzoni's famous novel - it is the duty of our member states not to give in to the sirens of goodwill, perhaps seasoned with hypocrisy and very concrete political and economic interests, and to make an effort to give the sacred principle of asylum a very rigorous application, not giving any space to those who intend to use it for purposes other than their own, not in accordance with the noble principles that inspire it, avoiding its exploitation, which is entirely in favour of those criminal organizations which organise and exploit the trafficking of illegal immigrants, to which we refer in the current situation. i repeat, it is our duty not to pretend, not to create instrumental disputes, but to find a common line, also fighting and taking effective measures so that the right of asylum remains as such and does not become the right of exploiters and mafiosi to use the noble and good laws for the filthy mafia purposes of exploiting the peoples of the third world.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter and that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the asylum seekers are treated fairly and that they are not subject to any discrimination. we are witnessing this shift of responsibility between italy and malta, as we saw a few days ago, with the pinar ship, which was kept at sea for too long and which then resulted in the death of some people who probably could still have survived. i think that is what we are talking about when we talk about asylum, we are talking about this real need, this commitment that member states must show in terms of reception policies. i very much welcome the proposals made by my colleagues, mr masip hidalgo and mrs hennis-plasschaert, concerning the amendment of the reception directive and the dublin regulation. both proposals are aimed at improving the european union's reception system for asylum seekers. i believe that we have an obligation to reiterate the equivalence between european citizens and asylum seekers, because asylum is not a concession made by the member states to people fleeing war, asylum is a duty on the part of the member states and it is a right on the part of these people to be able to stay in our countries with all the rights due to european citizens. so i think that this is a point of civility in our political initiative and our legislative capacity. i therefore welcome the amendments to this directive and to this regulation, and i believe that we must guarantee the right to asylum to all those who seek it, because the future of the european union depends on the quality of our reception. i believe that this must be a point of reference in our very idea of european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks to all those, all the colleagues and officials who have worked together to improve the text we are going to vote on tomorrow. i would like to thank mr demetriou in particular, whose excellent recommendation i have just heard inspired my report. i have always worked with the need to provide useful guidance for the construction of a genuine european area of judicial cooperation in mind and i hope, indeed i am convinced, that my work will be useful to the next swedish presidency, which will have the difficult task of drawing up the stockholm programme. in drafting the text, i took two basic considerations as my starting point: the first is that criminal proceedings have numerous and important implications for the fundamental freedoms of both victims of crime and of the suspects and accused. the priority, therefore, which this parliament cannot fail to stress, the main point of my report, is the attention to respect for human rights. the recommendation devotes a great deal of attention to the defence of fundamental rights, with particular reference to the protection of victims, prison conditions, the rights of prisoners, procedural guarantees, including the right to a statement of rights and to the assistance of an ombudsman, the right to evidence, the right to be informed of the nature and grounds of the accusation and to have access to relevant documents in an understandable language, and therefore the right to an interpreter. the second consideration i am guided by is that, as the report on the implementation of the 2007 hague programme shows, the level of implementation in judicial cooperation in criminal matters has been rather low, while satisfactory developments have been recorded in other areas, such as cooperation in civil matters, border management, immigration, asylum policies. clearly, then, more must be done. the principle of mutual recognition, the cornerstone of judicial cooperation, is far from being satisfactorily implemented. we must get to the root of the problem, identify the causes of this low growth, so that we can devise the most effective solutions. the main causes, i believe, lie in the lack of mutual knowledge and trust between the states, which is why i emphasize in the report training, evaluation, exchange of information and good practice. as regards training, it is certainly not necessary to forget the considerable progress made, in particular thanks to the training support provided by the european judicial training network. however, in my view, we need to move beyond the current training model based mainly on national vocational schools to build a stronger common legal culture which is still lacking. i therefore felt the need to move towards a european training institute for judges and lawyers, well structured, with adequate resources, but stressing the need to avoid unnecessary duplication with what already exists and to give the national schools an important role. the second point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the proposal is therefore to set up a group of experts to monitor the application of community law and the quality and efficiency of justice on a permanent basis, on the model of the schengen mutual evaluation system. the aim is also to identify any weaknesses and legislative gaps in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, so as to provide the european legislator with all the information tools necessary for a correct policy and regulatory assessment. finally, the use of new technologies, which is very important for data collection, strengthening existing banking systems and the circulation of information. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a repeat of the excellent result achieved in the libe committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the three reports under discussion are partially acceptable. the one proposed by mrs zwiefka is the most easily digestible, since it makes the procedure for negotiating and concluding bilateral agreements on sectoral matters between member states and third countries more uniform and, in short, more transparent. as for the report by mr deprez, it is essentially to be welcomed in the second part, where it calls for the necessary consistency which it requires of the commission if it is to develop a community policy on external relations in the field of judicial cooperation. as for the possibility of the member states concluding agreements, as a nationalist i am naturally pleased and hope that this is not a process that is necessarily limited in scope and time. finally, i have some doubts about the recommendation of mrs pagano. i thank you for mentioning and supporting the use of e-justice, especially since i was entrusted with the report and i still appreciate all those who collaborated in its good purpose. but my sensitivity to issues concerning the fundamental freedoms of victims, as well as of the investigated and the accused, and the need to implement judicial training for judges and practitioners, make me realize that there is still a long way to go in this regard - certainly in italy. and on the european arrest warrant, i frankly add the contradiction to the doubts. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their expertise and timeliness in dealing with these issues.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the council for its shared principles and, if i may, especially commissioner barrot, with whom i had a very fruitful exchange of views which was very useful to me in the work we then carried out in the house. i would also like to thank very much the colleagues who have worked on this report, who have given me ideas and, of course, brought all their experience, first of all my colleague mr demetriou and baroness ludford and the excellent president deprez. i would like to say that what demetriou, ludford and deprez are saying is the most important thing, and that is the challenge of the european union, because the challenge we face is to achieve a unified european judicial culture, of course by waging a serious battle on what deprez says, the independence of the judiciary, the guarantees and by reducing the disparities between the various judicial systems. but i think the work we've done allows us to be optimistic. i would like to say to mr romagnoli that - i say it myself, let us say from my point of view, which should also be his - basically, there is certainly pessimism for italy, of reason, but we must have an optimism of will, and the work that you, mr romagnoli, have done and the contribution you have made to the report means that we can all together build the european union and the european union is a reality for us italians too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of europeans, british, italian and french, who do not want a europe based on political correctness, based on a liberal and anti-social vision, as we saw in the bolkestein project, or based on a totalitarian and jacobin centralism, or on a secular, masonic and marxist vision. i think that europeans are very much interested in real social freedoms, in those which give families, communities and social bodies the possibility of genuine progress, and in a europe based on subsidiarity and, indeed, on social bodies and on a profound christian and roman view of history. this is the europe that is directly opposed to that of the lisbon treaty, which is the one desired by the powerful powers, the one desired by the lobbies that want to centralize the situation in a dramatic way. we think that the europeans must finally vote to throw this treaty overboard.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is of particular importance, as is well known, for two reasons: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat asbestos, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. secondly, because we are discussing one of the first implementing measures of the very important regulation which has made a certain mark on this legislature, namely reach. with the question we have put and the draft resolution we are voting on today - i say this at once also to reassure the commission and vice-president tajani who is here on his behalf - we are not opposed to the draft implementing regulation which the commission has adopted in this connection. i am referring to paragraph 2.6 of this draft, in so far as it fills in the blank in annex 17 and will instead have to transpose the provisions of annex 1 to directive 76. the directive on dangerous substances, which is superseded by reach, has therefore been repealed. in fact, however, the same decision confirms those derogations, that possibility of derogations for the member states - for the record, there are four - which have the possibility of keeping on the market articles introduced before 2005 and also of keeping diaphragms containing chrysotile asbestos, used in the production of existing electrolysis plants. of course, member states are free to use these derogations if they comply with all the community rules on the protection of workers and it is clear that these plants, being basically closed-loop, do not cause any problems for the health of workers. we don't object for one reason: the commission has already provided for a mechanism through which these derogations will be reviewed over time - in 2012 at the latest - by means of reports to be submitted by the member states concerned and on the basis of which the european chemicals agency will have to prepare a dossier which will allow these derogations to be phased out. we are not opposed to this, but we are certainly giving a strong impetus with that resolution, we want to give you, the commission, an input to go a little further, a little further and a little faster, so to speak, especially taking into account the fact that, at least for high-voltage plants, there are already substitutes for chrysotile asbestos and that the companies concerned have actually started interesting research programmes to replace it also in low-voltage plants. so, there are two ways in which our stimulus, our input, goes. the first is to give ourselves a date, a deadline - let us say 2015 - by which to overcome these derogations by activating a real strategy for overcoming them, including the necessary measures for the dismantling of these plants in safety and also in export safety. finally, the second commitment we ask the commission to make - and we would like to have an answer on this too - concerns a point which is critical to us, namely that a community list of articles containing asbestos for which a derogation is provided for has not yet been adopted, and we naturally ask that this list be established as soon as possible by 2012, so that we can have greater control and better knowledge.
it seems that the thousands of deaths caused by asbestos so far, the tens of thousands of people who are likely to die in the coming years from previous exposure to asbestos - the latency time, as we know, can be up to 15 or even 20 years - really do not matter. it seems that the eternit trial, which began in turin, has no bearing on what happened in casale monferrato, where there is not a family that has not had a bereavement inside. asbestos should have been banned by the member states under the 1999 directive. states should have taken all possible precautions to protect exposed workers, by applying the 2003 directive, closing plants, cleaning up contaminated sites, compensating victims and the population. this has not happened everywhere. little or nothing has been done. i have already spoken of the turin trial, where swiss and belgian owners are accused. everyone knew, but little was done, and it is above all industry that is shirking its responsibilities, acting in the wake of the inaction of the public authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the industry is now asking the commission to tolerate a temporary derogation from the reach regulation in 2006 for chrysotile asbestos fibres. it is true that low-voltage electrolysis plants have limited application, and only in a few plants, but where industrialists claim that no alternative is possible, the plants will have to be closed. a blackmail, but alternatives to this process have been found in sweden, using technologies in the replacement of asbestos-free membranes, for low voltage, and a similar solution has also been adopted for the production of hydrogen. why is it in some states and not in others? because in the long battle to ban pcbs, countless omissions and reticence have been the movers and shakers, even endorsed by the european commission's enterprise dg. again, the example was not set. the 1999 directive banning asbestos required that the review of this authorisation be preceded by an opinion of the scientific committee on toxicology, which was never produced. is this how the commission complies with the directives? not to mention the union saying they weren't even consulted. the european parliament is making its own efforts to pursue the failures of others. the resolution calls on the commission to close a legislative gap by 2009 on the banning of second-hand products containing asbestos, roofing, aircraft parts and other items that should be disposed of permanently. the commission is also proposing to set up a european asbestos association, which will be responsible for the implementation of the european asbestos convention. ten years passed, and he kept dying. the gue had called for, among the first initiatives of this parliament, the establishment of a community fund for compensation to victims, of ad hoc funds for decontamination. the request was specifically directed at the commission, which today is flattened by the will of the multinationals. we must instead move to concrete actions and commitments. only when they are based on the same demands as this resolution can we be sympathetic. today, that will has not been expressed, which is why we are voting against the granting of the derogation.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that is correct. i will also be putting in a few staff. first of all, however, i must acknowledge that the commission has given us a substantially positive response to the specific questions we are raising in our resolution. it will of course be the task of the new parliament to check and control that the commitments outlined are respected and respected in the time allotted. i'm putting something personal in there, too, two things. first, a warm welcome to john bowis, with whom we have worked very closely. perhaps we will form a club of observers of the european parliament, particularly on matters on which we have worked together a great deal, and i think with great success. secondly, i should like to say, somewhat symbolically, that the fact that my last speech in this house was on reach, on the implementation of reach, which has engaged me since the beginning of this legislature, when it seemed that we would never be able to conclude that legislative process, well, it shows that i am a lucky person, a lucky person also because i have had the opportunity to know people like you, like you, mr president, with whom we have had a great deal of understanding and many other colleagues with whom, by working together, we have produced what i believe are really important results for the citizens of europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to open this debate, as it were, in a concluding manner, by recommending, as we are doing at this moment, that this house approve the amendment which i and all the colleagues representing the groups in the committee have tabled to close this report at first reading and thus to obtain the adoption of the rules of procedure. we do it with a great sense of responsibility. i think vice-president tajani will agree that the way we have tried to respond to an objective need and difficulty of the airlines at the moment - to allow them to keep the schedules even if they are not used during the next summer semester - is a necessary measure, but a very crude one, a measure that needs to be refined. it needs to be refined because we have been able to see, in the short time we have had to discuss this subject, that there are different interests among airlines, all of them quite legitimate interests, that there are companies waiting to be replaced by others, whereas the former are unable to keep their commitments, that there are now differentiated interests between airlines and airports, which was not the case until recently, and above all that there are interests of passengers, especially those served by airports and lines in the most remote regions, who would be more at risk if the choice of the time slots to be maintained or abolished were left solely to the profitability of the airlines themselves. these are all issues that we could have touched on very quickly, but which we have put on the table. we also imagined that we would have to tackle the basic problem, which is to consider, as we must, the time bands as public goods which can be allocated, granted, to private operators, as airlines are or as airports are, but which cannot be transferred to ownership. this is a very sensitive subject, one on which i think we will have to return, and i must say that the reason, the compromise, if we wish, the noble compromise behind our swift approval of the proposal in the forms that will be presented here is precisely this, is to be sure that the commitment of the commission to return to the subject in a more thoughtful, in-depth manner and to tackle once and for all what is a crucial subject, not only to overcome the crisis today, but to complete that process of restructuring and liberalising the world aviation market, as well as building a better aviation market within europe. that is why, i believe, by combining the needs of the moment with the needs of the longer term, i feel i can recommend that this report be adopted. i too take advantage of the last twenty seconds i have at my disposal, mr president, to take advantage of the atmosphere of the last day of school to thank my schoolmates and those with whom i have had the opportunity to work over these ten years, as i have the great pleasure today of closing my last day in strasbourg with a final contribution which i believe is not entirely minor.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time i have spoken in this chamber. but this is the first time because i am a new member of parliament, and i have seen things that i do not like, namely that president costa has deliberated with his committee and then we find that there are obstacles. they may be right, but this interference outside the committee... there is talk of democracy in europe. i don't think so, mr president. i'm not sure that i am. democracy would mean transparency, and there has been little transparency here in respect for president costa, in respect for the citizens of the air service, in respect for the people, in respect for the airports, in respect for those who work. we want to talk about liberalization here. this is a monopoly. monopoly, because this departure and monopoly for alitalia-air france, for linate and malpensa airports, we have linate, which is in a dramatic situation, 160 000 positions of difficulty. we leave linate congested to allow who, the airport of frosinone wanted by the undersecretary letta? so i ask myself, all these non-services are given because alitalia doesn't have the planes to cover these services, these working hours? so why don't we give them to other companies that can provide a service? president costa rightly says: "we try to do the best we can". i know that president costa is easily disliked by some people - not by me - but by some people he is, because he is not treated in such a rude manner. you see, mr. president, we are faced today... there are 126,000 waiting lists on linate. and outside there's alitalia-air france who don't want to make these moves. but airports have to live too. they have to cut the cost of air travel. why, since we are talking about the public right of way, do we not start teaching them to work for alitalia, air france and other airlines? so, faced with that, i don't want there to be any electoral opportunities. you see, mr president, in europe these systems are called 'lobbies', lobbying systems, in italy they are called 'economic entities', 'mafia', 'camorra' and 'ndrangheta'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely right that the derogation from existing community legislation should allow airlines to maintain their schedules. this derogation is proposed to deal with a crisis which is before everyone's eyes and which we have argued about many times. it is also worth noting that this derogation may in some way, and in my view positively, hinder the entry of third country airlines which, unlike community carriers, often operate under conditions of state aid and other conditions, and this too should be considered in my view. i am, moreover, entirely social, and my support for this initiative should be read in that sense. i would like to remind you that those who are convinced liberals must now follow the opposite logic, and i would be very pleased if they did. i take this opportunity - this is my last speech in this session, and i will hardly be here again next term - to thank all those colleagues who have allowed me to work with them without prejudice and have given me an experience which is humanly and politically immeasurable. i wish everyone well, i would like to thank in particular my colleagues on the committee on transport, mr costa, mr tajani and all the other colleagues, and i would just like to conclude by calling for greater transparency, which i hope the next legislature will really provide, because unfortunately as regards the situation of trainees, assistants, many of our staff, we voted for this transparency, but it is still far from being achieved, and i emphasize above all what we have to offer in terms of - i conclude, mr president - in terms of transparency about our work here, because the press, especially a large part of the italian press, is working on this in a demagogic and absolutely unrealistic way. the attendance data must be public, the working data of individual members must be officially published by the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thank you and all the members who have taken part in this debate on a temporary measure and temporary emphasis in the air transport sector. i would like to begin by thanking all the members who are leaving parliament, and i would also like to thank them for the work they have done. i also want to thank mr savary, qui n'est plus là maintenant. i share your sentiments; i hope to work with him again in the coming years, even if he is no longer a member of the european parliament. i would like to thank the members who are leaving this house for the contribution they have made to the commission, for the intelligent remarks they have made and also for the criticisms they have made. parliament must play this role and no one is more convinced of this than i am, because i believe that without the hard work of parliament, the european institutions would be monotonous, unable to protect the interests of the citizens in the best way. and that is why i would also like to reassure mr jarzembowski, who has asked me a question about comitology: the compromise, which the commission fully shares, provides for the use of codecision for possible renewals for the winter season. these are hypotheses, because, i stress, the measure is temporary and only covers six months. however, any future proposal for renewal will always be preceded by an impact assessment, which takes into account the effects on consumers and competition, as well as being part of a general review of the slot regulation, which is a commitment i made both to the council, on the proposal of the uk minister for transport, and which i have confirmed on several occasions also to members of parliament. but it is the crisis that is causing this urgent intervention. the data provided by the european airports association also tell us that 80% of european airports have a decrease in traffic in january, between 8 and 10% for passengers and between 25 and 30% for cargo. so there is a difficult situation. i hope, and i share the hope and the hope expressed by some members, that the current influx is less worrying than was first thought. but we cannot hide the fact that the proposal to suspend flights from the whole of the european union to a country or to areas where the first outbreaks of the disease were found was on the agenda of both the council of transport ministers last week and the council of health ministers. so, any repercussions, then there was no decision on that because it was not considered that the situation was so worrying: but obviously the debate on this sector is there and a decline, with some crew also deciding not to leave for locations where the flu syndrome was manifested, have caused a further decline in attendance in the air transport sector. i believe that as far as passenger rights are concerned - and this is a subject which has been stressed by many leading members of parliament - what matters is to preserve the links and frequencies for the benefit of the citizens themselves and then to overcome the crisis. the financial strength and sustainability of our airlines are key parameters for safeguarding the benefits of the internal market, and thanks to the internal market passengers have access to a variety of connections, routes and prices that are unprecedented in europe. i want passengers to continue to enjoy this choice. as regards the control regulations, we must meanwhile strengthen the control and application of regulation 261. that is why the commission will publish - and i say this to mr rack - a communication on the application of the regulation in the second half of 2009. we shall draw any conclusions about the future from the analyses. as regards liquids, we have already published the annex on which it was based - previously classified - and, thanks to the use of new and more efficient technologies in terms of safety, we hope to be able to review the situation before 2010. i was very skeptical when i was a member of parliament about the whole liquid thing. i'm still a scientist today, and i'm working toward that goal. as regards the concerns also expressed by other members about some airports which might, as a result of this measure, have problems - i am referring in particular to a european airport which is part of one of the priority projects of the european union, malpensa airport - i can report some data concerning airlines other than the main italian one with french participation. here are some facts: the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the ccipb and ryanair on 1 january 2009 was signed on behalf of ryanair and the ccipb on 1 january 2009. in addition, the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on the basis of the airport services agreement. it is known, among other things, that the new airline lufthansa italia has planned, as can be seen from the website, then public, of the same airline, where it is written that the company is expanding its network, there are new flights from milan to rome and to the cities of naples, bari and to other european cities barcelona, brussels, bucharest, budapest, lisbon, madrid and paris. i can therefore say with absolute certainty that this measure will not cause any damage to an airport, to a european hub, which is malpensa, which is one of the union's priority projects. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament once again for the debate, confirming what i said at the beginning of my speech, in reply to mr jarzembowski, mr simpson and mr blokland, as regards the commitment i am making today as commissioner for transport - and i hope i can do so again as future commissioner for transport - as regards codecision on matters relating to the question of slots. some of the ideas that have emerged, such as those included by the rapporteur in his first amendments, deserve to be carefully studied in the context of the future revision of the time-span allocation regulation and - i repeat - the services are available, which i thank again for the valuable contribution they have made in these weeks of difficult work, and are working to prepare the new text. at the same time, the commission will be following closely the evolution of the crisis in the air transport sector as envisaged in the amendment we are discussing today and will be proposing the appropriate measures to deal with it, placing the utmost importance on the protection of passenger rights. i shall do so not only in the air transport sector but also in maritime, rail and bus transport. it's a commitment we made: there are legislative measures under discussion. i hope that the next parliament will be able to complete them, because our first objective is always and in any case to give answers to the citizens who elect this parliament and who, through the consents of this parliament, also give confidence to the european commission, which is the community executive. mr president, i thank you again, i thank all the members who took part in this debate and president costa for his fruitful cooperation. i am committed to continuing to work with members and the transport committee of this parliament to ensure that the democratic institution representing the european citizens can play an increasingly decisive role. i hope that with the lisbon treaty the next parliament will be able to make the voice of the european citizens even louder.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we need only stress three points. the first: the commission has already made a number of proposals on this subject. we know that this is a compromise between institutions which will respect their commitments. it 's a temporary intervention , and there won 't be a second one . if there is to be a second intervention, it must be in the context of a more comprehensive analysis and proposal on slots. just two suggestions, which i hope will be of some use: the first is to follow closely the effects of this suspension because, intuitively, this will produce a reduction and a non-use of some slots and therefore a non-use of some lines. the selection of what to do and what not to do will be in the hands of the individual companies. i think it would be better to think that if we were to reduce this activity again, there would be public control of the selection process, and not just leave it to the profitability criteria of individual firms. one last suggestion: the problem of slots must be tackled from the bottom up, in its own right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate freely and efficiently, and that the airlines are able to provide the necessary services. thank you again for your cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new role of parliament under the lisbon treaty is a very important one, and i hope that parliament will be able to take advantage of the opportunities. as a member of a traditionally resident ethnic minority, i am particularly pleased that the rights of ethnic minorities are mentioned for the first time in article 2 as individual rights, and i hope that group rights will follow suit as soon as possible. i am leaving after 15 years as a member of parliament here in this parliament and 15 years as a member of parliament in rome, voluntarily, willingly, but not without regret. as an italian citizen, a native speaker of german, of austrian-slovenian descent, with a tyrolean nature - a true european - i was glad that we all found ourselves here as minorities, and that minorities have opportunities here. many people do not yet fully understand the feeling of belonging to a minority. but i hope that they will feel that more and more, including the states. i am grateful for the understanding shown here for minorities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the czech presidency for its efforts, which perhaps can be interpreted as exactly the parable of the situation in which our institutions are now. we all recognise that the european union is the only possible platform for tackling some of the great challenges we face. no one can think, for example, that malta alone or italy with its 5000 km of coastline can solve the problems of immigration, or that many other countries can solve the problems of energy supply. but it is precisely the events of the czech presidency - that is, the struggle against great internal difficulties, but also against a different interpretation of europe - that give us a better idea of what we are called to do. i didn't bring flags with me this morning, but i know this for sure: i am afraid of narrow-minded nationalism and i am also afraid of bureaucratic monsters that can take away the heart of our political experience and make us forget what we are called to achieve. the truth is, we pay for not deciding. we are paying dramatically for not having the courage to take certain decisions which are now epochal decisions and perhaps this is reflected in the fact that we do not have the strength, at this moment, to deal with the most immediate circumstances, which are those linked to a very problematic start to the legislative period. but i think we have a great opportunity. some have won more in this election, some less, but we all know for a fact that we cannot face any challenge unless we all do so together. so i think we have to take responsibility and empower these institutions to bring our citizens closer together, because one thing is for sure: the thing we pay the most for is that we pay, because as a result there is disaffection on the part of our citizens who are moving away from our ideals.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciated the swedish presidency's emphasis on issues of concern to our fellow citizens, our voters, namely the environment and the climate, the financial crisis, the protection of the workplace and the fight against crime, because we must be in tune with those who voted for us if we are to do our job well. we are neither better nor worse than our constituents, but i think it is important to be in tune with what they are asking of us and these points seem to me to go in the direction i have indicated. then, of course, we must move from proposals to concrete actions, and here we shall be measuring ourselves above all in the codecision process, since it is we, the parliament and you, the council, who will be setting the rules which will govern the lives, affairs and interests of our electors, and i think that is the fundamental task of us legislators. we must overcome the crisis of distrust that undoubtedly exists. the low turnout in the elections to this parliament is a symptom of this and to do this we must be in tune with the will of our electors. we also need to avoid comparisons: your country borders norway, i live near switzerland. they are outside the european union, but they are living well, they have the same problems, but they are not worse off than we are, and we must show them that the european union is worthwhile. i think this is a great challenge and i think that with the contribution of all of us we can show that europe is not to be tolerated, but must be an opportunity for those who live in it and for those who are citizens.
before i give the floor to mr stolojan, i would like to say hello to one of our guests, a child who is seated in seat 505. i am particularly pleased that children are close to european issues and our institutions, because we must raise them as europeans from the earliest years of their lives.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from thanking you for putting pavarotti first, i want to say something. after we have indicated with the x the two to vote, should we confirm the vote or should we leave it at that?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since not everyone understood the oral explanation before the vote, it would be appropriate to explain further how the vote is to be taken.
i think the result of the vote shows that the speed of learning was very high. - after the vote, in accordance with rule 16 and rule 15 (2), the order of precedence of the quaestors shall be determined by the order in which they were elected. the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european communities.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on iran.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, congratulations on your election. the repression of citizens who contest the election results, the censorship of the media and the persecution of the opposition are confirmation of the absence of democracy in iran. similar situations are found in other countries such as china, but there are additional reasons for concern in iran. the first: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. second reason: the heavy influence that religious extremism exerts on the political power of the islamic republic. a few hours ago a singer was sentenced to five years, an iranian singer for insulting religion and 12 sunnis were sentenced to death. president ahmadinejad has repeatedly stated that the destruction of the state of israel is a priority objective of his policy. the willingness of iran to develop a nuclear programme outside international controls is also alarming. given that iran is one of the world's largest producers of gas and oil, the real objective seems to be the development of nuclear weapons with clear blackmail power over the countries of the region and the entire international community. it is therefore necessary for all european politics to make a concerted effort to strike the right balance between opposing the ayathollah regime and supporting the moderate and reformist component of iran which exists and is alive. in this connection, the financial resources of the european instrument for democracy and human rights could be used to support all the victims of the ongoing oppression. but no political intervention can be effective without the unity of action and cohesion of all european countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the swedish presidency for the comments which it has made before our debate, which i consider to be balanced and also capable of making us understand the responsibility we are called upon to shoulder. i would like to make a comment in this connection, which arises from the fact that i have seen, as have many others, on television screens around the world, the crowds that have in some way agitated the protest of these days. well, if it is true that iran is a theocracy in which fundamentalism has designed its power project by taking the name of god as a pretext, we have also seen these days people go out into the streets shouting precisely "god is great", but what a difference! that difference in the looks, in the will that those people expressed, in the determination to be nonviolent, tells us that in iran the love of freedom, the love of truth, the love of the destiny of its people, the love and attention to the destiny of each one is not dead. thirty years of theocracy, thirty years of systematic destruction of humanity, have not been enough to erase that memory that is in the heart of each one of us. and that is what we owe allegiance to. it is to this fact, to this love of truth and this love of freedom that we owe unconditional devotion and it is to this that everyone must bear responsibility, because asking the european institutions to be strong, to be determined and to make their voices heard is not, first of all, a request for a geopolitical emphasis on the part of parliament, it is to make it clear that the european institutions, for what represents that political project which we call a united europe, cannot be less than the love for freedom and for truth that is in each of those who have taken to the streets these days.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, there is always the risk of discussing foreign policy issues, such as today's one involving iran, with a slight delay in relation to events. however, there is no doubt that the european parliament, if it wishes, can play an important role in urging europe and the international community itself to take what is happening seriously and to take all the necessary steps to ensure that the process of democratization in iran can be concretely established. we must avoid, after the great attention of world public opinion after the vote in iran and the street demonstrations which the iranian regime has tried to quell with violence, that there is silence on the reality of iran. realism does not mean that we should throw iran out of the picture. it is also our responsibility to keep this attention high and it is also the responsibility of the swedish presidency - which i thank for what it has said today - to take a strong initiative, together with the united states and russia and other countries, to change the course of events in iran from democratic rights to the nuclear issue itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, iran today represents the greatest threat to international security and stability: on the one hand, it is pursuing the objective of acquiring nuclear weapons in violation of un resolutions, and on the other it is reiterating its intention to physically destroy the state of israel. i hope that europe, with the swedish presidency, can send a clear message to iran on a general level, indicating that the non-negotiable values of the right to life, the dignity of the person, freedom of choice cannot be separated from the development of bilateral relations and, on a particular level, make it clear that the right to exist of the jewish state is not negotiable and that europe, which has experienced the holocaust within itself, will not allow that there can be a second holocaust of the jewish state and people.
we now move on to the interventions which cannot last more than a minute. there's a long list of demands. this shows a great willingness to participate which is a credit to this parliament. however, i will not be able to give the floor to all those who request it, because 100 requests would take an hour and a half, whereas we have only 30 minutes.
i thank you, mr president, for giving you 14 seconds more, even though you said something that was incorrect, namely that the treaty of lisbon is the same as the constitution.
thank you, also, for your ability to synthesize.
twenty seconds to mr seán kelly for a very brief reply.
ladies and gentlemen, we've had 39 surgeries in 45 minutes. i think it was a good performance, a good debate and i wish all the best to those who made their first speech. i would particularly stress the need for the commission to take account of the comments made in the debate, otherwise our parliament will become a leak. the commission has been careful. i have watched our commissioners very closely and so i am sure they will follow up on the comments of all our colleagues.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the restructuring of the european automobile industry, with particular attention to the opel case.
mr langen, i am sorry, but there is mr méndez de vigo who, taking advantage of the opportunity afforded by the so-called 'blue card' procedure, would like to put a question to you, a complaint. if you agree, we can give the floor to mr méndez de vigo, otherwise you can continue. of course, your time will be recovered. you'll have 30 seconds extra.
i would like to thank mr langen and mr méndez de vigo because i believe that this was the first test, the first verification of this procedure: she's nice, she makes our debates, which have sometimes been a bit boring, more interesting. but with interruptions, the discussion becomes more interesting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent developments concerning opel have led me to reflect on more than just the purchase of a historic european car manufacturer. i wonder: what kind of industrial policy do we want for europe? i would have preferred that opel had been bought by a european grouping, it would have been a sign of collaboration and solidarity between industries in the sector, as well as a high sense of belonging to the european union. in january 2009, the european commissioner for industry, verheugen, told the general assembly of the automotive industry that the automotive industry is fundamental to the economy, society, employment and research. i am concerned about the possible employment implications of this operation and hope that there will be no cuts. i am even more concerned about state aid, which must not distort competition in the car market. the commission will have to be vigilant to avoid a link between the aid and the closure of the sites. it is a pity that the proposal put forward by fiat was not accepted by the german government or by the management of opel. today's fiat is the most technologically advanced car in the world, just think of what it has done to reduce co2 emissions from its cars.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary instrument that the european union has adopted to deal with such an important issue is undoubtedly a useful instrument, namely the solidarity fund, but it is also true that since 2007, when we considered it appropriate to criticise the way this budgetary instrument is set up, we have highlighted the issue of flexibility. it is important that management should be as flexible as possible in order to meet the problems that arise every day. for example, it is only right that the member states should be asked for a short time - 10 weeks - and no longer - to provide documentation on the events, but why is the same timetable not required for the replies? at the same time, we realise that, while the extent of the damage is important in some ways, the extent of the damage must be proportionate to the difficulty of each individual area in understanding and understanding the needs of different populations. that is why, for a long time now, there have been observations in parliament, in the committee on budgets and in other committees, which are in fact brought to the attention of the council, but which the council pretends not to see. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner's request is that point 3 and point 11 of this resolution be taken into account, so that the flexibility aspect is not seen as a request for the member states to be able to do whatever they want in order to have better guarantees of having answers, but as a request that changes are read with intelligence so that this instrument is really valid to the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the socialist and democratic group, after having witnessed with immense sorrow, just in the last few days in italy, around the city of genoa, in the liguria region, a long series of fires which have devastated large areas, i feel the urgency of europe's attention and intervention to prevent these unfortunately recurrent disasters. there shouldn't be recurring disasters. we should all work every day so that there are no more cyclical catastrophes. that is why i believe that only europe can and must intervene effectively with binding acts to preserve these precious areas which are threatened with being burnt to the ground every year and which are truly the heritage of all. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. intervention through prevention policies, through appropriate forestry policies - and by prevention i also mean intervention through a timely, precise and firm fight against all forms of speculation directly or indirectly linked to these disasters - but i also think by making access to the basic resources more widely, more easily and more quickly available to mitigate at least the devastating effects of these disasters. i am thinking above all of the solidarity fund, which should undoubtedly be a more rapidly deployable instrument for the affected areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in connection with the resolution tabled by the ppe on natural disasters, i would like to draw attention to a number of points which were discussed this evening but not in the resolution, which is the subject of my amendments. last summer, in addition to fires, there were other disasters, the latest of which was last weekend in southern italy. i myself come from a region in italy, veneto, which was hit by landslides and thunderstorms in june and july, and i mention, for example, vallà di riese, borca di cadore. we should also mention other natural disasters in the resolution - not just fires - because summer floods are unfortunately not a new phenomenon, they are one of the scenarios we will have to face in the future, as a consequence of climate change and global warming. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to prevent and control the occurrence of natural disasters. i think of invasions in mountain areas, in the range of respect, in rural and forested areas and waterways. secondly, since in most cases natural disasters are also caused by human behaviour, responsibility must be established, the culprits must be found and the penalties must be increased. finally, i would like to say that the idea of building this independent intervention force and the associated solidarity fund is a good one. it is important, however, to try to extend the intervention to other disasters, to increase the appropriation by concentrating various funds, to simplify procedures and to increase coordination and flexibility, as mr mauro has mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have appreciated the work of this period in which mrs ashton is carrying out her task as commissioner. i must say that we have had a better relationship than his predecessor, beyond the common political affiliation, which is also ours, and the common origin of nationality. but this time i do not feel as enthusiastic as the commissioner was about this, because too many times in these years the commission has come here, magnified some initiatives, but then it did not go like this. we are living in a particular moment, a major economic and financial crisis, which is also the result of the lack of reciprocity in the world - not only with the developing countries, which has its own logic, its own explanation - but with the new global actors, with the traditional global actors. i think it is too often that we do not hear from the commission, from its president and from the commissioners, the awareness of what initiatives need to be taken to help to revive european industry, to revive european manufacturing industry. it seems to me that this agreement - which is a positive agreement, and has extremely positive content - has more academic value, it is almost a school treatise, but it does not take account of reality. we export 30 billion to korea, only 20 billion dollars comes in the form of cars exported from korea to europe and one and a half billion dollars will be the indirect aid that will result for korean cars in europe, without taking textiles and other sectors into account. there is a gross disproportion which i believe should be identified and corrected before we start a free trade agreement which is a disadvantage to european industry: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information society, such as the creation of a european information society.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to vice-president barrot and minister billström. i have already put a question to the commission on 31 august. it is true that the number of migrants arriving on the italian and libyan coasts has decreased, but why has the number of deaths increased, which the mediterranean continues to receive? unfortunately, the mediterranean has now become an open-air cemetery and the berlusconi government, and therefore the italian government, has adopted an agreement with libya which unfortunately allows not only the return of migrants, but also the return of refugees from countries where there is persecution and civil war, such as somalia and eritrea, and denies these poor wretches the right to seek asylum, thus violating not only all international norms, but above all the geneva convention. i would remind myself that non-refoulement is a principle which knows no geographical limitation and which can in no way be bargained or negotiated. we do not want to continue to think that this agreement between italy and libya can be reduced to a thought of economic interest worth about 5 trillion euros. i urge the commission not to do - if that is their intention, the commission's intention - not to make an agreement between the european union and libya like the italian one, because we have seen what this vicious agreement has produced. this agreement, i repeat, has unfortunately inflicted, forces these people to suffer torture, because this is what is being said: the detention centers to which they are being returned to libya are apparently from news reports, but also from photographs - for example, the photographs that portray many of these immigrants in the canfuda prison ten kilometers from benghazi - these are tortures that i believe find no explanation in any friendship pact or institutional pact. as highlighted by unhcr, the principle of non-refoulement prohibits the return of persons to territories where their life may be considered to be in danger and where their freedom may be threatened. to bring these people back to libya, which i always remind myself, has not signed and ratified the geneva convention, seems really an incredible thing. the irony is that italy also has a criminal law against illegal immigration, for which these people - i am referring for example to the sensational disembarkation in the last days of august, where many somalis lost their lives - those few, i think 4 or 5 somalis who went out to reach their destination were, among other things, accused of immigration, so at this moment they are being prosecuted by italian law. i ask the commission now to take real action, to assess whether the italy-libya pact is in accordance with international law and to finally make a decisive turn by not supporting the italian government's vicious policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sincerely sorry that some of our italian colleagues have not missed the opportunity to repeat the usual polemic which has as its sole purpose an attack on the italian government. i believe that we should no longer make ideological use of immigration, but rather follow the guidelines set out in the european pact on immigration and asylum, which is based on the values of integration and solidarity. i really appreciate the efforts made by the commission in recent years, but commissioner barrot will agree with me that we need to accelerate the process of creating a genuine european strategy on immigration, with the uncompromising fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, human trafficking and exploitation as a priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of national quotas for the import of agricultural products. it is no longer acceptable to leave immigration as a problem to the mediterranean border countries alone. the recent commission proposal for a common programme of reintegration is a step forward in political and practical cooperation between member states, but a number of initiatives are urgently needed to develop more effective intra-community solidarity. that is why we expect the announcement made by the president-in-office of the european union to be implemented soon, and we welcome, among other things, a heartfelt appeal by minister franco frattini to open a debate to achieve a fair distribution of the burdens and responsibilities between the member states in relation to the flows of illegal immigrants and those seeking political assistance. i think that is the point, because otherwise we would be faced with the paradox that there are member states, including italy, malta, greece and spain, which have an obligation to take in refugees, and others who take refuge in the discretionary concept of solidarity on a voluntary basis. there's no way out! i thank france for its willingness to take in 100 people, 100 asylum seekers: there are hundreds, hundreds of people, but there are thousands, tens of thousands of asylum seekers. so thanks to france, but it's a drop in the bucket. i conclude by saying that we can no longer, by the way, think that immigration is the panacea. without a serious policy of development cooperation, in which europe must play a leading role, we shall condemn a part of the world to a certain and inevitable destiny of poverty and despair.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will say at the outset, and without any emphasis, that for me hospitality is a sacred value. it is ultimately about the solidarity between people that the communities of the state are born, which are regulated through some particular constraints: rights and duties. so, for me, anything that goes against this basic bible principle is decidedly against it. it is obvious that it is with the reception and also with the ways in which it is necessary to receive that the aspects of integration are also born, in a form of combined convergence. what do you do? how do we situate these people who are suffering from despair and who are coming to the states and how do we remove at the same time the kind of conflict that arises and sometimes takes the form of resentment and anger, anger, and this leads to some pretty disturbing forms of antagonism? and then again: the european parliament has been asked to take the initiative in this matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. it seems to me that europe, which has hitherto, most likely, been moving with a certain degree of uncertainty, can no longer put off defining a united and serious line on the issue of immigration. it cannot speak as it has spoken to so many different voices, it cannot force the individual states, the most exposed and vulnerable fronts, into solitude. it cannot deprive itself of a common position which has been worked out in a collegial manner and which has never been worked out in a collegial manner, but which is now being defended in its essential principles. it is not possible, mr president, not to see frontiers as a matter for the individual states rather than for the individual states. it cannot lend itself, as has happened in this house, to theatrical and domestic forms in the dispute over what the italian and other governments are doing. it seems to me that it is obviously impossible to think that the tragedies that have occurred off lampedusa, ceuta and melilla do not concern brussels, berlin and paris. the attention between individual states, europe is born from this and creates problems; and this also increases europe's democratic deficit, which can only be increased by the absence of a coordinated immigration policy. it is a fact that the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty for a long time. it is a frustrating perception, mr president, that in brussels and strasbourg we are dealing very often with the most abstruse matters and not with the issues that alarm public opinion. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. that is why i hope that the swedish presidency will initiate an agreement with the countries most likely to reason and to implement what has been lacking so far, namely this strong, calm, serious and strict common policy on immigration.
mr president, commissioner barrot, ladies and gentlemen, minister billström, we have called for this debate to draw the attention of the european union to the serious violation of the fundamental rights of individuals that is taking place in italy. since may, more than 1,000 migrants have been picked up at sea by italian authorities and handed over to libya in the course of informal and indiscriminate returns without identification, right of appeal, or access to asylum procedures, at risk of inhuman and degrading treatment in libya. as commissioner barrot confirmed when he asked italy for information, we believe that these practices violate the fundamental principles on which europe is founded. this type of action is incompatible with the european convention on human rights, community law, in particular the schengen borders code and the return directive, and italian law. yesterday the united nations called on italy to respect international law and yesterday 24 somali and eritrean refugees who were rejected by italy lodged an appeal with the strasbourg court against italy for breaching the european convention on human rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. the mere fact of being a migrant is a condition of discrimination, inequality, and determines for the same crime heavier penalties. being an irregular migrant, as families in our italian, portuguese, polish, greek, italian communities have been, prevents access to basic rights, to the most basic care, including health services, for fear of being reported. this is happening in italy, mr president, as has been denounced by jurists, constitutionalists and lay and catholic associations. how does the commission intend to put an end to these violations? this parliament has always been in favour of fighting illegal immigration, but with due respect for fundamental rights. we want to know, mr president, whether the commission intends to intervene in italian legislation, to verify the italian-libyan agreement. we cannot allow some governments to build new ones 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, in the last few days, when you presented the european asylum plan, you yourself, commissioner barrot, spoke of firmness against irregular immigration and of humanity in welcoming persecuted people. in legal terms, it means guaranteeing protection and the right of asylum to those fleeing hunger, war and persecution, and preventing their deportation to countries where their lives are at risk or where they are subjected to inhuman treatment. it is practically the opposite of what the italian government is doing, as the latest serious episode of the rejection of 75 immigrants from eritrea and somalia in libya shows, a rejection that took place without at least checking whether there were potential asylum seekers, as required by international law and as denounced yesterday by the un high commissioner for human rights. an agreement between italy and libya cannot turn that stretch of sea into a free zone where human rights are violated. i therefore call on the commission to take action as soon as possible to restore and enforce the rules of international law. i would also like to know what is the state of play of the negotiations on the bilateral agreement between the european union and libya, which have been under way for some years now? when do you expect to complete it? can the council and the commission confirm that this agreement would take precedence over the bilateral agreement between italy and libya? can you explain to this parliament the main points in the resolution on combating illegal immigration and on guarantees for the right of asylum and the principle of non-refoulement?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning it seemed that you were in the italian parliament with your presidency and so... i believe, however, that immigration means security and respect for human rights. unfortunately, however, globalisation and the opening up of the european union to 27 countries has happened too quickly and adequate countermeasures have not been taken to ensure that security and respect for human rights can be safeguarded. i heard the commission: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. what was said this morning is valid in a normal situation, but today - especially in italy - we are not in a normal situation. so i ask the commission to look more at tactics than strategy and to consider that this is a european problem in every sense of the word.
the italian presidency is certainly pro tempore, but the debate was far from a one-off, it was fortunately, let us say, wide-ranging and had contributions from many parts and from many sensitivities of the european union.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? first of all, i want to thank you for a very interesting debate. many valuable views have been expressed here today. i would like to mention the views of mr busuttil on enhanced cooperation with libya. i hope to be able to go there with commissioner barrot to develop cooperation, while continuing to work with turkey. i also agree with juan lópez aguilar, president of the libe committee, that one way of tackling illegal immigration is to open up legal immigration. it's a relief to the asylum system, among other things. the criminal networks that exploit people's desperation must be fought. the swedish presidency will organise a special conference in brussels on this and the fight against trafficking in human beings. it is the swedish presidency's absolute priority to try to reach an agreement on the asylum support office and to improve practical cooperation. we naturally hope for the support of the european parliament in this matter. i would like to say to mrs alfano that it is important that the acts adopted by the european council are respected and that all the member states implement them as decided. it is also important to involve the unhcr in our work to achieve the high quality we seek. i must also say that i agree with timothy kirkhope's assessment of the importance of separating asylum and labour immigration from each other. the conclusion of this reasoning is, of course, that the eu needs both a common european asylum system and better opportunities for legal labour immigration based on national needs, legal certainty and protection from wage dumping and social exploitation. we therefore need neither the policies of willy meyers, gerard battens or louis bonte. we need a sensible and thoughtful migration policy to improve the demographic structure of the eu and strengthen the economy and welfare. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all ships. there is no single solution to the migration problem. a package solution with several initiatives in different areas is required. increased cooperation with countries of origin and transit is particularly important. in particular, development cooperation with these countries must be stepped up to create stability, security and sustainability. the countries of origin and transit and the member states must also strengthen maritime rescue. in addition, the allocation of responsibilities for maritime rescue operations between the member states must be clarified. in addition, a common interpretation of the maritime safety acquis must be established on the basis of the right to international protection and the international law of the sea. finally, on behalf of myself and the presidency, i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to come here to the european parliament and share our views. it is important to emphasise that our strategy must be based on a number of different pillars and actions. i think this debate has clearly shown that. thank you so much! (applause) i would like to thank you.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this debate has shown, if need be, the scale of these migration problems. i would remind you that our approach must be balanced between the rejection of irregular immigration, which is often the work of smugglers and traffickers, the desire, in the context of the fight against irregular immigration, to promote a certain form of regular migration, the decision on which is up to the member states, and also the desire to preserve, in any event, the duty of asylum. i would like to reply very briefly to frontex, first of all, and to remind you that we are preparing a proposal to amend the frontex regulation and its working methods. i have noted the desire for greater transparency that has been expressed. on the other hand, we will also try to clarify the rules that must promote a consistent application of community and international law in frontex operations. as regards the italian problems, i should like to say that we sent a letter to the italian authorities in july asking for any useful information on the return of vessels intercepted in international waters. we have just received a reply from the italian authorities, which our services are studying in depth. i would add that community legislation requires member states to conduct border control operations in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement. this principle means that a state must refrain from returning people to a territory where they could be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. in the case of asylum seekers and refugees, deportation cannot take place where their lives, their freedom may be threatened because of their race, religion or nationality. in short, we ensure that this duty of protection is respected. finally, i would like to reiterate our concern, together with tobias billström, to engage in a genuine dialogue with libya on the one hand and turkey on the other, which would allow us to get to the bottom of things, to be able to obtain cooperation in border control against irregular migration, but also to see how, in these countries on the southern shore, we can, with the help of the high commissioner for refugees, try to initiate procedures which will enable genuine asylum seekers not to have to resort to smugglers or traffickers to reach european shores and to have their asylum applications identified in these countries. so that is, indeed, a major dialogue that is going to occupy this last quarter. i thank the swedish presidency for its willingness to cooperate so effectively. i would like to conclude by saying that we do indeed need a european strategy on migration. we feel that this solidarity must really become more active between all the member states. the member states are faced with the same problems. it must be said that, in the end, irregular immigration affects all member states, not just those on the peripheral borders. i think that solidarity really needs to be strengthened. we are proposing it on a voluntary basis, but this voluntary basis will probably have to be put into practice as a real answer to the problems. i'm not going to go into that. i took a lot of notes in the various speeches that were given. finally, i would like to ask the european parliament, with some insistence, to help us, particularly with this strategy, this european asylum policy. i will remind you - because it has been mentioned - that we wanted to improve the application of the dublin agreement by allowing a certain flexibility. we have asked the council and parliament to set up this support office before the end of the year, and we are also going to prepare for the harmonization of the investigation procedures. all this is a true european strategy for asylum, which i believe is in line with the values that, i believe, form the consensus in europe. these values are our values. we must put them into practice. in any case, thank you to the european parliament for helping us in this difficult task. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. illegal immigration is a real scourge that has been affecting the southern countries of the european union, particularly italy, malta and spain, for several years. it is well known that the italian government is hosting the largest number of illegal immigrants, mainly from africa, among all the member states of the european union, in desperate search of a better future. contrary to the claims of italian leftists who are using the european parliament building in an inappropriate way to launch unjustified attacks on the italian government, the first-aid centres provide medical care, food and accommodation, as well as legal assistance for as long as it takes to determine whether the illegal immigrant can remain in italy or whether, under international agreements, he should be sent back to his country. efficient community measures on immigration and asylum are urgently needed. it is not possible to seriously believe that italy can shoulder the full burden of a phenomenon destined to expand exponentially. some members have suggested the establishment of 'clandestine quotas'. these are good intentions which are unfortunately not backed up by any concrete political will: the swedish presidency has just recently stressed the difficulty of getting the quotas themselves accepted.
in writing. i agree with president buzek: "immigration has always brought benefits to europe", as it refers to regulated, integrated immigration that respects the institutions and laws of the country of destination. when social and professional exchange is necessary, when cultural exchange enriches peoples, immigration is a valuable resource. our judeo-christian roots offer us the vision of charity and hospitality to those who suffer. but when the underground creates emergency, discomfort, crime, insecurity, a concrete strategy of integration is needed, measured by the degree of demographic support of the countries. it is an optical illusion to believe that the problem is confined to the countries bordering the mediterranean: the free movement of citizens in the eu can only encourage the free movement of many illegal immigrants who have turned to crime. the interest of all european states is moral and direct, because it is linked to the problem of crime and the security of half a billion citizens who have given us a mandate to protect them with urgent and concrete action, both in relation to the problems already existing and those whose rapid evolution is foreseeable. citizens' rights cannot be traded for the general indifference of the member states or for the solemn warnings of the european commission.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i renew my congratulations on your appointment. i have appreciated your speech, your programme, and i wanted to focus on what i believe is the most important or should be the most important aspect for us as members of parliament, namely legislative activity. these activities of dialogue with the great powers are fine, the missions are fine, but a parliament - at least in my opinion - has the main task of making laws, of making rules, because we were elected primarily for this task, with this mandate; one of the problems is that we lack - because the founding fathers and those who have succeeded them have denied us - the right of legislative initiative. we are constantly voting resolutions, we are signing written declarations which have not been followed up because the commission does not implement them. president barroso said that this was right because otherwise, if the commission accepted the legislative proposals made by parliament through written declarations and resolutions, it would be in breach of the treaties which do not allow this. i would like to point out that i find this interpretation to be very sensible: the treaties do not explicitly provide for this, but they do not deny it either. i should like to remind you that when parliament asks for something, when parliament asks for a legislative initiative, it asks for it on behalf of millions of european citizens, the majority of millions of european citizens, because both written statements and resolutions must have a majority in order to be accepted. i am therefore convinced that you, mr president, will work with the commission to ensure that the proposals put forward by us as members of parliament become the union's standards, in accordance with the wishes of our electorate. it is a difficult task, but i am sure you will be able to handle it.
president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission and on my own behalf, i want sincerely to congratulate you once again and wish you all the best in your term of office. your election symbolises not only the reunification of europe, but also a europe that is very much attached to the central values of freedom and solidarity. personally and institutionally i want to commit to close cooperation with you and with the european parliament. parliament and the commission are the two community institutions par excellence at the heart of community matters. you and all the members of this parliament have been directly elected by our citizens and the commission has the right and the duty to put european interests above any particular interest. i believe that we have a special responsibility for the european project in full respect of the treaties. that is why i want to reiterate my willingness to work together to advance european parliamentary democracy. (applause)
mr president, i very much appreciated your speech and especially your passage on the institutional but also social role of this parliament, which you described as the fundamental essence of the european democratic system. today we celebrate a europe of 27 that is coming together and coming together after the divisions caused by the ideologies of terror that have erected walls in our continent, walls that have no foundation and that have fallen under the wind of democracy and freedom. this year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the first universal suffrage election of this parliament and also the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. i would like to remind you, mr president, that when my parents voted for the first time 30 years ago to elect the first italian members of the european parliament, there was no voting right in your country. in 1979, just one year after karol wojtyla was elected supreme pontiff of the catholic church, while italy and other countries were voting to elect the first european parliament, you were involved in a then semi-clandestine trade union, solidarność, which was fighting to bring democracy and freedom to your country. to assert the same rights: we voted for democracy and freedom, but she risked her life every day to resist repression. i am therefore honoured, mr president buzek, to have contributed my small and perhaps not decisive vote to your election, and i am happy that different stories, animated by the same values and ideals, are meeting and being ennobled in this parliament today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i think that question should have been asked at another time of the day, when we are discussing president barroso's report, not now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to convey to you, mr buzek, the pride i feel at this moment in belonging to an important institution such as the european parliament, of which you are president. i believe that the sacrifices she made in her own country 20 years ago, and which today are represented by the 12 countries mentioned earlier in this assembly, give europe strength. i would like to express my concern, however, that your programme should be included in your speech, which should, and i hope will, give strength to this parliament. i hope what he has announced will come true. i hope that the next president of the european commission, certainly president barroso, will listen to her for the strong words she has spoken to ensure that this parliament gives answers to the more than 550 million citizens who voted for us in this europe, who wanted us and want us and demand from this parliament and from all of us the answers that perhaps europe has certainly tried to give but has not entirely succeeded in giving. i have high hopes for her and i am sure that we will be able to achieve the certainty she has promised us.
i would like to thank you, mr president, also for your punctuality, with which you have responded to all the speeches, including all the others. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr candidate for the presidency of the european commission, the italian delegation to the european people's party will support you with the same esteem, friendship and loyalty as always. we are asking for more courage, however, to enable our institutions to face the epochal circumstances we are called upon to live in, taking into account not only the legitimate concerns of governments but, above all, the needs of the younger generation, their anxiety to build a home, to start a family, to have children. the courage to fight for a real europe, one that is sustained by our sense of responsibility and not by our political alchemy; i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the new barroso may well be a temporary solution to the crisis of consensus that can easily be detected by the results of the elections. but a yes, a yes, even a conditional yes to the candidate for president of the commission, would also be an opportunity for you to participate in this difficult moment, sending a clear signal to the whole of european public opinion that what unites us is stronger than what divides us and that only in this way can we help each other to get out of the rut, together. it is not just a yes to barroso, but a yes to a simple and clear recipe: the commission's role is to ensure that the member states are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's objectives are met.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, your speech today has not changed our opinion. our assessment remains strongly negative. in these years of presidency the commission has shown its inability and lack of autonomy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have said in this house that you intend to appoint a commissioner for justice and human rights and a commissioner for home affairs and immigration. do not do that, president barroso: immigration and rights must go hand in hand to avoid xenophobic policies. you have a majority in this parliament, you have a right-wing majority, and it is clear that we cannot identify with that majority. i understand the difficulties of the liberal democrats, but president verhofstadt; i would like to ask you, mr president, to tell us that the consistent approach you have called for to get out of the crisis is the speed with which the barroso commission is moving. it is clear that we cannot identify with this majority. our positions are not compatible with those who do not fight with determination for full and convinced freedom of information, with those who do not fight for the safeguarding of rights, with those who think that this parliament is only a seat of representation for national governments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president barroso, after this debate i am more than happy to announce my support for the proposal of the european people's party to support your candidacy and as chairman of the committee on petitions i would like to offer my modest contribution: president barroso, i agree with your objectives and also with the priorities you have set, but i would suggest that you pay attention to two additional points, in particular to what you call the overcoming of the financial and economic crisis. i believe, as you do, that this is a crisis also and above all of our values, the values that are the foundation of our society. the european commission will face major challenges over the next five years. the geopolitical picture has changed profoundly. the emerging countries, the emerging economies like india, brazil, africa, now occupy a significant place in the real economy, and this, if on the one hand, offers new opportunities for growth, on the other hand, opens us to the risk of market hegemony which in the long run could introduce new poverty. in this context, europe's role, its civilization, its wisdom, is a fundamental role in promoting balanced and widespread growth, in promoting the achievement of civil rights. it is a true work of integration between different roots and cultures. i am referring to our roots, our christian roots, which can be the instrument for dealing with the value matrix of this very serious crisis, but only if we take these roots as a guide in promoting development, the integration of the rights and duties of everyone. on the financial side, mr president, i believe we must also consider the need to innovate monetary and fiscal policy in order to defuse the struggle between our currency, the euro, and the old hegemony of the dollar, as well as the struggle with the emerging currencies of china or india, to achieve stricter regulation of the financial market with the accompanying prohibitions on betting on energy commodities and especially on food commodities, the prices of which can starve many economies, to bring finance back to the predominant role of serving production and to replace or supplement the traditional economic contributions of fiscal incentives in depressed european regions. and i feel personally involved in the citizens' europe which you are seeking to advance by intensifying dialogue and disseminating information, as chairman of the committee on petitions. that is what this committee should be called if parliament is to follow up the resolution adopted in the previous parliament. the committee on petitions is the first point of contact between the european institutions and citizens. it is concerned with finding solutions, explaining and promoting action in relation to the many and varied complaints made by european citizens. in this connection, mr president, i would ask you to intensify the relations between the commission which you have the honour of chairing and the committee which i chair, the committee on petitions, by assigning a commissioner to it. you announced the appointment of two other commissioners. a europe which, as you say, centers its work programme on the citizen is a europe which must give this commission the space and the place where the rights of the citizen, greater rights and greater dignity, have a voice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my question was intended to emphasize one point, namely that the increase in the overall population is having consequences both for the use of raw materials and for pollution. but in developing countries this population increase is particularly important, with social and economic consequences. my question is this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what confidence can the people have in a regulation of the financial markets entrusted to the priests of the globalist financial temples like draghi? there is a popular uprising in america, a new conservative revolution of the people against the financial oligarchy. we the people do not believe in the policies of financial rescue at the expense of the taxpayers, in america as in europe! the european governments should rather give adequate resources to the real economy, and concern themselves with production and employment! we are seeing the results of the g20, more than just a ceiling and bonuses, more than just the elimination of tax havens! the interventions are aimed only at rescuing those responsible for the financial bubble: the european union has already spent 23 trillion, of which 5 trillion was spent by the european central bank. the money of our economy given away to the people responsible for the financial bubbles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the reality is that high finance commands and politics obeys. as in the us so in europe, politicians appear only as servants of the globalist banking power! europe is awake! follow the example of the american people who are starting a second great revolution: the conservative revolution of the people!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after my speech i shall say a few words in neapolitan (not included in this document, as neapolitan is not an official language). not for folklore reasons, but to bring political and media attention to our emergencies: the emergencies in southern italy. president barroso, i voted for you also because i hope that you will be the president of the whole of europe, including southern italy. the south is the gateway to europe, situated in the centre of the mediterranean and a link between different worlds. it can play an important role for the whole of the old continent, because of its history, its geographical location and its culture of hospitality. the south of italy must be accorded the same dignity as other european regions, and now that europe is facing difficulties, it must act with the same energy as when it legalised 150 million citizens from the east who became community citizens. this was not a cost-free operation and if a worker in gdansk today earns 28 times more than he did before, it is also due to the economic effort of italy and southern italy. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tajikistan is a word that is seldom spoken in this house and so we welcome it. i say this on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe and also as a member of the committee on international trade in the delegation for the countries of central asia. we welcome this agreement. i also welcome this decision to proceed rapidly with the development of our representative offices in the region, as the commissioner has just reminded us. moreover, tajikistan, which may surprise us, but which is often described as an outpost of europe, is not a periphery of the world - as are not the other countries of central asia, afghanistan in particular - it is in this territory that very important battles are being fought for the trafficking of drugs, for the fight against authoritarianism and against fundamentalism and for the affirmation of the rule of law and democracy, which are unfortunately still very weak. with this regulatory instrument we will be able to make progress, not only from a commercial point of view, but also, i hope, from a political and cultural point of view.
madam president, i am very much in favour of this agreement. i believe it is a big step forward in the cooperation between the european union and tajikistan, which is a very important country for several reasons. i just want to quote one contribution to the stability and security of our continent of the eu. tajikistan is at the crossroads of drug trafficking from afghanistan to europe and russia. at least 30% of the heroin produced in afghanistan comes to europe and russia through tajikistan. ten years ago the international community started a big operation in tajikistan, strengthening all the drug control apparatus, and i am very happy to see, ten years later, that it is working and that it is going ahead very well. this agreement is a direct contribution to the stability and security of europe. i see there are still many limitations and colleagues underlined the problems in tajikistan in terms of human rights, poverty and so on. but i believe this agreement is europe at its best and i am very much in favour of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too think that this cooperation agreement with tajikistan is a very positive one and can help to achieve certain objectives which i believe are important and precise. firstly, the first objective concerns the country's strategic position, which can really be useful in fostering an area of peace, security and stability. the second objective, i believe, is and must be to promote economic and social growth in that country, because we know that it is one of the poorest countries in the region. finally, we should ensure that freedom, democracy and rights are the fundamental elements that guide the implementation of this agreement. i believe that we must welcome what we are voting for in this house, whatever the limits that may be found.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? as rapporteur alojz peterle says in his excellent report, the partnership and cooperation agreement is part of a larger strategy to increase regional stability in central asia. it is natural that we should take this big step because the problems are so many, so wide-ranging and affect so many countries. this is particularly true of afghanistan and pakistan, but each country also has its own specific problems. all this is very systematically dealt with in the peterle report. i am glad that the european parliament is still holding the banner high on human rights. human rights are a problem in tajikistan. there is still much to be done in the country in respect of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. that is why it is so valuable, as the commissioner says, that we have this dialogue on human rights. i am sure that the commission will be very clear at next week's meeting on european values and what we expect from tajikistan. the eu supported a conference this summer on strengthening the rule of law in tajikistan. the conference was attended by representatives of the research community, civil society, ngos and foreign experts, as well as many representatives of tajikistan's own authorities. it is about increasing the independence of law enforcement authorities and strengthening the rule of law. heidi hautala raised the issue of water. it's very important in the region. the eu supports a number of sustainable development projects for hydropower. these projects shall be based on scientific studies, have a regional perspective and take into account the specific needs of the region. janusz zemke mentioned the question of border control, which is a very important question. the eu's support to the region amounts to eur 66 million until 2010 and eur 70 million over the next three years. there should be room here to strengthen both the governance, management and training of customs and police. i am sure the commission will come back to this. in conclusion, there are very difficult and complex problems in tajikistan and in the region as a whole. we see some hopeful lights in the tunnel, but we shouldn't underestimate the problems. i am very pleased with the unanimity in this house on the importance of taking this step with the partnership and cooperation agreement. it gives us a better instrument to work for greater stability and solutions to these problems and to have an active dialogue with the country on human rights and democracy. it is an important step forward and it fills a gap that has existed in the regional strategy.
member of the commission. − madam president, we have firmly believed for a long time that an eu-central asia strategy is vitally important and will have a positive effect on security, stability and prosperity in the countries of central asia. as mr tannock rightly said, we should not marginalise tajikistan. on the contrary, i think we should engage with this poorest country of central asia. having said this, yes of course we are also fully aware that there are huge challenges for this country. i think it was mr arlacchi who mentioned that afghanistan remains the first opiate- and heroin-producing country in the world and of course the whole transit takes place through tajikistan and through other central asian countries. afghan opium and heroin are being trafficked out of the country, mainly through iran and pakistan on the southern routes and through turkmenistan, uzbekistan, tajikistan and kazakhstan on the northern routes. so we know that this is an extremely important issue. but we also see that drug production has decreased in afghanistan and now it is really a matter of working together in order to make this decrease still further. for that we have introduced bomka, the border management programme. that is excellent because it works against smuggling; it is helping these countries to trade legally; but in particular it is also working against drug production. i have visited those institutions myself and i can tell you they are working very well. we are also organising training. training is among the european union programmes. let me say a second word on the human rights question. the new partnership and cooperation agreement will provide us with an instrument to deepen our dialogue with tajikistan in this field, and there is the human rights clause. this will give us the opportunity and the means for discussing with the tajik authorities all related issues, such as child labour, women’s rights, freedom of assembly and religious freedom – absolutely, mr belder, because there are still some problems. water has also been mentioned. i have known about these problems for very many years. we have tried to help the tajiks and now we play the role of facilitator among central asian countries. we are convinced that it has to be tackled at regional level, taking countries’ interests and needs into account – both upstream, which means tajikistan and kurdistan, and downstream, which means uzbekistan, turkmenistan and kazakhstan. i think only in this context can a permanent solution be found. therefore we are working with all the countries and in this context a national policy dialogue on water is scheduled for 2010 – next year – in which all these issues will be addressed, and then of course we will try and come to terms. my final remarks: the time is right to support the final stage of the ratification process for the partnership and cooperation agreement. more intense cooperation with tajikistan, supported by you, by parliament, is in the interests of our citizens. a positive vote will send a strong signal to tajikistan that the european union honours its commitments under our central asia strategy. it will pave the way for a partnership essential to our own security and help us encourage greater regional cooperation, so vital for the stability of central asia.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the new visa rules for the countries of the western balkans (the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some areas of the balkans are still today unstable and illegal trafficking routes are under the control of organized crime. trafficking in human beings is particularly serious, often involving exploitation through black labour or prostitution. visa liberalisation must therefore be accompanied by strict application of security rules, one of which is the introduction of biometric passports. albania and bosnia-herzegovina have apparently not yet fully implemented these technical measures. it is therefore essential that visa liberalisation does not take place in respect of these two countries until there is full cooperation by the governments and the implementation of technical measures to ensure the identity of the persons concerned. in my opinion, lack of qualifications does not constitute discrimination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i am in favour of liberalization and european integration until we have completed the mosaic of the western balkans, because it has been said that we need a stable balkans first. so this integration is essential and must come as soon as possible. however, yesterday when we were talking about immigration - which meant security and human rights - we have to be very careful because i think that the checks must be carried out to the end and not relaxed. the timing must be commensurate with these checks, accelerated if possible. then i notice that there is a hole in this area, where we have heard very little, and it is the kosovo hole. you will understand that the passage between kosovo and macedonia for other countries is quite easy. i know that there is a report in progress which will tell us something in a few days, but tell us more about kosovo tonight.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? there is no doubt that visa liberalisation is of the utmost importance to the people of the balkans. i have, like you, met many frustrated people, especially young people, who cannot travel freely in europe, cannot see their friends, cannot enjoy the freedoms that we all enjoy. obviously, achieving visa-free travel for these people would be good for them, for their countries, for the whole region and for the eu. i am therefore very pleased that today the conditions are in place so that we can give that opportunity to the three countries concerned, namely the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia, already at the end of the year. i regret that not all the countries of the western balkans are included in the proposal today, but there can be no doubt that the swedish presidency is extremely keen to strengthen the process of integration and eventually the enlargement process in the balkan region. those of you who know me know how deeply involved i am in this matter. but if that commitment is to be real and credible, we must protect the terms. we must do so to protect the people of the western balkans and for the sake of our citizens. we must ensure that the criteria set are respected. we cannot give a discount on foreign policy just to be nice, as manfred weber said. this applies to both visas and membership. i know that the people of albania and bosnia and herzegovina are disappointed. i can see that. but they are not forgotten. we will do our utmost to help them and make visa-free travel possible, including technically. we must be clear about giving a political signal that they have the opportunity to participate. we're already doing that today. but it is the authorities and politicians in these countries who have to do the final job. i do not think that a time difference between the first three countries and albania and bosnia and herzegovina will create instability. on the contrary, it shows that the eu stands by its word and that if you do your job, we will deliver on our promises. we're gonna support them, and we're gonna help them. i believe it is possible for them to get a positive report from the commission in 2010. that is what commissioner barrot has said. as for kosovo, visa discussions started when kosovo was still part of serbia, but we are working on a solution. i hope that the commission will indicate ways forward in its report so that in the long term we can achieve visa liberalisation also for the people of kosovo. the proposed visa liberalisation for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia is a very important first step. i hope you can help us take it. i also hope that very soon we can take the next step for the rest of the region.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would first like to point out that this approach is very innovative. this is the first time we've really had a regional approach. i would add that this road map method is based on very objective, very precise criteria, which also serve to stimulate these future member states to become aware that we have a europe of rules, a europe of values. i'm a little bit of a pusher on this point. it is not surprising that the commission is particularly attentive to everything that contributes to the fight against trafficking in human beings and against corruption. this is important, this europe of values. we must be very careful about that. i do not know if some of you have understood me correctly, but i have made it clear that we hope to make proposals for bosnia-herzegovina and albania in 2010. so there is a process going on here, which is not aimed at discriminating against anyone. we simply want the objective criteria of the road map to be better and better observed. it is true that in the case of albania, the issuing of biometric passports still needs to be improved. i myself went to albania to hand over the first biometric passport in that country and i can tell you that i gave all possible encouragement to albania, its politicians and those in bosnia-herzegovina to take the measure of the efforts to be made. we help them, for example, to establish civil registries, because you can try to give biometric passports, if there is no civil registry, it is not possible. so we're helping them with the technical side. it is clear that in all this, albania in particular must apply the existing framework for the fight against organised crime and corruption. in bosnia-herzegovina, there must also be good border management and closer cooperation between police agencies. that's what we want. i think we have every reason to hope that in 2010 these two countries will also benefit from visa-free travel. i would also like to say very simply that we are not concerned with ethnic or religious discrimination. we have a large muslim minority in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. there is no question of discriminating against the 25 or 30 per cent of muslim albanians in macedonia. i would therefore like to reassure you that we are moving forward in a process which we wanted and which the council was happy to accept. i'll also answer you about kosovo. in march 2009, a commission-funded expert mission produced positive findings. it is true that the commission also encourages the member states to establish effective consular practices in pristina. i confirm that we will have a report, which will be tabled shortly, on the exact situation in kosovo. it is clear that we want to open up this european perspective to all the balkans, and we are thinking in particular of the younger generation. both of you have made a great deal of the point that much easier travel and trade with the other member states of europe is obviously very beneficial. this is how we will once again build a europe of rules and a europe of values, which we are committed to, dear friends. i would simply say that we are on the right track, but obviously two states still need to make the last necessary efforts. i hope that in 2010 they too will be able to see the visa abolition. i can assure you that the commission's approach is an objective one, that it is very careful and not at all discriminatory, but cooperative. i'm very committed to it personally.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the council on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, by sophia in 't veld, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, leonidas donskis, gianni vattimo, sarah ludford, ulrike lunacek, raül romeva i rueda, jean lambert, judith sargentini, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe and the green group/european liberal alliance (o-0079/2009 - b7-0201/2009), - the oral question to the commission on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, by sophia in 't veld, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, leonidas donskis, gianni vattimo, sarah ludford, ulrike lunacek, raül romeva i rueda, jean lambert, judith sargentini, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe and the green group/european liberal alliance (o-0080/2009 - b7-0202/2009), - the oral question to the council on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the negative effects of public information, by rui tavares, cornelia ernst, cornelis de jong, marie-christine vergiat, willy meyer, kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left (o-0081/2009 - b7-0204/2009), - the oral question to the commission on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, by rui tavares, cornelia ernst, cornelis de jong, marie-christine vergiat, willy meyer, kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o-0082/2009 - b7-0205/2009),- the oral question to the council on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, by michael cashman, claude moraes, emine bozkurt, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-0083/2009 - b7-0206/2009),- the oral question to the commission on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, by claude emine, michael cashman, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-0084/2009 - b7-0209).
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i think it is very clear what the three institutions think in this debate. respect for human rights, tolerance, the inviolability of the individual and the prohibition of discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation, are fundamental values of european cooperation and must be so. member states have an obligation to respect both the values and the actual laws that apply in these areas within the eu. the presidency is concerned about the law in question, but we know that it is the subject of debate and criticism in lithuania. as mentioned here, president grybauskaite who has a background as a commissioner and is well informed about the values and laws of the eu has himself initiated a process to review this law and make it compatible with eu legislation. i am very glad that the commission was so clear about what will happen if the law, contrary to what is supposed, does come into force in its original form.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i fully agree with the minister's conclusions. i simply hope that the working party set up by mrs grybauskaite will be able to avoid a law which would, in some respects, be at odds with european law. i would like to emphasize one point: we were concerned that certain provisions of the law were contrary to certain directives, on audiovisual services and on electronic commerce. we do not have to decide on family law, which is a matter for the member states. however, everything that has been said before and during the debate shows that perhaps a better assessment of the situation is needed at national level, in this case in lithuania.
at the end of this debate i have received five motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 115 of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 17 september 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. my opinion on the motion for a resolution on the protection of minors in lithuania is intended to express a very serious institutional concern. individual members of parliament or political groups often want to deal with questions which concern the internal politics of individual states: that doesn't sound right. in this case, the aim is to get the european parliament to express a substantially negative opinion on a lithuanian law, the full content of which is not known, which has a shared intention to protect minors by surreptitiously imposing a view which is left to the discretion of individual states, as the european court of human rights has repeatedly established. the principle of equality is out of the question and no one intends to question the dignity of people with particular sexual orientations. my reservation is institutional in nature because it concerns relations between the european union and individual member states.
president-in-office of the council. − i am very happy at this news. i think it is an important step that those two countries sit down and discuss, as you say, important issues for mankind, and we can but hope that they move forward in a concrete way. there is a global nuclear summit in march 2010 where the eu will be present, of course, as well. this is also a good opportunity, in the light of that, to coordinate our views and to see how we can contribute to make these discussions as successful and fruitful as possible.
author of the book. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the dairy sector is going through one of the most serious and profound phases of the last decades: the fall in milk prices and the more general emergency in the milk market have now become a source of concern throughout europe; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not affected by the crisis. milk prices have fallen everywhere, reaching an average of 24 cents a litre in the european union. the situation of many economic operators is even more dire, with prices below 21-20 cents against economic costs of no less than 40 cents per litre. alarming signs are also emerging in other markets, such as cereals, olive oil and fruit and vegetables. on this front, first of all, we must continue to make use of all the measures at our disposal to stabilize the market and stimulate consumption, but at the same time we must be able to look to the future with medium- and long-term policies and do everything possible to identify common and lasting solutions, which will minimize the risk of price fluctuations. in this context, the commission's proposals to extend the intervention period for butter and skimmed milk powder were welcomed and supported by the committee on agriculture, as the unanimous vote of 2 september demonstrated. we believe, however, that these proposals are insufficient to stem the serious consequences of the crisis in the sector. that is why, as part of the approval of the european commission's proposal, the committee on agriculture adopted an amendment to my report which also reintroduces the aid for private storage of cheeses, which was abolished in the context of the health check on the community's agricultural policy in november 2008. a unanimous decision, mr president, madam commissioner, which shows that the members of the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, share the same views and express the desire to send a strong signal to the council and the commission at a delicate time for a sector of great importance to european agriculture. this is not only the first major demonstration of the positive role which we as the european parliament want to play in the process of codecision, also in the agricultural sector, but it can also provide immediate answers to the needs of milk producers faced with an increasingly difficult market and a dramatic drop in sales. however, these first measures, on which we shall be speaking today, are not sufficient to support producers in crisis and that is why the committee on agriculture, in an oral question and a resolution which we are about to vote on, is calling on the european commission to take new and effective measures to combat the crisis and to support the sector. we want to urge and at the same time support the european commission in the process of defining the choices necessary to resolve the european dairy crisis once and for all. we hope that the commission will give a full answer to our questions and take our proposals seriously, so that interinstitutional cooperation can bear the fruit that european agriculture deserves and show solidarity and practical support to european farmers in crisis who today are asking for our help.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my doubts about the proposal to extend the 2009-2010 intervention period for butter and skimmed milk powder, as this proposal risks turning short-term measures, which are necessary in the context of the current market crisis, into structural measures which would in fact return the milk market to the pre-quota situation. in order to give a better balance to market measures, not only benefiting the member states concerned by the production of butter and skimmed milk powder, i call for the reintroduction of community aid for the private storage of long-aged cheeses. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the issue of indication of origin and labelling of dairy products and the traceability of products: this is a demand that is coming directly from european consumers in an increasing way and that would help us to deal with the crisis in the dairy sector. i hope that the other groups will support this proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank members of parliament for this very dedicated debate. i have actually listened very carefully. but of course i have also noted the different views that i have heard among the different members of this parliament. as regards the quota system; it seems to be the scapegoat of this whole situation in which we find ourselves. i do not underestimate – and i have been very precise on this since the very beginning of the discussion – that the dairy sector, not only in europe but globally, finds itself in an unprecedented crisis. that must be very clear. so i certainly do understand the frustration that i see among farmers in different parts of europe, not all over, but in different parts of europe. the abolition of the quota system was decided back in 2003 so it is not a decision that was taken overnight while nobody knew what was happening. then, in the health check, we had the discussion on increasing the quotas to try to find a soft landing for the dairy farmers. but i think that those who want to point their finger at the quota system for being the reason for all the problems in which dairy farmers find themselves are wrong. because we see that even with a quota system in place, we have not been able to maintain high prices and the structural changes in the dairy sector have taken place anyway. if you look at 1984, when the quota system was introduced, we had 1.6 million dairy farmers in the old eu-10. today in eu-10 we have 300 000 dairy farmers: less than one fifth of the number of dairy farmers today compared to 1984 with a quota system in place. so these structural changes are taking place anyway. i do not think that going back or rolling back the decision in the health check is the right policy, and here i am supported by all heads of state saying clearly in their decisions from the meeting in june that i have to stick to the decisions from the health check. i have never, ever, during the health check discussions, signalled any openness to roll back these decisions because that would certainly jeopardise predictability for farmers within the european union. but, josé bové, i think you said i had not been acting with preciseness; that is, the laissez-faire attitude. i do not think it is fair to say that we have been doing nothing. i am not going to repeat all the different measures that we have been taking. i think that, if member states want to pay specific attention to the dairy sector, they now have the possibility with the health check to reallocate the direct payments so they give a special preference to the grassland areas. that is a possibility and i know that at least one big member state has taken the opportunity to use this possibility, and for the mountainous areas there are lots of different possibilities. we have production in europe today that is 45% below quota, so what would happen if we actually wanted to cut quota by 5%? we would actually damage the situation for the young farmers that have invested in the future. therefore, i would recommend to those countries, those member states, who really want to help their dairy sector that they use this buy-up of quotas from those who want to leave the dairy sector. that is a much better way of securing the maintenance of those who have invested while giving a helping hand to those that want to leave the sector. that is i think the right policy. could i then just correct the misunderstanding on the super levy? we are not introducing a new super levy system. we are just giving the possibility that, if member states are buying up quotas from farmers, they can reduce the number of kilos or tonnes from their ceiling, but it is not a new super levy that will punish any of the farmers. just on some of the promotion. we have already reserved eur 14 million for promotion for the rest of this year. we have agreed on extending the school milk scheme; yogurt that is low in sugar – that is, containing no more than 7% sugar – will now be introduced into the school milk scheme. labelling – i hear from different members of parliament that there is interest in a labelling system. let us discuss that in the context of the quality paper that is actually on the table at the moment. so i think there are lots of possibilities. then, finally, on the food chain, i completely agree with you that that there is no transparency in this chain and we cannot see where the added value is disappearing. therefore, i am looking forward to the presenting of this report before the end of the year so we can see what the situation actually looks like. i must say that, if you look at the supermarket situation all over europe, there are huge differences. germany has a tradition or number of discount supermarkets. these supermarkets are using dairy or milk products, drinking milk as a produit d'appel to get the consumers in, and they are offering a very low price but they are just handing over the bill to the farmers, paying them the low price. so, i think it would be very interesting and necessary to see what is actually happening in this chain, so let us get this transparency on the table and let us, internally in the commission, but also in member states’ competition authorities, look into the market. it has been a very interesting discussion here today. i hope that you have noticed the short-term measures and the long-term measures that have been worked out together with france and germany. i am sure that we will have some very interesting discussions on the future of the dairy sector in europe because we all want our dairy sector to have a future.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission for coming to parliament today to present new proposals on the crisis in the milk sector. it is important that the legislative period which has just begun be characterized by a positive interinstitutional dialogue between the commission and parliament, which has in fact already started the codecision process. we will assess, madam commissioner, we will assess your new proposals very carefully and i will ask the committee on agriculture to give an opinion on your new hypotheses as soon as possible. but let me conclude by saying that if the amendment adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture is also adopted today by the house in plenary, it will become a political problem if the council, after ratification in lisbon, rejects it. and so i invite you, as i invite the council, to give it serious consideration.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know for a fact that energy demand will increase and that european gas production is steadily declining. it is essential for the member states, and therefore for europe, to implement policies of abundant and secure supply. the diversification of transport sources and networks meets this need. in the light of this premise, there is no competition between the different projects under construction, such as nabucco and southstream. these differentiation policies have, however, led to a decrease in europe's dependence on major suppliers in recent years. for example, russian gas supplies to europe have risen from 75% in 1990 to 45% today. so the nabucco project is good and the southstream project is good. as long as europe does not have a common and single energy policy, italy has not only the right but the duty to provide in every way, from energy saving to nuclear... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with commissioner piebalgs. its recent statements confirm that southstream is not a competitor to nabucco but a further contribution to the diversification of europe's energy supply sources. european energy security is based on a variety of sources, routes and countries of supply. future demand is estimated to grow by 100 to 150 billion m3 of additional gas from now to 2020. in view of these considerations, the development of various options is a necessity and southstream is not an alternative to nabucco but an addition. the commission considers the southern corridor as a set of projects including nabucco, southstream and the turkey, greece, italy (itg) interconnection. the anti-russian polemic is therefore in contradiction with what we shall see in the coming years. it is important that the european parliament should call for pragmatism and above all for consistency in the choices that the european union has already made: the european economic recovery plan, decision 1364/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2006 laying down guidelines for trans-european networks in the field of energy and the second energy security strategy. the diversification of sources, routes and countries of supply is the real pillar of europe's energy security policy and the southstream-nabucco challenge, beyond the political and economic interests of the various countries most directly involved, must be analysed realistically, without the distorting lenses of ideology but rather with a clear vision of what needs to be done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security is certainly a key priority which must be improved by first of all strengthening energy efficiency, diversifying suppliers, sources and supply routes, but above all by promoting the union's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries. now the european council in march has declared that in order to achieve the objectives of energy security the european union collectively, but also each of the member states, must be prepared to combine solidarity and responsibility. that, in my view, is the key point: the european energy policy must be inextricably linked to the union's foreign policy, because if we keep repeating that our foreign policy action will be really effective when we speak with one voice, this is just as true for energy policy. but that 's the point . until then, that is until we are able to speak with one voice, the efforts of many governments who have been involved in complex operations such as nordstream and southstream, should be seen not as contradictory to support for nabucco but as part of the same strategy in which pragmatism and realism must be side by side in order to support the interests of our citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supplies are not reduced to a mere mere mere mere barrel of oil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to call the house to silence because we have received news from kabul of a very serious attack against the international peacekeeping force and the fragmentary reports they have so far speak of six deaths in the italian contingent among the paratroopers of the folgore. i therefore ask you to call the house to a minute's silence in the memory of those who are fighting for our ideals of peace and freedom to be established throughout the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these days there is a sacrosanct protest being made throughout europe by milk producers against prices and the lack of action by the european union to allow, not in the future but immediately, the labelling, especially of fake milk products. we want fresh products on the tables of our consumers, products whose origin we can know, not the filth that comes to us from other countries: smuggled milk powder from fresh milk from our own production. from tomorrow, in padania, milk will be poured, as in the rest of europe and it is an important protest, because it supports the quality of our products. in europe we want to eat healthy products, from our own territory: the good fresh milk, the milk i drink, of course. we in padua drink to the sacrifice of our producers, which this europe must defend. the european commission has excluded long-keeping cheeses from the measures, protecting only milk powder producers. it's a disgrace!
in writing. - the serious crisis in the dairy sector is putting the very survival of the dairy industry at risk, and i therefore believe it appropriate to maintain a position opposing the individual management of quotas, since this would in fact lead to the overrun of end-of-period compensation operations, a mechanism which is fundamental for italian production; i am in favour of a temporary increase in the intervention price, of initiatives and actions aimed at balancing the supply chain and at strengthening consumer information and the importance of labelling the origin of milk and milk products. in particular, in order to restore the balance between supply and demand, the proposal to temporarily freeze part of the quotas allocated to individual countries and to provide for a compensation mechanism for producers who are forced to slaughter part of the herd in relation to the percentage of the frozen milk quota should be supported.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to my condolences and solidarity with the people of taiwan, i would like to stress the timeliness of the european union's humanitarian commitment to this catastrophe. the commission has done its part and many member states have sent aid or teams of experts. the people's republic of china itself has helped the taiwanese authorities and this is a gesture which i consider very significant. but if we want to help the taiwanese authorities and the countries in the area in a structural way in the future to deal with such threats, the european union should support taiwan's admission as an observer to the world meteorological organization and the united nations framework convention on climate change. the accession of taiwan as an observer has already borne good fruit in other sectoral international organizations such as the wto and again taiwan's accession could be a concrete way of preventing and limiting future dangers for the island's 23 million inhabitants and for the whole region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to speak briefly on behalf of mr la via, as chairman of the committee on budgets, simply to express our disappointment at the delay in the vote on the solidarity fund for the abruzzo region, which has been postponed by two weeks and will take place in plenary in strasbourg. while we understand that there have been technical reasons, we also understand that there are people who still live in tents and l'aquila and its region, abruzzo, are among the coldest areas in italy. we simply want to stress the importance of changing and simplifying the procedures for mobilising this fund.
mr president, i apologize if i have to go back to the abruzzo issue. it is true that we all have respect for people who have suffered an earthquake, but we cannot just celebrate when things happen and not give answers when it is in our power to give them. i agree with mrs matera and ask the house, which is always sovereign, to give its approval for the release of the solidarity fund even without translation. i don't think there are any problems of this kind in the face of tragedy. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i have little to add to what mr daul has proposed in his speech. we all love freedom in its various forms, including freedom of speech and freedom of the press in the broadest sense, so not just the printed press, but also television and other media. it is right that we should defend and support it. it is not right to point the finger at a situation in an instrumental way, because in italy anyone, by connecting to the internet, going to a newsstand or watching television, can see that freedom of the press is not in any danger. in conclusion, if you really want to accuse someone, use article 122 of the rules of procedure and article 7 of the treaties, and have the courage to go all the way.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am in favour of the motion for a resolution to avoid the motion because i have noted in mr schultz's words what i consider to be a very important passage: if there is really an intention that this debate should be on the subject of europe and not be confined to italy, then there is no point in voting a resolution entitled 'freedom of information in italy'. let 's have the discussion tomorrow . we shall give ourselves time and space to deal with the european issue and to vote a resolution on freedom of information in europe.
mr president, i will try to meet the deadline. the lega nord, the party i represent, voted in favour of the treaty in the italian parliament and i myself was a rapporteur. on the referendum, we have accepted with great respect the irish opposition to the treaty, and we accept with equal respect their support to the significant extent of 67 per cent. the will of the people through a referendum is direct and unequivocal. i appreciated the speech this morning by the president of parliament, who said that 'we must also listen to the reasons of those who said no' and above all 'let us ask ourselves why many did not even vote'. i think that is a very wise and sensible reflection, because democracy in europe is not built by decisions from above but by the political consciousness and the growth of the political consciousness of the european peoples. i believe that the people want more democracy... (president interrupts speaker)
mr president, there is no doubt: the victory of the 'yes' vote in the referendum on the lisbon treaty in ireland is a very positive development for the union's revival, including the very important political and institutional reforms envisaged by the treaty. i rejoice with the irish people who have responsibly voted 'yes' and avoided a real paralysis of the european project. i hope that president klaus and president kaczynski will also agree with this, because it is hoped that the irish ratification procedure by referendum will help to continue the efforts to make it possible for the treaty to enter into force on 1 january 2010. the irish 'yes' indicates, however, that the project of a united europe is the only one that is politically credible and that can bring benefits to the countries and above all to the citizens. no one in the irish political class today, as in all the other member states, is able to propose a strategy for the development of their country outside the european union, or perhaps participating in it in a more limited way. the commission must now move forward with greater speed and courage through bold pilot initiatives on several fronts. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but above all, it must learn from the grave mistakes made in recent years. the evolution of the political project we call 'european union' is due to a very specific factor: it is a fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations for the accession of spain and portugal to the european union for a number of years. that is why when i say 'more courage' i mean first of all more courage on the part of those who are leading the commission, so that we can achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
mr president, i was told that i too had three minutes, but i shall try to stick to two minutes. i share the satisfaction already expressed by many of my colleagues and i believe that now is the time to put the treaty of lisbon into practice, to implement it, as soon as the ratifications have been made, which we hope will be very soon. the committee i chair has been doing all it can for some time now, but it is important, above all, that parliament should be aware of its new responsibilities: the commission is not going to let itself be taken away from its larger legislative function. i would like to stress one point, however, which i do not think has been made clear so far: the reasons why the irish people had previously rejected the treaty were many, but among these reasons was also the fear of some voters that the european legal order might violate in ireland certain fundamental values inherent in the right to life and the concept of the family. these fears were dispelled by declarations adopted by the european councils of december 2008 and june 2009. this seems to me to be important for the whole of europe, not just ireland: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. this is not just a clarification for ireland but for all the member states. in reality, this clarification was not necessary because the european court of human rights, in several judgments concerning france, england and poland, had already ruled that in these matters - the field of life, the value of life, respect for life, and the family - the member states should be left to decide according to their history, tradition and culture. but the irish scruple has had the merit of achieving formal clarity on this point, which now concerns the whole of the european union. i think that is a positive factor which makes the double referendum useful. we are all aware, of course, that european culture is the sum of the cultures of all the countries that make up the community, and we all want europe to be not only an economic area but also, and above all, a community of values. i therefore feel it is my duty to express both satisfaction and gratitude to ireland for what it brings to europe with its history and its ideals. europe needed ireland, not only for technical reasons of mechanisms and organizational structure, but also for the contribution that ireland makes to what we are all looking for: the soul of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2 october was a great day for europe, thanks to the irish people who said 'yes' to the treaty of lisbon. the entry into force of codecision will be a genuine democratic revolution for the common agricultural policy in particular: finally, parliament will have the same powers as the council of agriculture ministers. the european parliament has been able to do this thanks to the consensus of the irish people and the favourable vote of national parliaments, including the parliament of the czech republic. any delay would be a problem for farmers in all member states. the agricultural sector is in fact going through one of the most delicate and difficult periods of recent years, with prices falling for most products, not just dairy products, as we have seen in recent days. we expect, mr president, that the council and the commission will take seriously the decisions of this parliament - democratically elected by all european citizens - including in the agricultural field, starting with measures to deal with the crisis in the milk sector.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, and dear cecilia, i would first like to express my condolences on behalf of the alde group and the 30 african parliamentarians who are part of the liberal democratic network within the acp assembly, with whom we met last week to discuss the situation in guinea, together with the president of the liberal party of guinea, a party which has unfortunately been directly affected by the violence. as for the things to do: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, together with the african union partners, to insist on the release of the prisoners and political leaders still detained. secondly, insist on the holding of free and democratic elections without the participation of the members of the national council for democracy and development. thirdly, i call for targeted sanctions to be adopted without excessive caution, in the sense that we must still give a very clear signal, taking into account the atrocities that have been committed. fourthly, we also raise the question of the fisheries agreement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that this is another important decision which we expect from the council. fifthly, to set up programmes of assistance for victims, especially women who have been victims of rape and who clearly need special help. finally, there is the question of justice: it is crucial for us not only to have an international commission of inquiry but also to have the full involvement of the international criminal court. we believe that if there is any meaning that the victims of conakry can give, it is to establish once again that justice must be done and that people who commit crimes of this kind in africa or elsewhere cannot get away with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister mallström has described the situation in guinea very well. for the past few weeks, guinea has been the scene of violent clashes, in which free citizens who take to the streets to express their political views are subjected to unprecedented violence. the guinean government persecutes and suppresses anyone who has political views different from their rulers, thereby depriving the people of any form of freedom which, as we well know, is obviously an inviolable right of every human being. we are witnessing yet another massacre, which is likely to become genocide, unless urgent and concrete measures are taken. last week the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, of which i am vice-president, considered it appropriate to adopt a resolution condemning the use of force by the guinean authorities and calling on the local government to respect the rule of law and protect fundamental rights immediately. after 157 people were killed in the street clashes and camara's attempt to cover up the fact, opposition members turned to the international community in the hope of receiving help and greater protection. but on october 5, camara opposed the presence of a foreign peacekeeping force in the country, rejecting any kind of foreign interference in internal affairs. i therefore believe that the words of condemnation must be met by concrete and immediate action, as my colleague mr rinaldi has just said: in the face of violations and denials of the right to life where once again women and children are paying the price it is not possible not to intervene by demanding a return to the rule of law. i therefore turn to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to all the institutional representatives, and i hope that there will be unanimous agreement - and i stress unanimous agreement - on the adoption of immediate measures to enable the guinean people to re-establish in their country fundamental and indispensable values such as democracy and freedom. i would also like to express my personal sympathy to all the families affected by these tragic events.
mr president, i would like to speak about the tragedy in messina, which the president of the european parliament has just mentioned, with its dozens of deaths. another tragedy has been reported in italy: the president of the italian council even said that it was a foreseen tragedy. it was foreseen but nothing was done to prevent it. nothing has been done because the cement mafia, the forest mafia with the forest fires, rules in that territory. but what is of particular concern to this european parliament is how public money and european union funds are being invested in the creation of a different territorial set-up, so that proper construction can take place and the serious environmental damage that has been done can be remedied. well, these public funds most often end up in the pockets of business committees, in the pockets of corrupt politicians, in the pockets of the mafias. the commission has therefore to be concerned about the use of public money, which should be used to restore nature, protect natural resources, promote economic development in harmony with the environment and create jobs. there must be no more mind-boggling tragedies like the one in messina.
member of the commission. − mr president, freedom of expression and freedom of information represent a foundation of a free, democratic and pluralistic society. that is my firm believe as a former journalist and it is also the firm belief of the european union. that is why all the eu institutions – parliament, the council and the commission – have signed up to the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 11 of which states that: ‘everyone has the right to freedom of expression. this right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers. the freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected.’ i would like to recall that the eu charter also states, in article 51(1), where and when those fundamental rights apply. i quote again: ‘the provisions of this charter are addressed to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity and to the member states’, but ‘only when they are implementing union law’. within the eu’s sphere of competence, which we have to respect, the european commission has always stood up for freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of the press, whether within the eu or in our external relations with third countries. i recall in particular the important role played by the eu’s ‘television without frontiers’ directive, which since 1989 has made sure that citizens in all eu member states are free to receive, without restrictions, broadcasts from other eu countries; an eu directive which has substantially contributed to the free flow of information across borders and to a more pluralistic media landscape in all member states. in this context i would like to thank the european parliament for having helped the commission to get a modernised version of this directive which extends the freedom of information across borders, beyond broadcasting, to other audiovisual services and particularly those transmitted by internet. this directive needs to be implemented by all eu member states by the end of the year, and will make important contributions to a pluralistic landscape when it also comes to the online environment. let me also recall three other very important elements of this directive. firstly, the promotion of independent tv productions. there is a rule in the directive that broadcasters need to reserve at least 10% of their transmission time or 10% of their programming budget to european works created by producers who are independent from the broadcasters. secondly, the directive foresees in its modernised version the right of journalists and news organisations to access short extracts across the eu for the purpose of short reporting. thirdly, and this is of utmost importance, there is a reference in the new directive to the need to have independent media authorities at national level. this is a reference which was proposed by the commission and which could only be adopted in the end thanks to strong support by the european parliament. thus, for the broadcasting sector, the modernised television without frontiers directive can be seen as a charter for freedom of cross-border information in the eu. now let me recall another important aspect in the eu’s field of competence where this institution can act and has acted for the benefit of media pluralism. i mean radio spectrum policy. you all know that there cannot be broadcasting without access to radio spectrum, and it is the eu policy to ensure that all players on the market get non-discriminatory access to radio spectrum. national authorities are thus not entitled to freeze, by means of spectrum allocation, the competitive situation on the media market for the benefit of the operators already active on that market. the european court of justice, by the way, has confirmed this important principle, which directly results from the freedom to provide services, in its centro europa judgment. the commission welcomed that ruling as a contribution to fair competition and as an important foundation for strengthening media pluralism. on that basis, the commission has repeatedly acted against member states where the system of spectrum management has appeared to be in contradiction with this principle. by way of example, i would like to recall the 2006 infringement proceedings on radio spectrum allocation in italy, which my colleague neelie kroes and i opened. under the pressure of this procedure, the italian authorities are now changing their approach. the result of this will be a substantial market opening and a win for media pluralism. spectrum policy is therefore a clear example of an area where the eu can act within its field of competences in order to enhance competition for the resources on which broadcasters depend, and thereby strengthen media pluralism. concerning the written press, the competences of the eu are substantially more limited. the written press is one of those prime examples of national, or even regional, competences and its situation very often reflects the varying cultural traditions in our different member states. there is thus no eu legislation specifically on the written press, nor can there be legislation under the treaties as they stand. nevertheless, in the eu institutions, and in particular the european commission, we have always flanked the development of the written press across the eu. i recall that in my capacity as eu media commissioner i had numerous meetings with editors-in-chief from all around europe to discuss the current issues relating to media freedom and media pluralism. in june 2009, this led to the european charter on freedom of the press, drafted by the journalists across europe. i fully endorsed that charter when the final outcome of this work was handed over to me. the charter on the freedom of the press initiated by the european journalist community is an important reaffirmation of the basic values enshrined in fundamental legal texts such as the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is also a reminder for all policymakers in their field of competence that, in order to have effective freedom of the press, public authorities do indeed have a role to play: they must be ready to protect freedom of expression and foster its development. the charter is therefore an important step towards reinforcing these basic values and rights, allowing journalists to invoke them against governments or against political public authorities whenever they feel that the freedom of their work is unjustifiably threatened. the honourable members will see that strong political commitment is being shown by the eu’s institutions, and particularly by the commission, to fundamental rights and freedom of information, of expression and of the media. we are using our competences to uphold those rights and freedoms in our work, on the basis of the treaties, and will continue to do so. however, let me also touch on another important aspect, namely the fact that fundamental rights apply to eu policies does not make the eu competent for all matters relating to fundamental rights in one member state or another. let us not forget that the member states have constitutions, many of them with long traditions, and that in all member states there are courts, appeal courts and constitutional courts which ensure that fundamental rights are respected and enforced whenever national authorities act. we had an example of this as recently as yesterday in italy. this is the result of the fact that we have a division of labour, because europe is not a superstate, but is comprised of 27 sovereign member states and will continue to operate like this under the new lisbon treaty too. i would therefore call on you not to make use of the eu institutions to solve problems which should, under our treaties, be solved at national level. we should not claim a role that we do not have, and we will not have it under the lisbon treaty either. let us concentrate here on applying effectively the rules, principles, rights and freedoms in areas where the eu is competent. this can lead to very important progress, and i have mentioned several concrete examples of this in my speech. let me add another example of where we could act. paul rübig, a member of this house, recently proposed in a budgetary amendment a new eu programme called erasmus for journalists. such a programme would, in difficult times for the written press, allow journalists to work for a limited time with editorial staff in other member states. it would also allow journalists to discover the political, economic and social situation in other member states and to write about it. it would allow journalists to compare the situation across europe and to present that to the readers, including the situation with regard to freedom of the press. that is why i encourage the european parliament to look very favourably on these proposals, which certainly have the support of the eu media commissioner.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. "remember that you have a great responsibility, that we have a great responsibility", to make your country better. we know that our countries will be better off if europe is stronger, able to respond with a sense of justice to the expectations of its citizens. we know that this is possible if we all do it together, of course; i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. so many controversies affect my country but i want to reassure everyone right away that we are talking about a great democratic country, which has a great constitution. yesterday was a very important day for us italians, because the constitutional court, in the face of outrages and demands for impunity, reaffirmed a simple and ancient principle, namely that all citizens are equal before the law. but we know that even large countries can be distracted, can confuse public goods with private interests. but we cannot afford to let the nation states weaken. the right to free information, without pressure or conditioning by government authorities, must be guaranteed and this is a public good, a good for everyone, in every country. and this good must be defended without hesitation by the union. we must work to provide common standards, to set limits beyond which information is no longer considered free. it is urgent that the union should take action, that a directive be adopted to define indicators on pluralism and the defence of a good which must be available to all. mrs reding, you must never forget that we are a parliament and not a museum where you store moldy objects.
i am grateful to you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to explain myself. in the time allotted to me, i have not had this opportunity. (the president called on the members to allow the speaker to continue) i said that i was pleased with your question because it gives me the opportunity to say that the directive we are asking the commission to adopt must be for all the member states. there is no italian question: there is a european issue. i 'll say more: they want the question we are going to put in strasbourg to be changed. we want to talk about pluralism in italy and in europe. thank you very much for your question.
mr president, it is only because, after mr sassoli's statements in the house that the text we are voting on in strasbourg will be changed, i think it is useless to discuss a text which the proposers themselves have already said they will change.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the european union is an area of freedom and democracy: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of information centres. if it were not enough to examine the plurality of publications in the newsstands, to see the wide range of television channels, even locally broadcast, one should evaluate the reports of independent bodies such as the pavia observatory, according to which the opposition has a space equal to 60 percent on the newscasts of state television and 49 percent on the mediaset networks. it is also worth noting that of the 455 judgments of the strasbourg court of human rights on freedom of information, only seven concern italy, compared with 29 for france and 28 for the united kingdom. as regards the claim that the media are affected by the fact that the president of the council, exercising his constitutional right as a citizen, has brought legal proceedings against some of them, it is highly topical to recognize that in italy, from the first judicial levels to the final and unassailable ones, the judiciary is certainly not pro-government. sometimes it seems the opposite. freedom of expression is guaranteed in italy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
mr president, the television images of this empty house will be the best judge of the force and the fiction of this debate. in fact, in 2004 there was a debate in this house on freedom of information in italy. we voted a resolution in which the proposers expressed their concern about the situation in my country. there was a centre-right government, there was a president of the council: the commission is not prepared to accept this. after the left won in 2006, the problem miraculously disappeared. no more dramatic debates in the european parliament, no more international alarms, no more collecting signatures, which are so dear to the gauche caviar. but suddenly, after berlusconi's election victory, the danger to the free flow of ideas returns as if by magic. the bottom line is that when the center-right rules, the press is at risk. when the centre-left governs, there are no problems. it is a pity, however, that the percentage of civil and criminal cases brought against journalists in my country is the absolute record for left-wing promoters, such as massimo d'alema or romano prodi, reaching 68 per cent of these cases. i wonder, in short, whether it is possible that the freedom of the press has been endangered by a single demand for justice from berlusconi. this is perhaps best explained by an interview with mr cohn-bendit, which i quote: "it is absurd to compare berlusconi to a dictator: there are no prisons for dissidents, he has the support of the majority and the centre-left has simply lost". just lost. it is a grave humiliation for our dear italy to be forced by a handful of professionals of disinformation to a surreal and farcical discussion; and this humiliation will cost them dearly, because they will once again lose the support of the italians who will cast their votes - even more than today - for berlusconi, also in view of the fact that they consider him to be committed to fighting for the well-being of italy. you, my friends, seem determined to destroy the image of our country. but the damage you do to europe is perhaps greater than that done to italy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. deny it, in fact, if you can dear friends of antonio di pietro's party that you are communists. your story follows you and is the story of those who never gave up using lies as a method of labelling their political opponents as dangerous. but the real politician for democracy is the one who does not accept the verdict of free elections and, invoking ghosts, tries to take away our future. we 're not giving up on that future . we will therefore fight in this parliament to prevent the european project, in which we strongly believe, from being distorted by confusing freedom of expression with mystification, justice with power. you know, you self-styled liberals, you will not bend our will to contribute to the common good...
mr president, i would like to thank president schultz very much. i would like to stress that if there is a debate which we will not only not shy away from but which we would like to participate in generously, it is a debate on the concentration of the media in europe, so that we can also talk about the role of murdock, for example. and above all, of course, to ensure that this debate is not used to target a single country. i must of course stress that i was happy to reply to martin schultz, because i consider him to be silvio berlusconi's most important political creation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by addressing myself to the commissioner, who has said that it is not the task of this parliament to resolve certain questions. i would remind you that it is the task of this parliament to ensure that the treaty and the constitutions of the member states are respected. it's a few months ago a statement by the italian minister of justice, who said that he would shortly take steps to close some youtube channels and the network. i remember that only in china do these things happen. article 21 of the italian constitution states that the press cannot be subject to authorization or censorship. as other colleagues have already said, italy is the only country where the head of government has a monopoly on public and now also private television and where, unfortunately, a law is being passed which will effectively prevent journalists from publishing even judicial reports. this is because otherwise the italians would probably have learned of berlusconi's own responsibility for the massacres of 1992, mafia massacres in which falcone and borsellino were killed. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) mr president, i ask you to keep order in this house, because we are not in the market.
mr president, i have raised the sign three times already, and you did not give me the floor, which you did with mr schultz. i now turn to the honourable member and to all those who have spoken, regardless of their political affiliation: have they asked themselves whether the centre-left governments have ever passed a law that could prevent the concentration of the media in the hands of president berlusconi?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning i heard everything against the italian prime minister except that he employs tens of thousands of people through his business activities. i'm sorry if it's not enough at a time like this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i invite you, colleagues not only italians, but also others to examine the articles published, in any month of 2009, in the three main national newspapers: the courier, the press, the republic. you will thus realise that between 60 and 70 per cent, depending on the month, of these articles are opposed both to the majority government and to the ministers who make it up. the percentage of negative articles about the government and, in this case, minister maroni, in the month after the approval of the "security" package rose to 80 percent. as for television, i invite you to watch the programmes of floris, santoro and fazio: i am not going to vote for the motion for a resolution.
madam president, i will try to be brief. italy is truly a champion of freedom, indeed of libertinage - so to speak - as can be seen from reading the newspapers, which berlusconi tries to silence, which he sues because they reveal, among other things, his private stories, through which he also chooses political candidates. his ladies who visit him are compensated either with money or with promises of candidacy. here's the situation: berlusconi is in charge of the italian media. true, there are no laws against freedom of the press not yet. berlusconi is about to introduce them. we have just abolished the alfano law, which was a law invented by berlusconi to protect himself from the courts and all the trials he is facing. so we are faced with this situation. is it right to ask europe to take up this problem? of course, because in italy we can't do it. we are asking europe to intervene humanitarianally in the problem of press freedom in italy. we want you to do this, and we believe that it is also important for europe if we do not want the virus to spread here too soon.
madam president, it is not a very exciting day for the european parliament, wasted on useless debate, when we all know that there is no country in europe where there is more freedom of expression and of the press than in our own country. but when the left was in power in italy and a party like mine, although represented in the chamber, the senate and the european parliament, enjoyed a 0.1% share in the news, sassoli - you worked in those news - did not tear your clothes, did not demonstrate in the streets and, less than ever, did not resign from the lavish salaries of rai. you defenders of press freedom against censorship! we heard the belgians: but does the vlaams belang in belgium enjoy this freedom of the press, this abundance of information, or is it censored as we were? in italy they censored even the good pannella and everyone was silent. you leftists, too. he had to go on hunger strikes: good defenders of freedom! the soviet union of journalists. what freedom does the italian press federation allow the minority? they have to be quiet, they have no space. good defenders of freedom! sorry . these demonstrations - you who are so brave - go and do them by chaining yourself in beijing, in cuba, in tehran, where they die for freedom of the press! shame on you rabbits! go to tehran, go to tehran, you bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny bunny long live freedom, long live our country, free and democratic... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to rationalize a seemingly ambiguous feeling i have after this first phase of the debate, because i fully recognize myself in the strong words spoken by my president daul, but i also recognize myself in the words of my colleague sassoli, who apparently should be my political opponent. let me put it this way: am i schizophrenic in feeling this ambivalence of feelings or am i trying unduly to mediate between the fact that in italy i sit in the opposition, while here i am next to the people of freedom, in the people's party? i think i can answer by pointing out a clear contrast between the magnitude and importance of the subject of freedom of information, a very important subject.... if montesquieu were alive today, he would not only have spoken of the legislative, executive and judicial powers, but also of other powers and would have put the fourth power, the press, which is a problem of freedom, of the fight against mental slavery, a problem of democracy, first. on the other hand, the last straw that broke the camel's back after months and months of embarrassing the entire italian press - let me say, left and right; the quality of the italian press has been falling for months, because politics has really fallen to the bottom - it was berlusconi's judicial action. well, let me see. i was a criminal judge for four years at the court of cassation, in the fifth criminal division, where the crime of defamation by means of the press was tried. and so mr mario is right: i've seen so many defamation suits in the press and no one has protested. it is also the right of the citizen to defend himself in these situations. i hope, therefore, that by really trying to reconcile seemingly opposite things, we will really arrive at a new and higher way of approaching the problem for the whole of europe and not just looking at italy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who tries to portray as anti-italian, subversive or communist all those who call for legislation in the field of communication and freedom of information, respectful of pluralism and characterized by a clear separation between the destinies of those who assume important institutional responsibilities and the wealth that comes to them from business activities in the field of publishing and information, is making a serious mistake which here in europe can be neither forgiven, nor justified, nor admitted. in our speeches we have never named the president of the council. we could have remembered how many warheads he has: 150 in italy; how many tvs: about 40 of them. but that's not the point. the problem is that pluralism of information and in information is a cornerstone of any liberal democracy and must be protected from any monopoly, oligopoly and conflict of interest logic. the sovereignty of each state, the reaffirmation that the european union is not a superstate, commissioner reding, cannot make us forget that the european union also has a charter of fundamental rights, from which a system of regulations is derived that the national states cannot ignore. you know that the court of justice has repeatedly ruled on these very issues - on the case of italy, not on systemic issues, mr speroni - and that its judgments are still awaiting implementation. the globalisation of markets and the increasing use of ether now require more precise european legislation to regulate this delicate matter which has such an impact on the formation of public opinion's convictions and therefore also on the principle of popular sovereignty, which is the basis of the european union and not only the foundations of the italian republic, as well as on the way in which this principle is exercised. no one should be able to invoke the sacrosanct rights of the popular majority to justify intimidation of press freedom in a context where there has been a disparity between the plaintiff and the defendant - whether in italy or portugal, as we have been reminded before - because this undermines the rules of coexistence which are the basis of the union. that is why we urgently need a directive against mergers in the information sector, which will regulate the relations between those who make policy and at the same time control the most important media.
it is curious, madam president, that when we talk about freedom of expression in italy in this chamber, we are constantly running out of time, indirectly censuring the next speaker. i shall therefore try to stick strictly to the time limits. i should like to say that i think this debate is much more appropriate in the italian parliament than in the brussels parliament, unless, as someone has already said, we are discussing freedom of the press in general, that is to say, within the european continent. however, apart from the opinions expressed, i think it is worth mentioning some of the facts which mr speroni has already mentioned and which are worth reflecting on. i would point out that of the 455 judgments of the european court of human rights on the violation of article 10 on freedom of expression, 29 concern france, 28 the united kingdom, 15 greece, 10 romania, 8 poland and only 7 italy. i ask you to consider these data.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in italy, article 21 of the constitution and article 3 of law 102 of 2004 define the scope of freedom of the press and describe its limits: must be objective, comprehensive, fair and impartial, while always safeguarding the dignity of the person, in line with the principles enshrined in the european union. in the age of the internet and digital, in which new newspapers continue to emerge, the public service is showing off programs openly hostile to the head of government, while the press and media are horrified by the action for damages filed by silvio berlusconi against two newspapers. in concrete terms, 1,100 radio stations, 162 newspapers and a few hundred private television stations would not be enough to guarantee the plurality of the media, which would be intimidated by silvio berlusconi's initiative. there is a suspicion that a certain media power, which has become a censor, is also aspiring to become a political power. a system whereby, in other parts of the world, authoritative newspapers such as el pais, the sun and the tarin seem to be rapidly changing their orientations. but the italian left, rather than coming up with a political proposal, relies on the national journalists' union to take to the streets, this time with coordinated interventions in the past, the most disloyal and obstinate anti-democratic backing to the incumbent government. nevertheless, citizens continue to have high approval ratings for the prime minister, freely elected by the italian people, and are confident that the european parliament will confirm - as it did in 2004 - that freedom of the press is a recognized and consolidated value.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not my intention, nor that of my group, which supported and wanted this debate, to transfer the problems of italian internal policy to the european level. the issue of freedom of information concerns us all: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the anomaly in italy, where the prime minister also owns some of the most important private networks, is precisely the existence of a dangerous interweaving of media, political and economic powers. this is precisely why we are calling for european regulatory intervention, an intervention which far from being an act of anti-italianism serves to protect the pluralism of information, avoiding concentrations and conflicts of interest. that is why we are calling on the commission today to act as soon as possible - as this parliament has already called for in the past - in order to provide the european union with common rules to protect freedom of information for all european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am aware that on 30 september the commission presented a study on the indices of media pluralism in the member states. but in 2008 a report was voted on (rapporteur: marianne mikko) calling on the european commission and the member states to protect, and i quote, 'the diversity of opinions in the media, to defend information pluralism, to guarantee all citizens of the european union equal access to free and diverse media'. even earlier, in 2004, a report (rapporteur: bogert-quaart) on the risks of infringement of freedom of expression and information in the european union was voted in parliament, calling on the commission to present a communication on guaranteeing media pluralism in all member states. the commission has not yet given a clear answer to parliament's requests. you will note, madam commissioner, that i have not named my country or my president of the council: but here i am asking you - as a european citizen - what the commission intends to do at european level to ensure that media pluralism is guaranteed in all the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion against the alleged attack on freedom of the press in italy is, in my view, a politically oblique and inconsistent choice. and even some forced words, veined with anger and a little bit of hatred, i think they have objectively taken over. it is very strange, however, that this eclipse of democracy (or presumed to be so) in italy is only now and then seen in such a showy way, given that the centre-right but also centre-left governments - of which i was also a member - have alternated in the leadership of my country. if this stone of illiberalism and anti-democracy really exists in italy, how is it that in so many years of leftist rule it has never been removed? is it negligence, reticence, expediency or - in my opinion, much more logical - the simple consideration that the italian democratic figure is in line with western and european standards? if you really want to use an unusual measure - i am sorry to say that mr serracchiani has used it in this case - to discuss a country and not europe - to ascertain the truth about the state of democracy in our country, then ask the president of the republic, giorgio napolitano, with institutional courtesy, whether he feels that he is the president of a country where pluralism of information is in decline, freedom is in decline, democracy is in a regressive phase. but i do not think that if that were the case, president napolitano would refrain from denouncing such a state of affairs, as faithful as he is to his prerogatives as guarantor of our constitution. since the question, however, concerns friends and colleagues of the left and i regret to say this in a very provincial way the italian political events, recovered a purely european dimension and now for domestic use, it must be noted that as long as the italian left, the historically strongest and most consistent, will be politically guided by comedians and tribunes, its distance from power will increase more and more. i don't think woody allen said the line to president obama.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have read kafka's the trial: it is a book, but it is what is happening today in my country, a country with great democratic traditions, with a government elected by the sovereign people, but where the democratic vote is being subverted with a media-judicial attack unprecedented in history. we are discussing freedom of information when 72% of the press is not in favour of the government and president berlusconi. 70 percent of the lawsuits brought against newspapers were brought against leftist leaders, with a claim for damages amounting to 312 million euros, out of the 486 total that have been requested since 1994: 32 million a year. some kind of additional funding of a judicial nature. we say and we assert to you, colleagues who represent the european democracies, that in italy the judiciary and the media are beating the will of the sovereign people for political interests of parties and caste. so democracy in italy is at risk if the government falls. the first eversive of this concept, from a semantic point of view, bears the name of antonio di pietro. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner reding for his high sense of balance and democracy in producing an intelligent and correct report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate that in italy freedom of the press exists and is stronger than ever. these are the words of a great journalist, gianpaolo pansa, who wrote for many years, for decades, as one of the most prestigious signatures, in the newspaper "la repubblica", of the group "espresso-repubblica", from which he then had to resign because he was accused by the leadership of the group of revisionism which, as you know, in italy is one of the most serious crimes in all, when it is done by the dominant intelligentsia, by the dominant culture in italy which is all left: just watch the democratic party primaries, where they parade from the bankers to all the top actors, directors and journalists in our country. but freedom of information is not freedom of insult or defamation. only the right of defence is always granted to the left: prodi lawsuit, all right; d'alema sues, all right; he's not going to sue. peter's lawsuit is fine. the press is sued by the judiciary more than by politicians. the data is from "repubblica" di pietro: 357 complaints, with already 700,000 euros of compensation. we listened to the data provided by the colleagues. in conclusion, if there is a problem of rebalancing - and i believe that there is one in italy - the only political party that has the titles to invoke it is the centre-right.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 the berlusconi government allocated a total of eur 206 million in direct grants to the press, radio and television broadcasters. incidentally, most of these millions went to the four major left-wing newspapers. the most generous supporter of press freedom in italy is the berlusconi government. the left in italy and across europe has started a campaign about press freedom in danger, based on blatant falsehoods and outright lies. and, fate - it happens here too - did so only after president berlusconi demanded legitimate compensation for the two left-wing newspapers that slandered him, attributing to him infamous behavior, accusations based on absolute inventions, unworthy of journalism that is respectful of its function. president berlusconi is the first to say that freedom of the press is a value: but the freedom to insult, to mislead, to slander and to slander is something else. in this case, every citizen and therefore also president berlusconi has the right to defend himself with the democratic means at his disposal, asking a civil court to assess the offense of some writings, as other leftist leaders have also done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is something really incredible about today's debate, because in italy freedom of information is a constitutional right, guaranteed and recognized. others before me have provided data on the number and political orientation of newspapers in italy. i will allow myself to give a press conference for the benefit of our foreign colleagues. these are some newspaper clippings i bought yesterday at the airport; this is the manifesto, a communist newspaper. this is l'unità, the daily newspaper founded by gramsci, of the pd-pds; this is l'europa, margherita's newspaper, which has joined the pd. then the pd also has a branch of d'alema-letta, which has its own newspaper, il riformista. then there's refoundation, which has its own newspaper, liberation. last year, the rifondazione split occurred and the breakaway party founded its own newspaper, l'altro. finally, there is the political case for this debate: the daily fact. do you know who this paper is referring to? to the party of di pietro, who is animating this debate today. there is a party here which claims that there is no freedom of information, whereas ten days ago in italy it founded a newspaper. in conclusion, madam president, it is as if i were here to tell you that there is famine and hunger in italy, whereas last week i was in my own country at the sausage festival eating roast beef and drinking wine. this is the paradox of a leftist who owns many newspapers, but has no readership and no votes. look for more serious subjects if you want to get them back.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think that this debate was very important because it made very clear that there is a strong agreement in this house, a strong agreement that the freedom of the press does not have an if or a when, it is the basis of our european union. we have to defend it, it is a fundamental value, we have to speak up when it is not honoured and we have to act if there is a problem to be solved. (the president requested silence in the chamber)there is also an agreement in this house that the freedom of the media is a problem to be looked at in all member states. many of you have not been in this house before so i will just recall the action of the european journalists to set up a european charter of the freedom on the press. that was drawn up in order to help mainly the journalists in the new member states and they had asked for this help from the journalistic community. i just want to recall this, because it has been said in this house that there are problems with public television in many of our member states. i recall having gone to one of those member states – it was hungary – to reinforce the case for saving public television, and i think that that should be done in all member states when there is a problem. it is for this reason that we have voted in the new television without frontiers directive, with the help of the parliament, for the establishment of independent media authorities in all of our member states. i can assure this house that whenever there is a problem in establishing these independent media authorities the commission will act. now where there is a disagreement in this house is on how to bring together eu competences with media policies. i think that many members did not hear my introductory statements where i quoted from the charter of fundamental rights, which is very clear. i also quoted article 51(1) of the charter of fundamental rights, which also states very clearly when the charter is to be implemented and the rules for implementing the charter. so i think that everybody can read this and recall it. unfortunately nobody is listening now, although this is very important. (the president again requested silence)in my introductory speech i also underlined the very clear actions, the concrete examples of where the eu can act and has acted, and i underlined the problems which have to be solved at national level. the constitutional court of italy, which acted yesterday, has clearly shown what that means. now there have been several clear demands by this house and i would like to reply to these if the house would permit and listen. (the president once more requested silence)there is the demand by this house to go for the media pluralism approach which has been promised. the work on media pluralism has already made substantial progress and we have published the second step with the risk indicators on media pluralism. maybe many parliamentarians have not seen these. they are on the internet; they can be looked at and they are a very important element in being able to conduct this objective work on media pluralism that the parliament has called for. i must say that i was very disappointed because we had a public workshop on this and not a single parliamentarian turned up to participate in the workshop. well, the risk indicators have been published now and they can be looked at. they will be the basis for our future work. second question: why does not the commission activate article 7 of the eu treaty in the case of italy? first of all, article 7 is a very exceptional provision. so far it has never been activated by the eu institutions. this clause would apply only if there were a complete breakdown of national jurisdictional orders and fundamental rights systems in a given member state. i do not think that we have reached such a situation in any of our member states. but – and it is very interesting – the article states that the european parliament itself has the possibility to activate article 7 of the eu treaty. so i call on the european parliament, if it really thinks there is sufficient proof, to activate article 7 of the eu treaty. third question: many parliamentarians from all political parties – and i think there is relative unanimity in this house – have asked for an eu directive on media pluralism and media concentration. (the president once more requested silence) this is a fundamental question that has to be discussed in depth. you might recall that the european commission started to work on the draft for such a directive in the 1990s and you will also recall that all member states without exception were against such a directive at that time because it was considered to be outside the competences of the eu. now, maybe the situation has changed today and there will be a large majority of member states thinking this can enter into the competences of the eu. of course it would be possible to arrive at such a very generous interpretation of the treaty, to allow the eu to tackle the matter. but, before even starting to think about this, the commission would need to have the strong support of the whole european parliament. and i would like the european parliament to identify clearly which internal market problems it wants to be tackled with such a directive. you know that i personally am not the kind of commissioner who has a problem in regulating. i have in the last five years regulated when it was necessary. but to do this we need clear evidence about the questions we want to answer. would legislation solve the problems you all have in mind today? could we justify it under existing eu competences? is there a clear cross-border dimension? is there a clear internal market dimension because – remember – the legislation which we have already put on the table was all on the internal market legal basis. all this would need to be clarified before we could start a legislative process. so i invite the parliament to discuss this seriously and i invite the parliament to respond to this question in an own-initiative report adopted by a majority of members. then the commission will take that a step forward. in the meantime the commission has done its homework by establishing the risk indicators that will help us to analyse this whole problem in all member states on an objective basis. i think, in the end, that is what the parliament wants. that is also what the other institution wants, because we do not want political usage of our basic freedoms. we want these freedoms to be a right; we want these freedoms to be a basic value and to be treated as such. (applause)
commissioner, may i apologize on behalf of the house for the confusion that has arisen during your reply.
mr daul, unfortunately, as you have said, incidents of this kind have happened many times and we therefore consider them, of course, unacceptable. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the october part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. to declare that freedom of information is denied in italy is an offense, instrumental and opportunistic, to one of the largest western democracies. freedom of information is denied in those countries where dictatorial regimes prevent their subjects from increasing their awareness of daily events by choosing the source of information considered to be the most authoritative. the internet has the merit of breaking down all political, geographical, economic and social barriers to access to information in countries with a democratic tradition such as italy. in some countries, by contrast, the internet is filtered, and many sites, considered non-governmental, are blocked. there, civil rights, such as freedom of expression, marriage, assembly, rights of which we in the west perhaps no longer even realize the importance, because we are used to them, do not even come close to the concept of inalienability guaranteed by our constitution. because they simply don't exist. the european parliament must be a place for growth, debate and the exchange of good practice between european countries. it cannot be reduced to a privileged theatre setting where you can stage a free "premiere" of any provincial play. if there is to be a debate on freedom of the press in europe, it must take place in the european parliament, and let there be one, but let it be constructive and worthy of the prestige of the institution of which we are honoured to be a part.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate parliament for having prevented, at my request, the postponement yesterday of the vote on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in support of the earthquake in abruzzo last april, which caused very serious damage to people and property. there was really no reason to postpone, even for two weeks, a vote which has such a major impact on the lives of european citizens in difficulty. the european commission had carried out the investigation in a very short time, granting italy the exact amount requested, namely eur 493 771 159, which could be the highest amount ever granted by this fund. with this vote, parliament therefore shows its full solidarity and closeness to the people affected. the average time for disbursing this fund is normally about 18 months. the consultation of parliament has now been completed in a very short time, considering that the earthquake occurred only five months ago. i therefore strongly hope that the commission and the council will reduce the remaining time in the procedure as much as possible and make the funds available to italy before the end of the year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, but i think i should make a few clarifications. the recent financial crisis has led to a global economic recession which has particularly affected developing countries in a number of ways, exacerbating the food crisis: according to fao figures, hunger has reached more than one billion people for the first time in history, and 100 million more people are undernourished than in 2008. the impact of the financial crisis on acp countries has been devastating, adding to the complexity of environmental challenges and food price volatility. these countries are not responsible for the crisis but have suffered the most from it, receiving the least aid. this is no longer acceptable! for these reasons, in the face of a situation which is not trivial to describe as dramatic, i believe that it is necessary to improve the quality and not just look at the quantity of aid that is allocated to these countries; i believe that there is a need for greater transparency and efficiency in the use of funds and i believe that there is a need for impartial verification of the results obtained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this parliament should be very concerned about the latest fao report. in fact, while there are governments in the european union, and lastly the italian government, which continues to criminalize immigrants, to violate the right to asylum and to practice the practice of indiscriminate refoulement, i believe that strong cooperation is needed because it is shameful that there are still situations of poverty of the level described by the fao in africa, the middle east and asia. cooperation does not mean building useless buildings that are just for business, but helping those countries to emancipated themselves. another disgrace that i think parliament must address is the privatisation of water, the privatisation of water that some governments in the union are practicing. water is a commodity for all, it is a primary commodity and it is not a commodity for the benefit of multinationals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the request you have made to the belgian and french police authorities for protection in my case. the solidarity of the institutions when they are on the front lines of the fight against a phenomenon such as the mafia in italy, which has caused so many victims over so many years, is very important to me and i thank them wholeheartedly. the mafia has been globalizing for some time now, mr president. not only through money laundering from illicit activities, but also through permanent presence in several european countries, including through immigration. when i sent the request on 16 july for a commission of inquiry into the phenomenon of the mafia in europe, i did so with the idea of serving not only my country but also the european community, considering that the lack of supervision of an organized criminal phenomenon such as the mafia could have a negative impact on the quality of life and security of citizens and on development mechanisms. and it is singular, mr president, i concluded... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both proposals transfer to the commission the powers which have hitherto been attributed to the council. with the coming into force of the treaty of lisbon and the consequent abolition of the community's pillar structure, the legal situation will be profoundly different, it will be significantly modified. the evaluation mechanism will therefore have to be based on a consistent distribution of tasks now between the first and third pillars. for this reason, i think it is essential that the proposal should involve the member states more closely. - mr commissioner, i do not think that the presence of experts is sufficient - and above all, real involvement, real participation by the european parliament in the coordination group of the mechanism for monitoring and verifying the correct application of the schengen acquis. in addition, i believe that the use of the migratory pressure parameter, which identifies the areas most at risk for surprise visits, should be identified and specified more precisely, using more exhaustive and more precise criteria. finally, the proposals should be treated as a single package and not separately, as they both represent common aspects of the same problem and present the same shortcomings. this is also because, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the procedure to be applied will be codecision. i therefore fully support the position expressed by mr coelho and the requests to the commission to withdraw these proposals and to table new proposals for improvement which take account of the findings of this debate.
member of the commission. - madam president, i cannot answer all the questions that have been put to me, given that we are in a difficult period. in the case of the vis, it is the tests which affect the central system and which must be completed by 11 november and in the case of sis ii, it is the milestone, i.e. this criterion which must be fulfilled by the end of the year. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have spoken. i would like the european parliament to be fully associated with all the information. i would remind you that these two major systems were designed by the member states precisely to ensure freedom of movement and security, as mr busuttil and mr claude moraes have pointed out. i would first like to try to answer the question on vis, and in particular to mrs ludford, who has been following this problem particularly closely as rapporteur. what we can say is that the vis will be put to the test by november 11th, which will tell us whether we need to change course. so far, it can be assumed that the vis system has a good architecture and that there are indeed some bugs, but these can be corrected. however, it is these tests which will then determine whether the contract needs to be terminated at the contractor's expense. it is too early to say, and the calendar would then be revised at that time. i would remind you that in 2005 the council decided that the vis should be deployed by the member states in a coherent and coordinated manner. for this reason, the vis regulation provides that the system will start operations in the first region on the date set by the commission when all member states have notified the commission that they have made the necessary technical and legal arrangements to use the vis in that region. this implies that the vis starts operations in the first region - north africa, which covers countries with the highest risks in terms of irregular immigration or security - on the same date for all member states. this leads me to say that it is really necessary that all the member states should be able to operate the vis, because it would be extremely damaging if the central system were to function normally and we were obliged, because of the delays in some member states, to extend the deadlines even further. so i'm going to stress this a little bit. i note that mrs ludford has mentioned the problem of the olympic games. i hope we'll have made progress by then. but it is true that it was normally envisaged that the united kingdom could eventually connect to sis i + if this proved necessary in view of the olympic games. i would also like to say that we hope that we will not be too far from the deadline for visa applicants, because this is very important to us, and the serious risk of visa shopping at the consulates can be aggravated if we are too late with the vis. mrs ždanoka told me about the biometric data and the access control to the system. i think we shall have occasion to discuss this again, but this control will be subject to a number of clear rules. i have noted that mrs ernst is against the system, but i also want to take up what mr timothy kirkhope said to me. and now i turn to mr coelho. mr coelho is indeed well acquainted with sis ii and i would like to try to give him some answers, and i reserve the opportunity to write to him to give him the other answers to his seven questions. what can be said is that the commission has started contract negotiations with its co-contractor and that these negotiations were two-fold: the ordering of the additional services and equipment required to carry out the test of the first milestone and an addendum to the basic contract allowing the milestones to be contracted within the sis ii project. we reached a general agreement at the end of july. we reached an overall agreement at the end of july, and it is true that the co-contractor pointed out that there were specifications which seemed to make it very difficult to achieve this first milestone. however, we have signed a contract with the contractor to provide for the crossing of this milestone. the period of analysis and repair nevertheless showed that sis ii was based on sound foundations, although its complexity was sometimes excessive, and that, provided some effort was made, the system was repairable. this in-depth analysis has revealed several ways of improving the system, but it is true, mr coelho, and i say this to the attention of the whole parliament, that we are facing a very ambitious project in this area and that it is not easy to see what is going to happen. i can say, however, that we have imposed contractual penalties on the hewlett-packard-steria consortium to punish it, on the one hand, for its failure to bring the system up to the contractually required level at the end of the contractual phase of operational tests at the st and, on the other hand, for the time being at any rate, for the delays in the internal tests of the vis. these two projects are governed by the same contract, so the penalties are deducted irrespective of whether the invoices are for sis ii or for the vis. the penalties amount to almost €3.5 million and the penalty counter continues to turn for the vis, while the sis ii counter has been suspended since the start of the analysis and remediation exercise which began last january. if these projects are abandoned, the cost will of course be borne by the contractor. madam president, in the present state of affairs and in view of both what i said about the vis, about the tests that will take place by 11 november, and about sis ii, about the objective of checking by the milestone at the end of the year whether the architecture is really valid, i cannot give a more precise answer as we are in the period of carrying out these tests and preparing the milestone. i would like to say that parliament is welcome to help us stimulate the counterpart. as you have seen, i am very firm and i have personally committed myself to this matter. i hope that, like galileo, i will be able to save these two projects, which are very interesting from a technological point of view and would allow europe to benefit from a very efficient system, but i cannot be sure about that tonight. parliament is also welcome to help us to stimulate the member states: with regard to the vis, the biggest delays at the moment are at the level of a few member states. madam president, i am well aware that i have not answered all the questions but i am at the complete disposal of parliament to give, as and when i do, any information that members may wish to have, and in particular those who have asked me this evening.
president of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again to discuss the crisis in the milk sector. the tragedy of this crisis continues to worry us, just as european farmers continue to express their unease and fear for the future. this parliament has already spoken on the matter, both by adopting a resolution with our proposals and by adopting the commission's proposal to extend the intervention period for milk powder and butter, to which we have added the request for the private storage measure for cheese. we had stressed at that time that the measures proposed by the commission were absolutely inadequate. we are now faced with the question of whether or not to grant the emergency procedure for the extension of article 186 of the single european act to the dairy sector, i.e. the possibility for the commission to decide, in the event of a market crisis, to introduce emergency measures without going through the normal procedure in parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take the necessary measures. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner - also on behalf of the committee i have the honour of chairing - for coming to parliament at the very end of the agriculture council in luxembourg. it was a gesture of great consideration which we appreciated. the debate last night was very lively, mr president, and there were many criticisms raised by our colleagues. first of all, it was pointed out that the commission had acted very late, without sufficiently understanding the gravity of the current crisis. the objection was then raised that article 186 deprives parliament of its decisionmaking powers, and thus gives the commission a free hand. it was also said that the commission should have made more funds available to deal with the crisis. these are legitimate concerns, and we agree with them in part. however, mr president, i feel obliged to admit that the commission has made considerable efforts and progress, showing that it takes parliament's opinion and will seriously. he explained to us how he intends to use a fund of €280 million which i remind you we will be voting on on thursday as part of the approval of the 2010 budget he told us some of the measures he will put in place, such as private storage for cheeses and he raised the de minimis ceiling from €7 500 to €15 000, as required by our resolution adopted in september. i am aware that this is not enough, but i think, mr president, that we must vote today in favour of the request for urgency. european farmers expect immediate answers and too much time has already been lost. today we must take responsibility for speeding up the time to deal decisively with the crisis. we are showing the same responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, with which we are preparing to face the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon with codecision in agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last night the lega nord delegation was the only political force in the committee to vote against this resolution. we voted against it because we consider it to be euro-madness. in a time of industrial crisis such as the one we are experiencing, with loss of competitiveness and jobs, to think of financing technological innovation in developing third countries is to throw a tombstone over european enterprises. this text provides for an allocation of 30 billion euros per year until 2020 to countries such as china, india and brazil, which are our most dangerous and unfair competitors, and at the same time calls on our industries to further reduce emissions, with heavy economic consequences. we cannot turn the just battle for the environment into a war between the poor. as long as there are countries like china, which make unfair competition their industrial policy, there can be no global market that is environmentally sustainable. we in the northern league are on the side of the workers, on the side of the people of the enterprises, who have to fight every day against the industrial giants of countries that do not know what the rules are. yes to the environment, no to the funding of our competitors at the expense of our workers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have seen that the speech on the vote yesterday in the committee on the environment has been reported many times. i would like to make it clear that this cannot be reduced to a single extremist ideological position. we have heard so many different views from colleagues, and they are much more varied, much more articulated, much more common sense, and i think that by being more in touch with reality i am better able to give real answers. the totem science does not exist, when you have made the mistake of identifying a problem in such an ideological way, you have not given any answers, but you have caused disasters and europe should be a teacher in this, not repeating the same mistakes, even if in different clothes and with labels that seem apparently much more friendly. i should like to remind you that the emissions trading directive itself provides that the european union's virtuous course will be assessed by the commission on the basis of the outcome of the conference. we must go to the conference with strong positions, with clear ideas, but with the absolute aim of equitably dividing the effort between all the industrialized countries, which must first of all undertake equivalent emission reduction targets, but also without forgetting what mrs grossetête very well recalled, namely that we cannot now avoid making a distinction between the developing countries: there are countries that are really developing and there are countries that are now emerging economies, i'm talking about india, china, brazil. these are countries which cannot but also assume their own responsibilities. i would strongly urge that if the balance is not reached in copenhagen, the european union should continue to grant free allowances to sectors at risk under directive 2003/87/ec. these are fundamental points, and we want the kyoto protocol itself to retain its environmental significance and we want above all that a financial bubble not be created to the detriment of our european companies.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
member of the commission. - mr president, yesterday my colleague, the vice-president of the commission, mr barrot, stressed that the proposals are aimed at making the evaluation mechanism more community-wide and more efficient, while maintaining mutual trust between member states. the commission is convinced that parliament should be involved in the schengen evaluation, which is not the case at present. citizens must be able to know the results of these evaluations. however, under the existing treaties, it is not possible to involve parliament by co-decision. the commission therefore maintains its proposals on the basis of the treaties in force. however, when the lisbon treaty enters into force, the file will be reopened and the commission will decide, in due course, what it considers to be the appropriate legal basis for the proposed mechanism, involving the european parliament to the greatest possible extent. the commission could therefore submit amended or new proposals as appropriate.
thank you, mr coelho. there is no need to vote on this request, because if the commission decides to maintain its proposal, it is automatically referred back to committee, as requested by mr coelho.
member of the commission. - mr president, it is the same case. the commission's position is therefore identical.
i think that this second report will also be referred back to committee, as the european commission has decided to maintain its proposal.
the budget is the instrument on which parliament can and must express all its strength as an institution directly elected by the citizens, in order to ensure that this fundamental instrument of growth, as well as of equity and justice, is fully responsive to the needs of the citizens. the budget must be real, it must be able to listen and respond. we have worked in this direction to ensure that the 2010 budget proposal expresses all its flexibility at a time of particular economic and financial crisis. but the budget must also be credible, feasible and real, and in this respect the fundamental choice was not to restrict the financial resources for future years too much, limiting the effort to the maximum ceiling for expenditure, contained in the prospects of the multiannual financial framework, only in cases where there was really an absolute priority. this is the case with the recovery plan. we have also made precise amendments to the payment plan to make the maximum possible amount of resources immediately available. the european budget is structured on two lines, that of commitments and that of payments. commitments are serious political intentions, but they are also real and actual actions. the payments are therefore increasing, as is the budget proposal submitted by the committee on budgets of eur 127 billion, compared with the eur 120 billion proposed by the council and the eur 122 billion proposed by the commission. in the same vein, in the same political line as a group, we have strongly opposed the creation of reserves, which are not real resources, immediately available to the citizens. the policy of setting up reserves in times of crisis must be reduced to the minimum necessary, to the cases where a reserve is technically indispensable. because in times of budgetary crisis it is not useful to write numbers, but to build a useful budget that is immediately operational. there are other issues that deserve special attention. as a group we have taken on the important responsibility of reintroducing the amendment for the milk fund for eur 600 million, because that is how it was voted by the agriculture committee unanimously, with the participation of all members and all the groups, and also of reintroducing an amendment for a microcredit project for eur 37 million which, and this is very important, does not jeopardise the implementation of other programmes under heading 2. because there's a particular risk in times of crisis: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is against this risk that parliament, as a directly elected institution with a different role from the council and the commission, must be particularly careful in its action, including its monitoring.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the committee on budgets for its work, which, in the light of the needs of the agricultural world, has sought to establish a comprehensive framework of resources to be allocated to the solution of a problem, that of farmers and milk, which is certainly a matter of concern to many european countries today. however, the need to have a minimum margin did not allow the milk fund to exceed eur 300 million. this is a strong intervention, however, if these resources, as the commissioner has been asked to do, are additional resources and of course provide for a package of appropriate measures. on the other hand, we hear that some other groups are proposing, probably also in a populist way, a much higher case, but they are aware that these resources cannot be found in any way and only to give an external message of a certain kind. i would also like to stress that another theme in the budget must be given proper attention: the long-term real estate policy. with the lisbon treaty, with the new powers that parliament will have, with the obvious need to strengthen relations with regional parliaments, with the new thematic areas, we will need more space in the brussels offices and for this reason i believe that it will be necessary, given that 97% of the current buildings are now occupied, to activate a serious policy for the establishment of an even larger european quarter that can give a precise idea of the unity of europe, also with a suitable building policy.
i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction at the sense of responsibility shown by this house this morning in adopting the urgency procedure to include the dairy sector in article 186 of the single cmo, as well as many other agricultural products. the rapid extension to this sector of the rules governing intervention in response to the market crisis allows us to give an important response at a very difficult time for the whole of agriculture and in particular for the dairy sector. we expect the european commission to respond to parliament's requests, as commissioner mariann fischer boel has just told us, which has repeatedly pointed out that the measures taken so far have proved insufficient in view of the gravity of the crisis. the opening up of parliament to the commission today should not be interpreted as an act of delegation in full and in blank, but as an act of responsibility in a dramatic and quite exceptional situation. i would like to stress that parliament considers it essential to be involved at every stage of the decisionmaking process in order to ensure democratic control and that is why we believe that parliament should be informed in advance by the commission of how it will actually use these new powers given by article 186 also for the milk sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the approach of the commissioner who has chosen to come to parliament to present the package of measures relating to the dairy sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left behind. i do not think, however, that the proposed measures alone can solve the problems we are facing. nevertheless, i think it is essential to vote on the proposal to amend articles 78 and 79 of regulation (ec) no 1234/2007. as regards article 186 of the cmo, i note first of all that paragraphs (a) and (b) of that provision provide for different protection for different products, with some products being protected when prices rise and fall appreciably, while others - pigmeat, olive oil and other products - are protected only when prices rise appreciably. that seems to me to be an unacceptable discrepancy. i would like to take this opportunity to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. finally, i would ask the commissioner, as requested in the resolution of 17 september to parliament, to increase the de minimis ceiling for all sectors of production, regardless of the national ceilings currently allocated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. i am pleased that you, commissioner, are presenting measures to meet our demands just a few weeks after this house adopted a resolution on milk. i agree with your proposal on article 186, including a time limit which seems reasonable to me. i am also in favour of the differentiated allocation of quotas you propose. i am more puzzled by the proposal to buy back the quotas. you have said for weeks and months that the current crisis was not caused by the quota system, and in that respect this proposal for a buyback does not make much sense to me. in conclusion, i would also like to say that this cannot be the end of the flagpole. we must continue to take action, especially for dairy farming in difficult areas, in mountainous areas where there is simply no alternative to dairy farming.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to make a few remarks which, in view of the possible entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, must be made, also and i would say especially in the light of the very significant effect of the recent judgment of the german constitutional court on the treaty of lisbon. i would like to focus in particular on the question of the lack of democratic legitimacy in both respects, the insufficient representation in the european parliament of the countries with the largest populations and also in the various european institutions, and then on the insufficient consideration of national parliaments in the exercise of sovereign powers at the level of the european union. i would like to mention another deficiency which i think is significant in the lisbon treaty, namely that the role of regional parliaments is largely ignored. if the national parliaments are not paying enough attention, i would say that the principle of subsidiarity is given a kind of tombstone by the treaty of lisbon as it stands today. the judgment of the german constitutional court, precisely because of its authority and strength, should have and should open a wide legal and political debate in this house, precisely on the dangers, on the risks that the process of federalisation of the european union brought about by this treaty may determine. i would also like to mention the rights of the stateless nations, from padua to brittany, from corsica to the aosta valley, there are dozens of stateless nations which must be mentioned, bearing in mind that what the founding fathers wanted to build was a europe of the peoples, not a federalist europe, not a europe of the big interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the time must come when this house will no longer be discussing the treaty of lisbon, as we have heard today. i believe that the wishes of this parliament, of the great european countries, of the 27 and the 26 which have ratified that treaty in different forms but with democratic expression, must be respected, and therefore the offenses against the treaty and the democratic content must also be rejected. i also believe that the council meeting at the end of the month is an important occasion to reaffirm the need to revive the european idea beyond lisbon and to revive the economy, and not to leave europe behind on the great issue of climate change. and from this point of view i think that what we have heard recently from the president-in-office, but also what we have heard today, is insufficient. europe beyond lisbon is not interpreting the strong content of the new treaty and is not implementing what is written in the lisbon agenda. i therefore urge the commission to fulfil its mandate as the proponent of european legislation on the big issues of the economy, economic recovery, employment recovery and the council to turn a long list of titles into a real policy to support what are economic difficulties, if we want to remain, 500 million europeans, the world's greatest economic power which is about to become a major political reality in the world. that's what i think you're missing. we are not talking about a major plan to revive the economy, we are not talking about major issues such as the revival of infrastructure policy with eurobonds, we are not talking about a major european initiative. that is what we expect from the european council at the end of the month.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, courage, courage, courage, that is the recommendation i feel i should make in view of the council's work and that is why, when we are discussing the appointments of the new commissioners and the new foreign minister of the european union, the president of the european council, and therefore the people who, together with president barroso and the other commissioners, will be guiding european policy in the near future, we should use as a method of choice only that which is of the greatest possible benefit to the citizens of europe. the choice is therefore made of people of political and human stature whose national and european political commitment has been marked by a focus on the common good. these must be the basis on which we continue to tackle the big issues such as climate change, perhaps by looking more deeply at the needs of the different economies and the economic crisis, with bold initiatives such as eurobonds, and by including them on the agenda of the next council. i would like to conclude by quoting the words spoken in recent days by the holy father, pope benedict xvi, which i would very much like to see taken into account at the next european council, because they are words which providentially call to mind a common responsibility of all citizens and all politicians, namely the request to seek in unity and in the common search for truth that decisive blow to build something important for themselves and for future generations. progress and civilization are born of unity, and europe was great when it transmitted these constituent values which came to it from the christian faith, making them the heritage of culture and identity of the peoples. i believe that this is the clear path to be followed in order to meet a decisive challenge to europe's re-emergence as a global power.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you, members, for your questions and comments. there is a lot of talk about a people's europe, a europe of the people, and then it is interpreted a little bit to suit one's own political purposes. there is nothing wrong with that, but if you ask the citizens, "what do you want in europe?" the citizens of all european countries say: we want a european cooperation based on a set of values, which solves our common problems the economic crisis, unemployment, climate change, crossborder crime, migration, etc. that's what we're here to do. many of these issues will be discussed at the summit in ten days. we will not, of course, be able to solve all of this, but hopefully we can take important steps forward, and thereby create a more citizens' europe. we will make these decisions in a way that is democratic, open and allows for transparency. there are different views on the treaty of lisbon. the swedish presidency and the council, and i think the majority of this house, believe that the lisbon treaty brings europe closer to its citizens. we make decisions more efficiently and democratically. we are also giving the european union greater strength and weight in our global relations. that is why it is important to get the treaty in place, and i can guarantee that we will do our utmost to get it done as soon as possible. there is still no solution ready for the czech president. i understand there's a little speculation here, but there's no solution yet. we are in intensive talks with our friends in prague and hope very, very soon to be able to present a proposal to you on how to solve this. i would also like to remind you that the czech constitutional court must of course first make its assessment before we can proceed. in the meantime, preparations are continuing for the codecision procedure with parliament for the european external action service, which we shall be discussing this afternoon. i can return to many of the points that have been made and other issues relating to the lisbon treaty. there is very good cooperation with president jerzy buzek and his staff on how parliament, the council and the commission will be able to work together on the new rules in place. there have been some questions about afghanistan. yes, marielle de sarnez, we hope that we can move forward the discussion on a more european approach to afghanistan, based both on the military presence of the european union and on increased support for civil society, for democratic state-building processes. at the moment, there are intense discussions about how we can support the elections that will take place on november 7. it's a short time. it is difficult to get european election observers on the ground in such a short time, but we will of course do our utmost. it is the long-term objective of the european union, which we support, to have a common asylum and migration policy. we will not have time to do so before the end of the year, because the treaty of lisbon must enter into force first. however, i share your view that this is important. in the meantime, we are working on the stockholm programme, and we are discussing migration issues, among other things. they are very complex and concern cooperation with third countries, trade, aid, the possibility of establishing a framework so that we too can have legal immigration to europe. they also concern solidarity and reception systems. in this context, the commission will report on the progress made. then we will make further decisions in december. the issue of the ankara protocol is important, johannes van baalen. we often tell our turkish friends that they should ratify and implement the ankara protocol. the issue will not be discussed at this summit, but the enlargement debate will be held later in the autumn with a possible decision in december. so i can certainly come back to that question. as regards the number of commissioners, the european council has decided that each country should have one commissioner. under the current treaty, this could change in 2014. we have time, once the treaty is in place, to review the possible legal adjustments needed to guarantee that each country can retain its commissioner. we will. we are discussing with the various judicial bodies whether further amendments to the treaty are necessary or whether the european council's unanimous decision is sufficient. the same applies to the 18 additional members of parliament. as soon as the treaty is in place, we will begin preparations for this. some countries have already made preparations to be able to send the members in question quickly. in some countries, the national electoral system is a little more complicated, jean-pierre audy. therefore, it may take some time. i hope that the preparatory work will start as soon as possible. i am very pleased that the european parliament has said that these members will be observers for the time it takes before they can formally become members. we will do our utmost, together with the incoming spanish presidency, to ensure that this proceeds as smoothly and as quickly as possible. finally, i would like to thank not only for this debate but also for the very, very strong support that this house gives to the presidency on the climate issue. we will do our utmost to ensure that decisions on european financing based on both the european contribution and our contribution to the developing countries can be taken at the european council, thereby giving a very strong signal and a 'push' to the international negotiations so that they are as successful as ever possible in copenhagen. it is the most serious and important issue of our generation that we take proper, concrete steps to combat global temperature rise and have a global regulatory framework. i am very grateful for the support and commitment of the european parliament in this matter.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all thank you very much for this lively and interesting debate. it is very clear that the sense of urgency about the implementation of the lisbon treaty is tangible in this house and in this debate. as you will understand, the commission, like parliament, is eagerly awaiting the entry into force of this new treaty. we all know that the political process of approval has now been concluded in all member states. it is of course for each member state to finalise the ratification process and, in so doing, they have to respect their internal procedures, but it is also clear that no individual member state acts in a vacuum. their decisions or delays will have an impact on all. we of course hope that the czech republic will very soon be in a position to ratify the treaty. i would also like to remind everybody here about the loyal cooperation that is one of the principles and main features of the european union. i think it is of crucial importance that member states can trust each other on the commitments made. may i also comment on the fact that many of the members of parliament here have made a distinction or a divide between reality – with unemployment and an economic crisis – on the one hand, and the text of the lisbon treaty on the other, but of course the whole idea is that the text of the lisbon treaty is there to deal with the context and that we will be better equipped to take effective decisions on immigration or asylum policy, on energy security etc. this is the whole idea, and we have to link them instead of dividing them, but we hope that we will very soon come to the end of this eternal debate on institutional issues and be able to use these new effective instruments. the commission is now working actively to prepare for implementation when the treaty enters into force. i know that this afternoon you will be devoting a specific debate to the external action service. this is therefore not the time to enter into a full discussion on that issue. but i would say that we are facing a real challenge here. it is a challenge to draw together the different players in the field of external relations, and the overall aim has to be to achieve a diplomatic synergy. a certain degree of creative thinking is necessary while respecting the interinstitutional balance. we also need the service to be fully accountable to this house – to the european parliament. i strongly believe that the setting-up of the external action service can be a success if council, parliament and the commission work closely together. we must also respect the fact that it is for the high representative and vice-president of the commission to make a proposal in agreement with the commission. on another important issue, the european citizens’ initiative, the commission intends to launch a green paper in mid-november. we intend to hold a broad consultation with citizens, civil society and all stakeholders in order to launch the legislative proposals very soon after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the consequences of the economic and financial crisis will appear high up on the council agenda. we heard this particular theme evoked often during the debate. i agree with those who said that there is no room for complacency. it is true that the policies in response to the crisis are starting to bear some fruit – financial markets are starting to consolidate and confidence is improving – but we are far from full recovery and the consequences of unemployment are, and will remain, very severe. political efforts must also continue to support active labour market policies. the commission of course – and i say this in response to some of the questions raised during the debate – stands by its budget proposal. we hope that parliament will also confirm our ambitions by your vote. as president barroso said yesterday in the question hour, what has been done so far is not enough. the employment situation is such that we all need to do more at european, but also at national, level. unemployment is our first concern today and we hope that we can count on the european parliament in continuing work on this, and also to put pressure on the council, and at national level, to approve our proposal on easing the management of the structural funds, because that could definitely help. another issue raised concerned the administrative burden. this thursday the commission will adopt a very far-reaching communication on administrative burden reduction. that communication will set out what has been achieved so far and what still remains to be done. it also builds on the important work done by the stoiber group. according to this particular report, the picture is very positive, and the proposal for how to deal with the administrative burden reduction is on the table. unfortunately the majority of these proposals are pending before the council, so again we hope that the european parliament will help us to put pressure on the member states to actually move forward on these issues. i would also like to say something about financial market supervision, which has of course regularly appeared on the commission agenda over recent months. a complete new supervisory framework must be set up at eu level, and we are pleased to see that some progress has been achieved. there is broad agreement in the council on the commission proposal on the systemic risk board for macro-prudential supervision. we hope parliament will give its support to this. much more effort is needed when it comes to the supervisory authorities for micro-prudential supervision and, again, we count on the will of both council and parliament to arrive at an ambitious and efficient solution as soon as possible. finally, let me say something about the topic which also features at the top of the swedish presidency’s agenda, namely climate change, because we only have a few weeks to go to the copenhagen conference. i think several of you have touched upon what will be the core issue which will determine success or failure. i would call it climate justice, because this is about the relation between developing and developed countries and the will to present a credible proposal for the financing of both mitigation and adaptation measures and the way we also show our willingness to lead the way. the commission – and it is the only body to have done this – has presented a proposal for financing. it has been criticised by many as not being enough. i am sure it will not be enough, but it is the first step, and hopefully it will also make the others come up with their own efforts and put something on the table that we will be able to negotiate in copenhagen. we will, of course, continue to be fully active and not lower our level of ambition, but instead encourage all other parties and partners to take a full part and take a seat at the table – including the united states, for the first time – so that we can respond to all the concerns of citizens. i can assure you that we have no intention of lowering our ambitions, but instead will make sure that we work proactively for a good deal in copenhagen.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, pursuant to rule 147, i would like to remind you that this house decided, during the debate on human rights in the world in 2007, not to use, as proposed by the european people's party, references to persons representing high civil or religious institutions in order to strengthen political positions. we therefore ask you to take the same action with regard to the amendments to our resolution tabled by the ppe group which make explicit reference to the president of the republic, giorgio napolitano.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i fully agree with the interpretation given by the presidency to the amendments, i have an oral amendment, so we keep all the amendments and simply propose to remove the name and surname of the president of the republic. my proposal is therefore, in keeping with our custom, not to include the reference to persons and to remove 'giorgio napolitano', leaving the amendments and the possibility of voting on the amendments themselves. i think that this can give some sense of the respect we want to have for the president of the republic, who objectively said what he said and who was taken into account in the debate by all the speeches of all the political groups.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, having taken note of the presidency's decision on the admissibility of these amendments, i would simply ask the authors of these amendments to withdraw them for the sake of political expediency. i do not think that not mentioning the name of the president of the republic will make much difference, since the president of the republic is mentioned in these amendments. i think that is a bit of a ritual in our work, i have never seen parliamentarians from other countries mention the queen of england or the president of germany in our resolutions for reasons which may appear to be instrumental. so i would simply ask for amendments nos 7, 8 and 9 to the resolution to be withdrawn.
i am not saying that we should not vote for the amendments, but that we should vote against them.
mr president, i am speaking to inform you of a very serious matter, which has nothing to do with this vote, and on which i ask the president of parliament to obtain information as soon as possible so that we can take steps to protect our prerogatives and immunities. this morning a member of our delegation witnessed the intrusion of italian police officers into his private residence while he was here in strasbourg, and he had to leave strasbourg in a hurry to go to the scene on the initiative of the italian judiciary, which ordered the search of a member of the european parliament, that is to say, the private residence of a member of the european parliament, in clear violation of the inherent aspects of our prerogatives and immunities. i simply ask this parliament and the presidency to check whether the initiative taken by the italian judiciary and police against mr clemente mastella is not disrespectful and a serious breach of the very nature of our immunity.
mr. president, "what to the caterpillar looks like the end of the world to the whole world looks like a butterfly". this thought of a chinese philosopher is relevant in this discussion, considering that obama wins the nobel peace prize while attacking an adversarial television and here we discuss a hypothetical lack of freedom that has only one reason: the culture of hatred against berlusconi. culture of hatred, as this photo montage of the prime minister behind bars at the press freedom demonstration in the square shows, where red flags and insults of all kinds were prevalent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. europe, which has always been unable to tolerate a strong and decisive italy, may be pretending not to know all this in order to reduce italy to an "italian". the italian people will not allow this, they will not allow the subtle european powers to try to reduce italy by means of the culture of hatred of those in italy who only want to overturn the democratic electoral victory of the centre-right. in italy, among the most read newspapers, 18 are opposed to or not aligned with the government and only 5 are center-right and you hear insults of all kinds. that is the truth, and it is time that this house, in order to defend democracy, discussed an anti-democratic italian left which is drugged by the culture of hatred.
mr president, europe has also noted that the italian opposition is suffering from a hallucinogenic delusion. of course, we cannot rejoice because we would have preferred to go to the assembly and talk about the real problems for which people ask us for solutions, but we are comforted that at least europe has given a verdict that no one in di pietro can question. in fact, it had already happened in 2004, again with di pietro as the protagonist, supported by other parliamentarians, and now he has sent the others here to do the same thing, but there was no kind of exultation on the part of this movement. the italian electorate has also wanted to remove the communists from the parliamentary arch, since they no longer sit in these seats. freedom of the press in italy is nothing more than an attempt by editorial groups, judges and politicians to delegitimize the premier and his government. but this creates a climate of one-targeted, obsessively repetitive man-hunting and civil war which, fuelled by a certain left, can lead to very serious consequences.
mr president, first of all i would like to correct my first and second votes, which were intended to be abstentions, but i did not vote in the right way because i arrived in haste and i used the wrong key. the first two votes are abstentions for the whole day. the statement is this: there is a grave sin of origin in the initiative which has led to today's debate and it is a sin already pointed out by the president of the italian republic. to this sin has been added the pretext of choosing, as an occasion for the attack on the president of the italian council, his judicial action against certain newspapers, which is obviously entirely in accordance with the rule of law. we therefore did not vote for the initiative of alde, gue, etc., but we did not vote for the motion of the european people's party either because it, while worthy of appreciation in so far as it safeguards italian dignity, totally forgets a problem of balance between media power and the other powers of the state, which exists in europe and is also serious in italy and which concerns not only the question of the conflict of interests of the president of the council in this field, but also other problems. on the other hand, at national level my party, the udc, is continually challenging the majority on this. i think we too must give a signal of support by abstaining.
mr president, this debate has shown us that the italian left is increasingly distant from the common sense of our people. there was no uprising by the italians, but a political maneuver by a judicial, editorial and political elite to overturn a popular verdict legitimately obtained a few months ago. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. every italian in good faith recognizes that in italy there are newspapers, radio and tv that freely carry on their work, that many of these newspapers have an editorial line contrary to that of the president of the council, that if there is a lack of pluralism this is within the only - and i emphasize colleagues the only - recognized union of italian journalists, shamelessly oriented to the left, that broadcasts, commentators and comedians of an orientation contrary to that of the president of the council host and work quietly on state tv and also on tv owned by the president of the council, without their freedom being threatened. if the italians have any fears and concerns, they have them, as do all europeans, about the crisis, mr president, about illegal immigration, about work and pensions, certainly not about freedom of information which has never been threatened and which is, on the contrary, daily affected by the bias of the left.
mr president, i think that the vote in this house has in a democratic way demonstrated what is a truth that everyone knows, namely that there is freedom of information in italy. you see, the left's attempt was to look for arguments to oppose, why? because in italy, as i said in brussels, they have many newspapers, but they do not know what to write, and so the only thing they could say, by blocking the work of this parliament for a month, was to support the argument that there is no freedom of information in italy. on their many newspapers they cannot write that in italy in four months a government has sent back the earthquake victims of l'aquila to real homes by removing them from the tent cities, on their newspapers they cannot write that in three months in italy the new government led by berlusconi has removed from the streets of naples the garbage that they for years have allowed to accumulate, they cannot say that according to the oecd italy is the country where despite the economic crisis fewer jobs have been lost, they cannot write in their newspapers that in italy despite the crisis no bank has failed and no saver has lost his money, they cannot say it, no one reads them, no one believes them, if they take it with an alleged lack of freedom of information. you know what we say in italy? they are as those that break open the hedge, and the oxen are escaped, and they go seeking the horns: the italian government has lost the votes, the numbers, and they tried to win them back in europe, where they had a majority, but they lost. democracy has once again demonstrated that freedom of information exists in italy, with the goodwill of those who wanted to prove the opposite in europe.
mr president, as usual, we are debating and voting in the european parliament, and therefore not in montecitorio or palazzo madama, on matters of exclusive national interest and relevance. once again, after the accusations against the italian government on immigration issues made in this house by those who in our country are in opposition by the sovereign choice of the people and not by some strange conspiracy of which they feel themselves victims, it has been intended to provide a pretexted, ridiculous and instrumental distortion of italian reality, with the sole aim of denigrating the government and our country in the person of its president berlusconi. minority parties have tried to take advantage of a biased advertising campaign in the elections, filling the ideological and substantive void of their political programme with a campaign aimed at systematically damaging our country in europe. the european colleagues who have supported the italian opposition should concentrate on the issues of their own countries' own interest, and not look at the italian situation through the misguided and misleading eyes of my fellow citizens, who belong to a party which has distinguished itself over the years by having as its only programmatic element the systematic and punctual attack of a president of the council, leader of a democratically elected coalition of 17 million inhabitants.
in writing. mr president, a little over a year ago i sat in this chamber for the first time and was incredibly moved by the deep respect i have for the european institutions and for this house in particular and i deeply regret that this house has been degraded by being forced to waste time in targeted attacks by political parties who use it and mock it for their national and provincial interests. but mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the smaller and more provincial entities in italy that are the greatest demonstration of freedom of the press and information: think of all the local papers, the daily papers of cities big and small, that people read every day and see who they refer to! newspapers like the republic and all the left-wing press. today the european parliament has once again lost the opportunity to have a serious debate on media freedom in europe, a hostage of those who are using this house to attack the president of the italian council.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, elmar brok, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the development of the european external action service is a matter which i know is of great interest to you here in parliament. i have read with great interest and enthusiasm the report by mr elmar brok, which was approved by the committee on constitutional affairs on monday. of course, we on the presidency side fully agree with what elmar brok writes, that the foreign service is indeed the key to our joint work to make european foreign policy an active and more cohesive body so that european policy can be seen in a better way around the world. the idea is to bridge the gap that has existed between the work of the commission and that of the council, so that the union's policies are oriented in the same direction. this is necessary for us to be as efficient as possible. that's why it's important that we give the foreign service the best possible start. this is one of the greatest and most important challenges of the lisbon treaty. there are many pieces of the puzzle to be put in place, and therefore extensive preparatory work is under way in the council. the aim is to enable the european council to agree on a report which the high representative, once appointed, will be able to base on when presenting his proposal on the eeas. in this work, the european parliament will of course be consulted when the high representative presents his proposal. in the meantime, the presidency will ensure that there is a regular dialogue with the european parliament. we have had such a dialogue so far and we will continue to have it. it is important that the european parliament, the council and the commission have regular contact on these issues, not only at the level of officials but also at the political level. immediately after the irish referendum - we are very pleased that the result was a 'yes' - the member states and the commission began a very intensive work to prepare the european external action service. this work is progressing and i am fully confident that we will be able to put forward a number of useful ideas for the future high representative to the european council next week. since it is the high representative's task to present the final proposal, he or she will of course be involved in the work as soon as he or she has been appointed. this is very important so that he or she can also shape the proposal. the presidency will present an agreement of principle covering five major elements. the scope of the eeas's activities, its legal status, staffing, financing and the eu delegations are all covered. we are not yet finished, the discussions are still ongoing, but i would like to share with you some thoughts on how far we have come at the moment, and here there seems to be a great deal of agreement between the council and the commission, and i hope eventually also with the european parliament. as regards the scope of the eeas, it is clear that geographical and thematic 'desk functions' should be established, which have collective responsibility for tasks currently handled by the commission and the council secretariat. the commission will continue to have primary responsibility for trade, aid and enlargement issues, although the exact line of demarcation between the commission and the eeas on aid issues remains to be defined. the member states and the commission further agree that the legal status of the eeas should reflect and support the unique role, sui generis, of the eeas in the eu system. whatever the legal solution that is ultimately reached, it must respect the principles of good administration and accountability. staff will be recruited from the commission, the council secretariat and the member states. this is clearly stated in the treaty of lisbon. all these three categories of staff shall be entitled to take up their duties on equivalent terms. the eu delegations will be placed under the chairmanship of the high representative as soon as the treaty of lisbon enters into force. an important issue in the establishment of the european external action service is the liaison with the european parliament. once in place, the high representative will regularly consult the european parliament on the broad lines and key policy choices of the common foreign and security policy, as well as the common security and defence policy. i am sure that close contacts with the european parliament will also be developed at the level of officials. the european external action service should therefore have a function responsible for liaising with parliament. this is about as far as we've gotten in the discussions. i cannot go into more detail because we are not yet finished with the talks, but we will do everything to keep the european parliament informed of the progress being made. the high representative has not been appointed yet, so the thoughts are just thoughts, nothing more. in the end, it is he or she who will put forward the proposal in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak and look forward to a fruitful debate in which i will of course listen very carefully to parliament's views and answer questions to the best of my ability.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are, i hope, on the very last lap of the process of bringing the treaty of lisbon into force, completing a process which has taken eight years of discussions and negotiations. after the decisive result of the irish referendum, we all hope that the czech ratification can finally follow very soon. if we achieve this on the 20th anniversary of the reunification of europe, it will be a great day for europe and its citizens – not least because we will be able to focus all our attention on the pressing challenges and policy concerns that lie ahead of us. as we reach the final stages, allow me to congratulate parliament, and particularly the constitutional affairs committee, with elmar brok as rapporteur, on delivering its opinion on the key element of the lisbon treaty which is the external european action service. the creation of the eeas offers the european union and all its component institutions the chance to achieve what we have long hoped for: to have a common voice in the world and to strengthen the eu’s influence in the world. mr brok’s report recognises this great potential. together with this important debate and many other consultations with parliament representatives, it provides vital input to our work with the swedish presidency, but also with the member states and the council secretariat, over the coming months. i am happy to confirm that the commission strongly supports the parliament’s overall approach. i agree with the principles of transparency, democracy and coherence that you have just mentioned. it is obviously important that all the institutions work together to help the newly-appointed high representative vice-president in his or her task of preparing the decision on the creation of an eeas – a decision which, as you know, requires the consent of the commission and the consultation of the parliament. firstly, let me mention the status of the eeas. indeed it will be sui generis as there is no model to follow. we are building something new. it will neither be intergovernmental nor purely based on the community method, but we must ensure that the new system has a genuinely european approach inspired by and grounded in the strengths of community policies, as again was mentioned. the key question for us all is what the eeas should be able to deliver. this should be our objective. by bringing together the various actors in the field of external relations, we can ensure that our relations with the outside world are clear, coherent and driven by a single set of policy goals. it must carry authority as the core of eu external policy, the place where policy is developed and coordinated. it must also be seen to be such, both from inside and from outside the european union, and the eeas will only be effective if it works well with other institutions and fully respects the interinstitutional balance. this is why i think it is very important that the eeas should be set up in a way which allows it to work very closely with the commission and the council and to respect the need to be fully accountable to the european parliament. for the parliament, the bringing together of external action responsibilities into a single service will, i believe, mean a step change in parliament’s capacity to fulfil its role of scrutinising union policy. like the service itself, the way in which parliament relates to the service and to the high representative vice-president will also, in a way, have to be sui generis. the creation of the eeas will require a variety of decisions, probably including changes to the financial regulation and the staff regulations, both of which require a commission proposal and adoption through codecision.the high representative vice-president needs the authority to manage the service, but the service also needs to serve the eu system as a whole – most obviously the president of the european commission and the president of the european council, as well as the other commissioners with a role in external relations. it must be able to offer its assistance, both in brussels and in third countries, to the european parliament and to its official delegations which travel abroad. the close involvement of the member states in the new service is one of its key innovations. the coreper ambassadors are looking at how best to ensure that high-quality member states’ diplomats can be brought into the service early. we in the commission are examining how this may be done pending the modification of the staff regulations, and appointment to the service should be through selection procedures based on merit, with appropriate account being taken of the need for a geographic and gender balance. this very much meets the wishes expressed in the report. we also believe that all members of the eeas, whether officials of the eu institutions or member states’ officials on temporary contracts, should enjoy the same rights. they will be equal in every sense. as for the scope of the service, it needs to have a comprehensive overview of the union’s relations with the rest of the world, so it needs geographical desks as well as horizontal services to cover questions such as cfsp and csdp, human rights and relations with un bodies. the aim is to prevent duplication and to ensure that all those responsible for delivering eu external policy work effectively together, and the commission will also continue to have services responsible for trade, development policy, aid implementation, humanitarian aid and enlargement. it will also, of course, continue to drive the external aspects of the union’s key internal policies, and a central question in the current debate is how to manage the programming of external assistance. i can assure parliament that the eu’s development policy, including poverty eradication, will be a central part of the commission’s external activities. the high representative vice-president and the commissioner for development will work extremely closely together on this. the fact that the new high representative will also be a vice-president of the commission, responsible for coordinating all of the eu’s external action, will help. the service will also be responsible for the administration of delegations, though the people inside delegations will come, as now, from different services – not just the eeas, but also the commission services and maybe other institutions and bodies of the european union. from the entry into force of the treaty, commission delegations will become eu delegations. this will give them new responsibilities, but it will not diminish their role in representing the full range of commission activities. the eu delegations should be responsible for representation, coordination and negotiation as from the day the treaty comes into force. in most places, this procedure will go quite smoothly. however, in some, where the workload is particularly heavy, it will be necessary to organise a form of burden-sharing, not only with the rotating presidency but also with other member states. the creation of an entirely new external service is a major undertaking. it will, as your report says, evolve over time. we will learn together. our first aim must be that during the period between the entry into force of the treaty and the coming into being of the eeas, the effective delivery of the eu’s external policies is maintained. we and the council secretariat will work together with the high representative vice-president to ensure that there is no gap. but we need to look further. we will be bringing together officials and diplomats from the different institutions and all the member states. as we know, a common foreign policy is not just the sum of 27 national policies. we need people within the eeas who, while not losing their distinctive national ties, think european. we therefore need to create an eu diplomatic culture and an eu esprit de corps. for this, training is essential. the report raises the promising idea of the creation of a european diplomatic academy. in the mean time, we can make good use of the member states’ diplomatic academies. i very recently attended the 10th anniversary of the european diplomatic programme, which has anticipated and shown the way. it is worth remarking that since the 1970s the commission has already organised training seminars for more than 5 700 diplomats. one of the tasks of the eeas will be to establish a training strategy to ensure that all members, whatever their background, will be equipped to carry out their tasks. heads of delegations in particular will have to be able not only to carry out their political role, but also to handle all the commission activities that are such a substantial part of a delegation’s mandate. mr brok’s report also raises the question of whether consular services might be covered by the eeas. the commission is open to this idea even if it may take some time to develop. these are matters for the future. for the present, it is a challenge for us to ensure that the eeas functions well and in the interests of all: the european citizens, the member states and the european union. the commission supports the creation of the eeas, wants it to succeed, and will contribute in every way possible to ensure that it does so. this report shows that parliament will do the same. i am sorry to have been a little long, but i think this is such an important matter. please forgive me, mr president.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the proposal, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the proposal. but we also feel it is our duty to call for this dialogue now, because the european external action service is one of the most important innovations introduced by the treaty of lisbon and its characteristics are likely to have a significant impact on the rearrangement of european governance and thus on the actual definition of the overall institutional balances of the union. the socialist and democratic group shares the approach of the brok report, to which it has actively contributed. this approach aims to enhance the role that the service can play as a bridge between the community dimension of the union's external action and the intergovernmental dimension of the common foreign and security policy, as defined by title v of the treaty of lisbon. we are, of course, aware of the sui generis nature of the office, which moreover reflects that of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, and we are also aware that the office will not have to include all the services which the commission uses to implement the many dimensions of its external action, which cannot be reduced to the cfsp alone, starting with development cooperation. we believe that it is essential that the office should be able to improve the effectiveness of the union's foreign and security policy and the coherence of its overall external action, and we believe that it should be subject to the democratic control of parliament, and that is why its inclusion in the administrative structure of the commission seems to us the most consistent option with these objectives, which are what we really care about, and that is why we are voting in favour of the brok report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i should first of all thank the rapporteur, who has done a very good job, and as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs i should also thank all the members of the committee and of the two committees which have delivered their opinions, the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, for the work they have done, very fast work. we have tried to prepare a document, which i hope will be adopted and which can be presented to the council on 29 and 30 october. we know very well that this report is not a definitive report, it is only intended to indicate some lines, some orientation, to the council and therefore to the high representative who will be appointed. the high representative will draw up his own draft of the organization which will again have to be examined by us. so these are just the broad outlines that are being presented to our parliament. we also know that the success of this operation involving the external action service is linked to the high representative, who will have to be able to organise and direct all of them. we want a coherent and united foreign policy through him. we know that there are problems, as has already been pointed out, but the problems are there to be solved. the important thing is that the compass, the indication, the aim be clear. the brok report gives some interesting indications in this respect - i must be brief because time is running out - but in the meantime the integration of the office into the administrative structure of the commission, the choice of a further development of the community model, the indication, as the treaty of lisbon says, that staff must be drawn from both the secretariats of the commission and of the council and from the delegations of the commission itself. two developments are worth mentioning: the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to set up a european diplomatic corps, which would be headed by officials from the european external action service, and would also include the commission's delegations in third countries and the council's liaison offices, with the possibility of seconding experts from the directorates-general. my time is up, i only hope that this report will be adopted and adopted by a large majority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that, given the importance of the subject under discussion, parliament should have had more time to express its position to the council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the proposal to establish a european diplomatic service is a step forward from what is strictly provided for in the treaties. moreover, the jea, as set up by the report, seems to be difficult to integrate with the foreign ministries of the member states. what will happen to the latter? will they dissolve? it seems unrealistic. moreover, how will the competences of these embassies, for example on visas, complement the work already done by national embassies? who will appoint the so-called ambassadors of the european union? the commission as it appears, or the national governments? moreover, the fact that the future representations are called 'embassies' is provocative, since the european constitution, which provided for a european foreign minister, was not approved. we cannot pretend that there was no dutch and french 'no' to the european constitution.
in writing. the text we are about to vote on tomorrow provides a good basis for the negotiations ahead. i thank mr brok and mrs neyts for the excellent work they have done in spite of the short time available. on this basis the committee which i have the honour of chairing will be able to engage in constructive but firm dialogue with the future high representative and defend the community character of the new external action service. this is essentially the message we want to send to the commission and the council. we want a service with broad powers, which responds to our ambition to make the european union a global political actor, and we want this to happen on a consensual basis, that is to say with the involvement and support of all three institutions. i therefore urge the commission to be courageous in the negotiations and to defend the community model, and i reiterate my call to the council to involve this parliament, and in particular the committee i chair, from the outset in the negotiations for the achievement of this crucial stage in the creation of a genuine european foreign policy.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the political and social conditions in which the citizens of the islamic republic of iran live. we know of the heavy interference of religion in political decisions and in basic human rights. the last example is the murder of behnud shojai, the young man who was recently executed despite being a minor at the time of the crime. this is the latest in a series of serious human rights violations that have seen the repression of political opponents, homosexuals, journalists, intellectuals and all those who fight for the social and civil growth of iran. the situation worsened under the regime of mahmoud ahmadinejad, who began his presidency by repeatedly denying the holocaust and the right to exist of the state of israel. since 2005, the number of executions in iran has quadrupled, and iran is the only country in the world that executes juvenile offenders. the systematic use of torture in prisons and the use of medieval punishments such as amputation and stoning is well known, but the regime is in trouble and this is demonstrated by the tens of thousands of people who found the courage to take to the streets to protest after the last elections. the young woman, neda agha-soltan, who was killed in the street while she was defending her rights as a woman and a citizen, has become a symbol not only of repression but also of the desire for freedom of a people that europe must help. what do you mean, "what"? for example, with the european instrument for democracy and human rights. another concrete proposal is to name streets or squares in our cities after neda agha-soltan. this would not only commemorate his sacrifice, but would also be a sign of solidarity with the iranian opposition and would increase the awareness and information of european citizens about such a serious situation. i would like to see the portrait of neda agha-soltan next to the image of aung san suu kyi on the façade of the european parliament in brussels. one final thought: but what credibility can president ahmadinejad have in the nuclear negotiations when he persecutes and offends his own people who are demanding more democracy, more freedom and more respect for human rights?
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 22 october 2009.
it is with deep sadness that i learned of the death on 17 october of our former colleague, lady diana elles, who was a member of the european parliament from 1973 to 1989 and served as vice-president of the european parliament from 1982 to 1987 and as chairman of the legal affairs committee. i invite you to rise and observe a minute of silence in memory of our late colleague. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 22 october 2009. the following amendment was tabled by agreement of the political groups: wednesday: the title of the commission statement on the political situation in honduras in view of the elections on 29 november 2009 shall be amended as follows: the commission's statement on the political situation in honduras.
fellas, point this out to anyone else who's got the same problem: i thank you, but i ask you not to interfere. we can write down your wishes for each of you, but for the purpose of voting and counting the votes, these wishes cannot be valid. it may be taken only in the minutes but not for the purpose of counting the votes. i am sorry, but you must always carry your ballot with you, because you can vote at any time. (parliament rejected the proposal) (the order of business is as follows) for other changes to the agenda: see the minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.15 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a serious judgment of the strasbourg court a few days ago marked a very serious vulnus on which the european commission has expressed itself in an exaggeratedly cautious manner by preventing the italian state from displaying crucifixes in school classrooms. the question is not so much a religious principle as a principle of freedom: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. now, if the morning comes, there is reason to fear what will be the outcome of the matter with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. that is a danger we must beware of. the commission should have reacted much more firmly, also because in the face of the choral protest - today there was a cross-cutting meeting of the italian political forces represented here - which represents the sense and the deep sensitivity of our people towards this belonging, which is metapolitical, metareligious and cultural, in the sense of a great philosopher who taught us with the important phrase "we cannot but call ourselves christians". the appointments are very important. today, the agencies are reading a corollary of meeting notes; we do not even know whether there will be an extraordinary meeting in brussels. but i wonder: looking at the names that are circulating - for example, i limit myself to three, balkenende, miliband and van rompuy - but is it possible that no one ever notices that all three are attendees of meetings of either the bilderberg group or the trilateral? i believe that we must establish principles of transparency, so often expressed in words by our institutions, and we must ask these people clearly whether they are the candidates of their country and their political forces or of these hidden groups that meet behind closed doors and decide on the skin and the heads of the people.
i would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that a delegation from the senate of the federation of malaysia is in the gallery, and i warmly welcome them. the delegation is led by h.e. dató wong foon meng, president of the senate. i would like to remind you that relations between the european parliament and the malaysian parliament are regular and fruitful. malaysia has a vibrant society, a thriving economy and an important role in the association of southeast asian nations (asean). therefore, it is again a pleasure for me and for all of us to welcome our friends and our colleagues in the senate: we hope your visit will be very fruitful.
the agenda includes the continuation of the discussion on the european council report and the commission statement on the conclusions of the european council of 29 and 30 october 2009, including the mandate and powers of the president of the european council and the high representative for the common foreign and security policy/vice-president of the commission, as well as the structure of the new commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the swedish presidency for the key achievements it has made during the six months of the year. but at the same time, i would like to address the swedish presidency with a gift: the presentation of this white paper is an extraordinary tool which you can use in these days to overcome the difficulties in identifying candidates for the posts of president of the european council and high representative for foreign affairs. if he can convince the heads of government to write on this paper, not the names that are being chased in the newspapers and on television, but their idea of the union's foreign policy, then we will have made a significant step forward, because if they make it clear to us whether they are thinking, for example, of greater coordination or of a real foreign policy, it will then be easy to give a face and a name to those who will represent us in the world. this is the real transparency we need: the european union's foreign policy is a matter for the member states themselves. it is therefore essential that the choice be made of personalities who embody the spirit and values of the european project, someone who can ensure that europe plays a leading role in international relations, which, in order to be effective, must necessarily reaffirm the ideals of its founders, the only true unifying and therefore disruptive element on the world stage. the european union is not a monolithic bloc but the result of the actions of men and, as such, it must be renewed over time in order to survive. europe must start again from the values on which it was founded, from the good results we have achieved so far and, believe me, from a good dose of realism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the swedish presidency for the work it has done and for having succeeded in setting the conditions for the final ratification of the treaty of lisbon. we need the new treaty very much because it gives us the opportunity to strengthen and extend powers, for example the powers of this parliament, and two new figures, capable of representing a political and institutional synthesis. we hope that the council will be able to interpret wisely the requests of the great european political families, so that at the next meeting the names of the personalities to be appointed to the new institutional posts provided for in the treaty will be defined with authority and strong agreement. what do we need? we need a president of the council who can guarantee cohesion and continuity. we need a high representative who, in a multipolar world, can, by virtue of his experience and authority, ensure that europe plays a leading role and, at the same time, provides a link between the intergovernmental and community dimensions of the union. and again, we need a strong and united college of commissioners, politically, geographically and gender-balanced. it is particularly significant that this is happening twenty years after the fall of the wall, the wall that divided europe, and all this can rekindle hopes for a united, strong europe that continues to animate the demands of solidarity and justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon and the appointment of the members of the council take place just 20 years after the fall of the wall. the fall of the wall was the beginning of the real europe. twenty years ago a wall was torn down, a concrete wall, but full of prejudice, tyranny and hunger for many people in the east, and today we no longer have to celebrate the fall of the wall but we have to ask ourselves what to do after that wall. in fact, other walls have been erected in the meantime: the wall between countries in the north and countries in the south of the planet; between more civilized and poorer countries; between countries producing products and countries producing ideas; walls much higher and harder to break, which can cause great hardship and war for all of humanity. that is why the appointments to the european council, which will have to be made after lisbon, cannot be made by a few appointments in secret chambers. anyone who wants to make a contribution and to stand as a candidate must let the european parliament and the whole of europe know what he wants to do and what he is capable of doing. if we break down the wall of nomination, whereby future candidates are chosen on the basis of national balances and not on the merits of the candidates, we shall have at last made europe a nation.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall abstain on this motion for a resolution because i think it is somewhat contradictory. the resolution notes the vast improvement in economic cooperation between russia and europe over the past decade. the european union is also calling on the united states to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the united states. while we are asking for all these things, we are also strongly criticising the internal situation in russia in the same resolution. there is a climate of hostility and mistrust towards russia which is not a good basis for the cooperation we are asking for. this does not mean turning a blind eye to the situation of democracy or human rights in that country: but i believe that support and trust are more needed than criticism at this time, precisely to improve the human rights situation inside russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the services directive represents for europe the completion of a process whose ultimate aim is precisely the completion of the internal market in order to facilitate trade within the european union in this area, to enable administrations to coordinate their efforts and, above all, to minimise the transaction costs between the different operations within the different sectors and the different states. the harmonization of the content of the various administrative procedures and the facilitation of the freedom of establishment of service providers in other member states automatically means the development of growth and therefore also stimulating growth in a period of particular crisis such as this. the services directive, adopted by the european parliament and the council on 12 december 2006, is fully in line with the lisbon strategy, which has been revised over time and adapted to the various circumstances that europe has experienced over the past nine years, and whose main objective is to make the european economy the most competitive in the world, but based on a knowledge-based economy. the economic crisis we are experiencing, which the european union is facing at institutional level, skillfully agreeing the various interventions even with the individual member states, requires even more of a correct and immediate application of the services directive than there was at the time of its adoption. the deadline of 28 december 2009 for transposing the services directive is therefore not only an indication of the moment when it was decided to naturally move from ratification to the legislative process of this directive but above all represents an important step towards a europe increasingly aware of its own means and in particular increasingly able to make the best use of its own resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are about to launch is very important for two reasons: the first is the subject of research into the fight against neurodegenerative diseases and the second is the way in which joint research planning is carried out. we would have obviously preferred, as has been said and is the subject of our question, a more direct involvement of parliament in the pilot project. if we are not to stop now and if we are to move forward, we are asking for guarantees that our views will be taken into account in the implementation of the competitiveness council, and that a more secure legal basis will be established for the future for full involvement of parliament and for more complete ownership in this area of research. we must now act with the means and resources to prevent and eradicate such widespread scourges as alzheimer's, parkinson's and other diseases, which are bound to increase as our population ages. we ask that you focus on large, large-scale studies, both for diagnosis and for finding cures. research on biomarkers, early diagnosis methods based on a multidisciplinary approach, the establishment of large databases, the search for curative drugs and appropriate models of care and services seem to be fundamental. i have only one request to make in this chamber: the subjectivity of the patients, too often excluded in this type of disease, and the involvement of patient and family associations are not neglected. from a methodological point of view, we believe that joint research projects are very important, because they meet a fundamental need, that of concentrating efforts and resources and overcoming those fragmentations, those duplications and being able to do so with a critical mass sufficient to give appropriate results to this type of research. if we consider that in other parts of the world joint public and private efforts amount to tens of millions of euros, we realise how much remains to be done and how much we still have to do, converging on shared projects, on shared strategic lines and programmes between the states and europe and on joint programmes between public and private actors, without neglecting that international framework which puts us in contact with the major scientific realities at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion of neurodegenerative diseases allows me to introduce the problem of multiple sclerosis and als and to inform this house that at this moment 150 people throughout italy have begun a hunger strike in solidarity with salvatore usala, a patient with als who has stopped eating to protest the italian government's disregard for the problems of patients and their families living with this terrible disease. this is a battle also supported by national parliamentarians such as antonietta farina and our alde colleague niccolò rinaldi. but above all, it is the struggle that als patients and their families live with every day, in a dignified and silent way, in the drama of a terrible disease. als affects young people and there is no cure for als but the italian state is very attentive to everything but the patients and their families. research is a challenge for europe, but it is up to the states to ensure a dignified existence.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am happy to have the opportunity today to address you in plenary session on the proposal for a regulation on origin marking. this is a proposal which honourable members may recall the parliament has been a strong supporter of since its adoption by the college as long ago as december 2005. i particularly recall your resolution of july 2006 and the written declaration of september 2007. i was privileged to discuss this issue last month in strasbourg with a group of meps who stressed to me the need to move rapidly to adopt this regulation. i think honourable members would agree that it is of fundamental importance that trade policy not only strengthens the opportunities that open markets can offer but also addresses the concerns globalisation generates not just for consumers, but also, and perhaps particularly, for small enterprises. origin marking should therefore be considered in that spirit. in the 2007 declaration you emphasised the right of european consumers to have clear and immediate information about their purchases. that is precisely what this regulation is about. it aims to allow eu consumers to be fully aware of the country of origin of the products that they purchase. the commission has proposed a compulsory indication of the country of origin of certain products imported into the european union from third countries. not all products are covered – we focused on those of real interest, following a broad consultation with consumers and with industry. origin marking, i might add, is fully in line with the current wto rules and principles and something that exists almost everywhere in the world. imports into the united states, into canada, china and japan are subject to country-of-origin marking. as a matter of fact, most products that you can currently purchase in shops in the european union already bear the country-of-origin mark, as most legal systems currently require it. this means, of course, that for the vast majority of businesses an obligation to mark products exported to the european union will entail no additional cost. since 2006, discussions have been held in council in order to reach an agreement on the commission proposal. a number of member states remain to be convinced. they are worried that the administrative burden and the costs of an origin marking scheme may outweigh the benefits. we have taken due note of those concerns, and we have recently presented concrete options that we believe address those issues. this is not a new formal proposal; it is an attempt to find common ground and reach a compromise. a commission options paper was discussed with the member states in the article 133 committee on 23 october 2009. first of all, the commission asked the member states to consider the option of narrowing the product coverage – so as to include only end-consumer goods. the original list contained some intermediate products, such as raw skin and certain textiles, that are not of direct interest to the consumer. the commission suggests now to include only those goods that consumers can find in retail stores. secondly, the commission suggested that the scheme be launched on a pilot project basis. any continuation would be subject to an evaluation of the impact the proposed scheme had. this would allow for an assessment of the impact on cost and on price – it may also of course give some indication of how we could modify the product coverage of the regulation. i am pleased to say that the member states have received our options paper with interest. although not all doubts have been resolved and several member states have maintained their opposition in principle to this proposal, they are ready to study the issue further and the work will continue over the next few weeks at both experts meetings level and in the article 133 committee. i sincerely hope this will clear the way for a compromise solution. as honourable members know, the new article 207 of the treaty of lisbon gives parliament new and increased authority on legislative measures in the field of trade policy – and the ‘made in’ regulation could be one of the first to appear on honourable members’ desks. i am therefore very interested in keeping you closely involved in the further discussions on this important subject, and look forward to our brief debate now.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too have some problems, not only for interpreters but also for those who want to follow the debate, perhaps with some concrete answers, compared to a problem that has been dragging on since 2005. as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, for many years our main competitors and economic partners have had a designation of origin for products entering their territory. on the other hand, the european union, despite the 2005 proposal for a regulation, which was supported by a broad consensus of consumers and civil society groups, is still without a definition and despite the favourable opinion expressed by parliament on several occasions. the absence of a regulation on the definition of the origin of products infringes the rights of citizens and consumers and prevents the proper functioning of the market, which, in order to be free, must have common and shared rules. the committee has examined the hypotheses for reducing the categories of goods in the regulation and for suggesting the application for the experimental period. we ask the commissioner: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. will they be the subject of further meditation? will you continue to support the 2005 proposal for a regulation, including in the context of the codecision procedure, together with parliament? what guarantees and timetables does the commission offer at the end of this long and painful debate? finally, commissioner, in thanking you for what you have done with great activism and determination, can you confirm to me what you wrote in your reply to my question of 5 november 2009, namely that the commission will continue to strongly support the adoption of the proposal submitted in 2005 and that the commission will continue in its commitment?
i am not going to go into all the reasons which underlie our repeated request as a parliament. i would remind you that - and you have already mentioned this yourself, madam commissioner - mr muscardini and i were the only two people in 2006 to sign the resolution in which parliament supported the initiative of then commissioner mandelson in december 2006. we were confident that the initiative you took of partial amendments to reach a compromise of a few weeks ago could be supported more strongly, also in committee 133. we regret, moreover, that many countries expressed their displeasure or distrust at that meeting, including the representative of the british government. what we want to do today is simply to remind you that this demand is not based on a demand for protectionism. we do not want to defend industries which are no longer able to compete on the international market, but we want to defend consumers, we want to bring to the fore the issue of health, the environment and a genuine reciprocity in the world market, which is lacking today. and it's not just the weakest in the world project that are lacking: the european union has a duty, in this time of economic difficulties, to defend the community interest which is also behind this request. we therefore hope that parliament will give its full support to the initiatives which the commission intends to take and we also want the commitments made a few weeks ago to be followed through to the end, even if it were necessary to conclude this procedure not by christmas but with the new procedure provided for by the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in support of what my predecessors have said and also taking up the questions raised by mrs muscardini, i would like to draw on an image from a book by italo calvino, who describes the big bang in his book 'le cosmicomiche' as an indistinct mass of matter where nothing is known about anyone and nothing about anyone's origin. at one point a lady says: "but if i had some space, i could make you noodles and pizza". this generates great excitement in the mass of matter: you want to make space, and you get to a world of differences that is the universe today. it seems to me that in our global market we are returning to a mass of products that are indistinct, whose origin and, of course, the characteristics with which they were made are unknown to the consumer. as liberal democrats, we are extremely attached to the system and the principle of free trade but also to that of transparency and traceability of products. as has already been said, this is not so much a problem of international trade as of consumer protection. we renew our support for the 2005 proposal and - i repeat - i join the questions put to you by mrs muscardini.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are part of an industrial system at european level where the reputation of products depends very much on the integrity of the production system. by keeping at least part of our manufacturing in europe, we can really offer our consumers controlled and high quality products. it is in the interest of all of us to continue to do so, by giving consumers the opportunity to be fully aware of what we are producing and where it comes from. to achieve this, we need something very simple but essential: the commissioner also stressed that the eu's policy on the environment was based on the principle of transparency, a concept which underpins the rules on origin labelling, which were approved by parliament in 2006 and are already widely used in the world's major markets, as the commissioner had previously pointed out, such as the united states, mexico and china. nevertheless, the 'made in' approach has not yet been welcomed by some member states of the european union. we believe that if a product is made in china, as in any other non-european country, regardless of its quality, often good, the european consumer must be able to know where the product is made in order to make an informed choice. some might interpret the need for transparency as overprotectionism and believe that this could result in higher costs for industry: well, that's not the case at all. the absence of origin labelling on products imported at european level, unlike in china, the united states and australia, makes it more difficult for european products to compete in a globalised international market. for all these reasons, safeguarding the idea of a product made with the best that europe has to offer is the first essential step towards recognition at the level of the individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, clarity, clarity, clarity: the commission has not yet decided on the matter. this is what the market is asking for today, with rules that guarantee transparency for the protection of consumers. the free market is also marked by clear rules which, through transparent mechanisms, give all consumers the opportunity to choose. that's what we're here to ask for today. that's what we're calling for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. consumers must also be able to choose, knowing clearly where certain products come from. that's what you're asking. i think it is time that, with great determination and with great speed, rules are adopted as soon as possible which will enable consumers to make their choices in a clear and transparent way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the ombudsman, as chairman of the committee on petitions, on behalf of all the members of the committee, for his work and for his timely report. i would like to thank mr paliadeli for his excellent contribution to the work of our committee and all those who took part in the debate, for showing interest and concern in ensuring that these instruments of democracy and participation are implemented and achieve the objective set out in the treaties. examination of the 2008 report of the european ombudsman shows that, unfortunately, the principle enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights is still far from its objective of full implementation. the right exercised by 3 406 european citizens during 2008 to complain to the ombudsman about maladministration shows a growing level of dissatisfaction, compared with 3 211 in 2007. i believe that this number should be compared with the level of knowledge and awareness and therefore i would reiterate, contrary to what was said by the honourable member who spoke earlier, that these figures show a high level of dissatisfaction on the part of the citizens. and it is partly comforting to note that only a part of these figures has been considered to be the responsibility of the european ombudsman, because a large part of the complaints not acquired by the european ombudsman have been transferred to other bodies, including the committee on petitions which i chair. what we have to take care of - i believe - as european institutions and in particular as parliament is also the perception of administrative correctness, how correct our institutions are perceived to be. however, while the positive response to the increased functionality of the european ombudsman remains unchanged, given the greater number of cases successfully resolved, we as a parliament have been the recipient of about 10% of complaints and as a committee the recipient of 60%... (the president called the speaker back to order) i would just like to add that, since he gave someone else a little more time, i thought i could give myself a few more seconds as president, also as president, that these institutions have a duty to go forward on the road to improving these instruments of democracy and participation, because we also have the treaty of lisbon which introduces the popular initiative. i believe that we must improve, without changing, the functions of these bodies; we have a duty to improve the effectiveness and productivity of the tools we have given to the citizens if we are to really contribute to building the europe of the peoples.
i thank mr durant for giving us the assignments for the weekend, which we will certainly carry out with great care and diligence.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i fully understand your statement, mr president. i would point out, however, that the council can be present at any time during our meetings. so it's his faculty, no need for invitations.
i am pleased to welcome a delegation of members and other visitors from the canadian parliament and the canadian mission to the european union, who have taken their seats in the gallery. the members of the delegation are in brussels to meet their counterparts in the european parliament for the 32nd interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and canada. on monday and tuesday of this week they had the opportunity to discuss with many of our members and yesterday they visited the town of ypres on the occasion of the commemoration of the armistice. i wish the delegation a successful continuation of their stay in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw parliament's attention to the rules on business transfers contained in directive 2001/23/ec. i say this because eutelia spa, an italian telecommunications and information technology company, has among its clients very important companies and not only the bank of italy, the italian chamber of deputies and the italian senate, for example, and participates in the schengen project. so, he's handling some very sensitive data. in may 2009 eutelia virtually closed the it branch of its subsidiary agile, which had a fund of only eur 96000 for a total of 2000 employees, and subsequently, in october 2009, 1,192 people were reached by letters of dismissal. these people continue to work despite having received letters of dismissal, and the absurd thing is that the rule i was referring to earlier requires specific requirements for entrepreneurship that a branch of the company acquires ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the result achieved today on the 'telecommunications package' is a source of great satisfaction as it strengthens the rights of internet users and encourages competition between telephone companies. the new rules will guarantee more rights for consumers, unconditional access to the internet and the protection of personal data. it's a great example of how our work as legislators impacts the daily lives of citizens. the internet is becoming, for the first time in the world, the exercise of a fundamental right and freedom. as such, it will be in addition to and will be shaped in proportion to and in respect of the other fundamental freedoms already existing and guaranteed by the treaty: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. any measure restricting internet access will now be able to be imposed only if deemed "appropriate, proportionate and necessary" in a democratic society. today, we said yes to absolute freedom of the internet, yes to the promotion of an e-civil society, yes to the promotion of fundamental rights and best practices, yes to the identification and isolation of all those people, pedophiles and sexual abusers in the first place, who will try to abuse this absolute freedom.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be speaking on the european crime prevention network. this network was established in 2001 by council decision 2001/427/jha. the objectives of this network were to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information and experience at national and european level, to collect and analyse relevant information, particularly for the purpose of exchanging best practice, to organise conferences, seminars, meetings and initiatives aimed at encouraging the exchange of experience and best practice, and also to provide advice to the council and the commission on crime prevention. the decision provided that the structure would be based on contact points designated by the commission and the member states, which should include at least one representative of the national authorities, while the other contact points could be designated from among researchers or specialised university teachers. however, member states were required to involve researchers, academics, ngos and civil society. even europol and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction were involved as competent bodies. in 2005, the network underwent its first internal structural reform, which consistently provided for two committees one on the work programme and one on research while the management of the website was transferred from the european commission to the united kingdom, which still maintains it. in 2007 there was another review, which established the need to strengthen the secretariat first, also highlighting the need to address the issue of resources for standing committees and national representatives. in march 2009, an external evaluation of the operation of the network was published, which highlighted the importance of the objectives with which the network was created and, unfortunately, highlighted the organizational failure that prevented the achievement of the important objectives mentioned above. among the problems highlighted, which have led to the virtual collapse of the network, were the lack of appropriate resources, an ineffective secretariat, a lack of commitment from national representatives and a very poor work programme. the evaluation also considered the possibility of dismantling the network. it therefore set up a working group to examine the recommendations made in march 2009 and considered that amendments to the networking act were necessary. in particular, an external secretariat financed from the funds of community programmes was proposed. although some member states have raised the idea of dismantling the network, others have proposed reforming it. the swedish presidency of the council of the european union has taken up this proposal to the extent that it has become a priority in its six-month term of office. at this point i can only emphasize my personal embarrassment at seeing these empty seats, since it was the swedish presidency that had made these proposals its own. the proposal provides for the network to be composed of a secretariat, contact points designated by each member state and an administrative board. this board should be composed of national representatives appointed by the member states and chaired by a chairman who heads an executive committee. i think there is also a kind of confusion in this respect between the contact points and the national representatives. they are, by the way - and this is a very serious matter - completely cut off from the involvement of the world of civil society, the academic world, the world of experience and therefore the experts. the structural links between the network and the other community institutions and bodies dealing with crime and crime prevention are being completely cut. the decision does not provide for any form of cooperation with the european parliament and omits the requirement of knowledge of languages, which had been previously required. as rapporteur, i believe that this proposal is totally inefficient and is not able to tackle crime prevention for a number of reasons. first, it has not been able to achieve the objectives for which it was set up; secondly, there has been no cooperation between the commission, the council and the member states, and i think this is to be seen as a kind of sabotage of the network itself. crime prevention cannot be reduced to the exchange of best practices. unfortunately, we have witnessed almost a form of tourism of various officials going to the various countries on a visit and often not even being able to talk to each other because there was no form of translation. the lack of involvement of civil society and ngos, and the lack of development of prevention materials such as school papers, make this network totally inefficient. i believe that the network's powers should be strengthened to make it work, including the fight against crime and the prevention of organised crime. i therefore propose that the proposal be rejected, which could have been accepted only if the council had put forward a really ambitious proposal, which unfortunately did not come through.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the request to the council for approval of the draft exchange of information between europol and its partners, including third countries, the following is noted: the draft, if approved, would create the absurd situation of regulating, among other things, the exchange of information between europol and third countries, without parliament having yet approved the list of those countries. the draft, in describing the processing of personal data, seems to foreshadow the creation of a genuine unlimited database, which could even be available to third parties not yet defined by parliament. the council's draft states in article 15 (2) that in cases of absolute necessity, even beyond the possibility of a crime, data may be transmitted which reveal racial origin, ethnic origin, political opinions, religious and philosophical convictions, trade union membership, etc., without specifying what is meant by absolute necessity and, even worse, endorsing the idea that races exist. it would be interesting if the council clarified what a race is and what races are. as far as i am concerned, i believe that there is only one race of human beings, and that is the human race. for these reasons, but also to assert the autonomy of parliament, which must act within the time limit, i believe that the council's draft, under the present conditions, can only be rejected within the required deadline of 30 november.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very interesting debate this evening has given us some very important insights, particularly on the european crime prevention network. firstly, with the lisbon treaty, parliament's role in the codecision procedure must be increasingly important, and this in two directions. the first is culture: the first thing that organised crime and the mafia do is to defeat each other with information and culture. a great italian magistrate, giovanni falcone, who was killed by the mafia, said that the mafia is a phenomenon that has a beginning and also an end. the end must be a great cultural mobilization, which must also start from europe and from parliament. a second point is that organized crime must be tackled more effectively, first of all by the creation of a european public prosecutor, and i think also by the introduction of certain very serious crimes, which are only provided for in certain member states of the union. i am referring, for example, to mafia crimes. we must understand that the mafia emergency is a european emergency, because the mafia has the capacity to penetrate very deeply into the institutions. there is a very close link between the mafia and corruption, as has been stated in recent reports, and fraud against the european union, as the court of auditors has also recently told us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur on one of the europol dossiers, i can only repeat what has already been said by my predecessors. europol, through its functions of gathering, analysing and exchanging information, facilitates investigations in the member states, thus becoming an important tool in the fight against crime. if we are to be more effective in the fight against crime, we must also make a strong demand for the powers of this parliament. the council decided that it would adopt the europol package texts on 30 november, without waiting for the european parliament to obtain codecision on the matter with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december. the rejection of the proposals is not intended to block the entry into operation of europol as a new european body, but to recognise that this parliament, the european parliament, has extended its powers, especially on important issues relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. finally, i think it is right to give parliament greater control over europol's activities to ensure that the processing of data held by europol's services does not infringe the rights of european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the members who took part in the debate and, above all, i would like to thank commissioner barrot for sharing our concerns. our rejection proposals are not unjustified, they do not want to be a simple 'no' to the council. we would like to take part, because the treaty of lisbon will enter into force in a few days' time, and i believe that the co-decision role of this parliament is fundamental. i personally asked the council to present, immediately after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, a proposal which was much more ambitious than the european crime prevention network. this proposal did not come. it is therefore absolutely necessary and obligatory to reject the proposal and i believe that parliament has the right to act in full co-decision, especially on such important issues. i thank mr nicholson for what he said about the role of the victims and the role of the executioners, roles which have too often been reversed. in the few months i have been in the european parliament, i have seen how the european parliament and the european union have attached extraordinary importance to the fight against terrorism, while unfortunately the will to tackle not only the fight against crime but also the organized crime that is at the root of crime is lacking. we cannot imagine fighting or preventing crime without assuming a more complex task of repression and prevention than organized crime and the mafia, as mr de magistris has reminded us by quoting the extraordinary words of judge falcone, who was killed by the mafia. with that said, i'd like to make a very small step as someone who unfortunately has had this experience on their own. too often, not only is there confusion between victim and executioner, but there are governments - and unfortunately the italian state does not pay much attention to this - that put on the agenda different types of victims of the same crime. victims of terrorism are treated one way, victims of the mafia another. i believe that these differences and discriminations cannot continue to exist, because in a europe which wants to base its policy on innovation, these differences cannot be tolerated.
in writing. the lisbon treaty significantly shifts the institutional balances established by the maastricht treaty in the area of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, introducing, with important exceptions, the ordinary legislative procedure for the area of freedom, security and justice. it is therefore necessary that any amendments to the measures implementing the europol decision be adopted within the framework of the new regulatory framework provided for by lisbon. europol cannot be strengthened without this parliament being able to express itself adequately on regulations which do not concern purely technical enforcement measures but political ones, such as the transfer of personal data. let me add to this a reflection on the union's growing external profile and the intensification of the synergy between internal security and defence. although the treaty will not have immediate consequences on the development of security and defence markets, it envisages the development of a more integrated and cohesive security market, which requires coordinated legislative action and thus interinstitutional action. it would therefore be all the more inconsistent, if not harmful, to adopt 'political' amendments to the provisions implementing the europol decision without following the regulatory process laid down by lisbon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course respect your decisions, but i believe that we have heard that you have made a reservation about certain amendments which are not directly related to the lisbon treaty. i may be wrong, but it seems to me that the committee on constitutional affairs has already had a general power to make proposals for regulatory changes throughout its history. it can do so if it is suggested by a group of members or by individual members and it can also do so on its own initiative. the fact that, in the context of a wider reform of the regulation, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, it has taken the opportunity to make some corrections also in other respects does not seem to me to be something that can be considered unacceptable, especially since many amendments are suitable for transferring the spirit of lisbon into the regulation, sometimes through rules which are technically and materially reproduced in the regulation, but much more often by referring to the spirit of the treaty. it is enough to think of the role of parliament, which is strengthened in relation to the council but which is also strengthened by the regulation as regards internal relations with the institutions within parliament itself. of course, mr president, we will respect your decisions, but i felt it was my duty to make these remarks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by approving the martin report, the european parliament is fulfilling an inescapable task in view of the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and it is doing so with a precise and accurate text which accurately incorporates into our rules of procedure the important innovations introduced by a new treaty as regards the increased role of the european parliament in the legislative, budgetary and more general institutional balance of the union. among these innovations i would like to mention those relating to the procedures for revising the treaties and the proactive role of parliament, as well as those relating to the role of the national parliaments which give the european parliament a special responsibility in terms of its ability to make this increased role a source of further democratic legitimacy for the construction of europe, rather than a bureaucratic obstacle. the president's decision to deal with the question of amendments not directly related to the task assigned to this report is a positive one, because there will then be time to examine the question of a more comprehensive revision of our rules of procedure in a more systematic and more systematic way. this does not mean that, while there are elements which can be eliminated in relation to the work done in the committee on constitutional affairs, there are others which can be usefully added. i refer to the importance of the amendment which stresses that the question of observers must be dealt with in the light of the fact that these observers must be chosen from among the candidates for the elections to the european parliament who are among the first of the non-elected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a real change in the nature of our institutions, of the european institutions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. that is why i believe that what is really at stake is, paradoxically, a strengthening of the federal dimension as well as the subsidiary dimension of the european union. this is a decisive fact for our future, all the more so since at this stage we have not sufficiently taken into account the figure of the citizen as a person, that is, as the centre and the end of political action. i want to explain. the level of harmonization we have achieved is satisfactory, and europe plays a major role in the lives of our citizens. however, instead of putting the individual, the family and intermediate groups at the centre of policy, the european union and the member states have often used subsidiarity to promote the interests of the institutions. the protection of the principle of subsidiarity, as expressed in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, is therefore more crucial than ever. we need a monitoring system to ensure that the legislative proposals submitted to parliament are really evaluated, especially as regards respect for the principle of subsidiarity, which is the starting point for institutions that are guarantors and not masters of the lives of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting a pitiful veil over the incredible sum of 30 billion euros per year until 2020 that the union would commit to allocate to emerging countries, essentially a lost cause. we italians are reminded of the infamous cassa del mezzogiorno. our amendments deal with three points. first, we are calling for legally binding and equally ambitious commitments, not only for the other industrialized countries, but also for the emerging economies, first of all china, india and brazil. secondly, we ask that any european funds which these countries may receive be made conditional on the use of technology 'made in the european union', so that our companies can at least partially be reimbursed for the additional and heavy emission reduction commitments which the union requires them to bear at their own expense. thirdly, we ask that the invention of innovative financial mechanisms not be used to create new financial speculation - for example, derivatives on the ets, or debt-for-nature swaps - which is a relic of the very serious crisis from which we have not yet emerged. that is why, if our amendments are rejected, our delegation - the northern league delegation - will vote against this resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, minister carlgren, commissioner dimas, this morning i would like to speak about an 84-year-old missionary, father ettore turrini, who has already spent 59 years in the north-west of the amazon. he has always fought to defend the indians and their forests against those who would destroy them for short-term gain. to shoot in the forest father ettore had seven plane crashes, but he went ahead and collected tens of thousands of signatures for this activity, which he will submit to president lula, many ministers and the president of the napolitano republic. he was relentless. we met last sunday and i told him that i fully share his position, but that perhaps the world is waking up and coming to the conclusion that these forests are essential as the lungs of the world, for the local climate and also for the capture and sequestering of carbon. i told him that in copenhagen we would also find the resources to compensate those countries which respect the forests in their integrity. i told him that we're developing gps and inspire tracking tools to measure how governments are doing, and that by 2030, we're going to stop deforestation. in copenhagen we will be able to do all this and i will also be attending the summit for father turrini.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in a few weeks i shall have the honour of being part of the official delegation that this parliament will send to copenhagen for the united nations conference on climate change. after the milestones of rio de janeiro in 1992 and kyoto in 1997, a new global climate conference, which could prove to be of historic importance, will begin on 7 december. i said 'may', madam president, because in the last days of the apec summit, the united states and china seem to have decided to reduce the scope of the copenhagen meeting. but there is still time before the summit, and it is in the interest of all actors to get there with concrete goals and programmes, so as not to disappoint the great expectations of making another step forward in the fight against climate change. the polluter pays principle must apply to all. europe has always been a leader and the climate and energy package of the last legislature is a clear example of this. we've said it many times before: the usa, china, india, russia and brazil also have to take responsibility as the biggest polluters. if this does not happen, we will be burdening our european companies with unnecessary costs and, above all, without the contribution of these countries, copenhagen too would risk being a missed opportunity. in conclusion, tackling climate change is also a necessary requirement towards achieving - or perhaps i should say approaching - the millennium development goals. we need to combat desertification, climate change and violent natural phenomena if we are to halve extreme poverty, fight epidemics and ensure that everyone has access to water, which is essential.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing for the copenhagen conference with a resolution which shows that we are aware that all the geographical areas of the world must be involved in tackling climate change policies. and it is the responsibility of the industrialized countries to establish with the developing countries not only the objectives to be achieved but also the means to be used. we have done a good job in this parliament. the resolution indicates concrete instruments and it is important to have quantified the interventions. the figure of eur 30 billion proposed by us by 2020 can be considered an important, if minimal, figure to support the initiatives of developing countries. yesterday, the un negotiator, de boer, called for $10 billion by 2012. after the us and china, europe must take on new responsibilities and lead the fight against climate change.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme document is reductive in comparison with the conclusions of the european council itself and does not take into account, for example, important requests made by the italian government on specific issues. the document does not cover a number of european strategies to attack the assets of organised crime. i have heard, and have heard for a long time, many words about different disturbing aspects of crime. we must move from words to deeds. europe should do as italy does, which is an example for all europe in the aggression against mafia assets, thanks to minister maroni. europe does not seem to want to move in the same direction. we must create a single european legal system if we are to combat at european level a crime which has become international and moves freely between banks, tax havens, financial centres and the property and property markets. there is also little attention to the fight against immigration at europe's southern border, where for example the agreement with libya, which now works for italy, could find difficulties if the european union does not maintain its commitment to co-finance the satellite tracking system of the southern libyan border through which there is a large transit of illegal immigrants. finally, as regards the incident of racism against a black person, i would like to recall the many, many, equally serious incidents of anti-white racism that take place in the illegal immigration enclaves, not to mention the 'white man hunt' that is taking place in the mugabe regime or even in south africa itself. those who talk so much about anti-black racism should also remember anti-european and anti-white racism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on constitutional affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, has asked me to be the rapporteur on this document, together with the rapporteurs of the committee on civil liberties and the committee on legal affairs, which are jointly sitting. it is the first time that article 51 of the rules of procedure has been applied and i must say that, from my point of view, the result has been extremely satisfactory in terms of the cooperation with which the three rapporteurs have carried out their work. there have indeed been some problems, some serious ones, with regard to the timing and above all the involvement of the shadow rapporteurs and the timely translation of the amendments, which were almost 500. but this is not due to article 51 itself, but rather to the very short time we had to prepare a document to be submitted to the council on 10 december. so it was inevitable that there would be these drawbacks related to the speed of the work. i think that the validity of article 51 should be recognised, since it was applied for the first time. the document before this house cannot be explained in the few seconds i have left. i would like to express my satisfaction, however, that the codecision system has been extended as a system of ordinary legislation, that immigration is understood as a european problem - i hope that this is the interpretation of the commission and the council - and not as a problem of individual states acting in solidarity with each other, that the cooperation of national parliaments has been regarded not as guards who set limits but as positive collaborators in the legislative process, and finally that there is this appeal to human rights, which is an extremely important thing, which is the soul of the european union. i therefore believe that this document, given that it was not intended to give every detail of the implementation of the stockholm programme but only to formulate general guidelines, is certainly positive. there will be time and means to settle it in the minor details.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme is twofold compared with the hague programme: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. safety is a right: we have to be able to work together, to be able to work together, to be able to work together, to be able to work together. the states and europe must guarantee security. but an action on security which weakens the guarantee of freedom is an action which denies certainty to the law and is therefore a source of insecurity and barbarism. let's think about guantanamo. europe is the home of rights. the stockholm programme defines them today in great detail. it is a question of striking the right balance between the discipline of criminal law enforcement on the one hand and, on the other, the daily life of citizens and their family, social, economic, work and study relationships, all of which are regulated by civil law and civil justice. this is the europe of the citizen. it must be built up within the states and the community institutions. european society is more united, and mobility is more intense than one might think. mobility is now a right. the borders between states are not watertight walls, they are networks through which society seeps every day. the stockholm programme provides the institutional framework for this, providing for judicial cooperation and mutual recognition, a european justice system national and community justice systems , a european law system national and community law systems, a european citizen system and a european, national and community court system. european rules are dictated by community rules and the case law of the european courts, but they also come from the behaviour of workers, businesses, students, national judges and european networks of judicial officers. it is a bottom-up process which the stockholm programme wants to support. parliament has made a great effort with this resolution, which i hope will be supported here by a broad, united vote, which we have worked hard to achieve. the council will respectfully take this into account. the lisbon treaty has not yet entered into force, but it is here, very much in evidence. the council must be ambitious, mr minister, and it must take advantage of what we have worked out here and of the wealth of suggestions that emerge from it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on budgetary control i must acknowledge the very important work done by the committee and the excellent work done by the rapporteur, as well as the political courage shown. that's because, from the very beginning, we wanted to send a very clear message: we intend to work very hard to ensure transparency, fairness and legality in the management of public funds and therefore in the auditing of budgets. there has been very significant progress with the council, which at first did not want to respond. i personally acknowledge this to the swedish presidency, which has always wanted to demonstrate that it is working for transparency and fairness. we therefore expect further progress in this respect, because it is obviously not acceptable, especially with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, that parliament does not have information and news for the purpose of checking budgets and public funds, in the interests not only of the european union but also of all the citizens of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 april this house postponed its decision on the council's accounts because the council had refused to provide parliament with its annual activity report, preventing its own expenditure from being audited in the same way as the other institutions. it is our task to intensify our efforts to promote the transparency of the community institutions, to raise awareness of the use of the community budget and to make the european institutions, and the council in particular, more accountable to the public. i think that since parliament refused to discharge the council, a great deal of effort has been made. we particularly appreciated the publication of the council's annual activity report on its website and the use of greater transparency in the area of the common foreign and security policy. in addition, the meeting last september was welcomed, with a constructive discussion between the representatives of the cont committee and those of the swedish presidency. the council's efforts to provide adequate answers to the questions put by parliament last april are also to be commended. in conclusion, mr president, the text we are voting on is an important step in the dialogue between parliament and the council, a strong signal that this house has wanted to send to protect taxpayers by means of clear, transparent and timely reporting of council expenditure.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, given the time, allow me to begin with a quote from 'the thousand and one nights', since we are talking to the arab world. in these fairy tales it says: "in standing still there is no honor for the intelligent and educated. the water's stagnation is corrupting it: if it flows, it's good, if it doesn't, it's not good". this is the legacy of the great arab tradition, which invites us to shake off a certain inertia and to relaunch the process of euro-mediterranean integration in the best possible way, taking into account two factors. first of all, the weather. today, 50 per cent of the population of the southern mediterranean is under 18 years old, and in less than 30 years we will have a free trade area made up of almost one billion consumers and citizens. so we don't have much time. secondly, the nature of the trade agreements we want to offer these countries. as liberal democrats we want trade agreements to be free of bureaucratic structures and centralism and to take away the control of resources and wealth, as is the case today, from oligarchic structures in the countries with which we are dealing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to make just two comments. i think that we should not be divided between greater privatisation, competition or whatever. it is clear that the logic of the pursuit of cost reduction is a negative factor in relation to safety standards. when you try to reduce costs because you have a very competitive mechanism, you inevitably lower the safety standards. the real issue is that i think the commission should embark on a more stringent phase around a more strategic role for the european railway agency. the commission must take on - and it must do so much more urgently, because of the differences between the various countries, which other colleagues have already pointed out, compared with the contradictions between national and european legislation - a greater role in coordinating, monitoring and supervising the national safety agencies. i think that is a very late step. the model should be that of the air transport agency, with the same powers of investigation and prosecution. if there is a call to the commission today, it is to accelerate in this direction. the commissioner said that we must wait for the results of the accident investigations. i believe, however, that these results add nothing to the existing situation. another element, which is probably not relevant to your function, commissioner, and is probably also off-topic with regard to tonight's debate, is that often and willingly the legislation as a whole does not guarantee to those who are harmed by a railway accident - expect that there is always a low incidence of railway accidents - to have immediate recognition by those who bear this responsibility.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you to the group leaders for these very inspiring speeches. not all of them, but the vast majority of them, like the swedish presidency, seem happy that we were able to secure the appointment of these two men, herman van rompuy and catherine ashton. both of these people contribute to the cohesion, stability and increased coordination of the european union, and that is necessary if we are to be able to focus on the major challenges that lie ahead of the six-month presidency. i think that's very good. now that they have been appointed, they can, as martin schulz has said, concentrate on their tasks and we can get out of this debate. now that the treaty of lisbon will finally enter into force on 1 december, perhaps the british domestic policy debate will also be able to leave this house. the eu needs modern rules of the game and the lisbon treaty will provide them. we are better equipped to deal with the big questions that face us. in the run-up to the european summit, there are three issues in particular on which the swedish presidency hopes to move forward with your help and that of the commission. the climate issue: we are doing our utmost to get an ambitious political agreement with a timetable so that this can eventually become legally binding. we will live with the results of copenhagen and what comes after for a long time, and slowly reshape our societies to become more climate-smart. the economic aspects: although there is a light in the financial markets, we are facing high unemployment in many countries and this will mark us for many years to come. the problem with financial supervision as it has been up to now is that it has focused too much on individual companies and too little on the whole financial system. the cooperation between the various monitoring bodies has also not worked. with the new european monitoring bodies in place, we will be able to remedy this. there will be a global vision and increased cooperation. they are also accountable to the council and the european parliament. the other details of this will be discussed at the ecofin meeting on 2 december, when i hope that further progress will be made. finally, on the stockholm programme: this is a very important decision which we will also be living with for a long time to come and where the european parliament will have a very great influence in the future. it is about finding solutions to the terrible problems we face in terms of crossborder crime, trafficking, the threat of terrorism and balancing this with a policy which also puts the citizen at the centre and ensures that there is respect for the privacy of the individual. i hope that we can come up with a long-term programme dealing with these issues in the so-called stockholm programme. these three issues, together with a few others, have been the priorities of the swedish presidency and i am very pleased to see that we will hopefully be able to tackle this in december. thank you very much, i have reason to return to the end of this debate.
president of the commission. − mr president, there was this concrete issue on swift and i want to clarify the position on that matter because i think it is extremely important. it also has to do with the stockholm programme. the swift programme is, indeed, a very valuable instrument for member states in their fight against terrorism. it has allowed member states’ authorities to prevent terrorist attacks in europe. we are not talking about theoretical cases. we are talking about actual cases. the draft european union-united states agreement, which is currently being discussed, is an interim arrangement with a maximum duration of 12 months. it is needed in order to legally replace the existing one after the move of the data storage out of the united states. if the interim agreement is adopted before 1 december and the legal basis is changed, it will avoid a security gap and a serious blow to european union-united states relations in this area. in the recent meeting we had, involving the european union and president obama, the first issue he raised was the cooperation on the fight against terrorism between the united states and europe. he gave us the names of concrete countries in europe that escaped terrorist attacks recently because of the cooperation in this matter between us and them. i can give you some data on that, if you wish. more than 5 450 cases under the terrorist finance tracking programme have been passed to date to european governments, with over 100 new generated leads provided to european countries from january to september this year. i can give you concrete examples. this information has provided substantial assistance to european governments during the investigation into the al-qa’ida-directed plot to attack transatlantic airline flights travelling between the uk and the united states. in mid-september 2009 three individuals were convicted, and each was sentenced to at least 30 years in prison. in early 2009 this system was used to identify the financial activity of a europe-based al-qa’ida individual who played a role in the planning of an alleged attack on aircraft. the information was passed to the governments of european and middle eastern nations. in summer 2007 the same system was used to identify the financial activities of germany-based members of the islamic jihad union. this information contributed to the investigation and eventual arrest of islamic jihad union members who were plotting to attack sites in germany. they subsequently confessed to these activities. so, this system already saved many lives in europe and elsewhere. we are talking about an extremely serious matter. i fully agree that the whole fight against terrorism has to be done in the full respect of fundamental rights and guarantees of our open, free societies. we were the first in the world to say to president bush that he needed to close guantánamo – we europeans. and we stand by it. at the same time, we have to see to it that we stay united and committed to the fight against terrorism. that is why i want to give you all the assurance that we will present to you a new mandate on the basis of the new treaty of lisbon, precisely for addressing this issue, where the european parliament will have its full powers. so in early 2010 we will come with a new basis respecting the lisbon treaty that will, of course, give parliament all the capacity to act in this matter because we want parliament to be also at the forefront of this action against terrorism and for security, by fully respecting, of course, our fundamental rights and our legal guarantees. finally, since so many of you spoke – and i thank you for your comments – on the issue of gender balance, which is so important for me, for the commission and for the european institutions, let me signal the fact that today is the 10th anniversary of the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i think this is an agenda where we also have to do something in europe. unfortunately, there are still many cases in europe where women are affected by attacks by their male companions or former companions. i want to use this opportunity to show our commitment to this very important agenda which is also in our european society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the international press, very often, in commenting on the appointments made for the opening of the new season of the european union, terms such as 'unsuitable candidates' and 'inadequate candidates' have been used. i would like to make a counter-argument. president verhofstadt is right when he says that you can see the glass half full or half empty. i wonder, then, what was the logic behind the council's choice of these personalities. i think it was a communal logic and i try to explain myself. the choice of an outgoing member of the european commission for the post of european foreign minister is a clear message, that is to say that we intend to pursue a community foreign policy and not a foreign policy which responds to the logic of a particular nation. the new thing for me is not that mrs ashton is british, but that she comes from the commission, that is to say, from an approach to community foreign policy issues that is not tied to the particular vision of a nation. the nomination of the belgian prime minister has been called into question by comparison with more prominent personalities. i think that what we are asking the president-in-office of the council, who will be in office for two and a half years, is not to shout more than the others or to speak louder than the others, but to convince the others to speak with one voice. and that is why i think that the appointment of mr van rompuy was a good job. it is the community logic that must be our guiding principle, because if we are serious about building europe, the choice of these personalities on this basis is rightly justified. we shall see how efficient and effective they are when we see them in action, but i urge everyone to support their work strongly because otherwise we will have truly wasted the best opportunity of our lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the swedish presidency for the efforts it has made in recent months, which have led, among other things, to the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. finally, after ten years of institutional deadlock, the european union, through the strengthening of the codecision procedure, will be able to resume a growth path that was unexpectedly interrupted a long time ago. the appointments of the past few days have certainly shown, beyond the more or less questionable qualities of the persons chosen, that the appointment procedures are far from the principles of transparency and accountability to the citizens of the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. finally, i hope that 2009 can end with an ambitious agreement to be reached at the copenhagen conference, where the european union will have to speak with one voice to express its views on climate change.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i'm going to answer a few quick questions. there was a question about turkey. we are naturally pleased that turkey continues to have european integration as its overall objective. the negotiations with turkey are progressing. maybe not as fast as we'd like, but they're moving forward and we're hoping to open the environmental chapter by the end of the year. we also support the negotiations between turkey and cyprus and the talks taking place on the island to find a solution to its partition. the parties are the owners of this process and the un is helping but of course the eu is supporting this and i was just recently in cyprus to talk to the various actors on this issue. it would be wonderful if a solution could be found in the near future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the baltic sea strategy briefly i would like to thank the european parliament again for the support you have given to the swedish presidency on this matter. the idea of the baltic sea strategy was born in parliament, so we are very pleased that it is now in place and in force. it will mean a lot to be able to address the environmental problems in the region, but also to increase cooperation for prosperity, innovation, security, etc. as regards the european external action service, it is one of the biggest and most important changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. at its october summit, the european council approved a general framework for the european external action service. this framework will now be further worked on by catherine ashton in conjunction with the european parliament and will present a final proposal by april next year. of course, the field service will be phased in, and it is important that this be done in a good and constructive way. the european parliament has the opportunity to discuss the formulation of this. as regards the budget review, mr färm, i fully share the view that now that we finally have the lisbon treaty in place in a week's time with new modern rules of the game for the european union, we must of course also have a modern budget that can meet these challenges. i hope that the new commission will be able to put forward such a proposal as soon as possible. i think president barroso mentioned that yesterday at question time. eight years after laeken, we are now standing on the brink of a new treaty. it is historic, it is the beginning of a new era for the european union. i am very pleased that we, the swedish presidency, have been able to help to put this into practice. we can now leave institutional questions behind us in part and concentrate on the major political challenges that we know the citizens of europe are concerned about, because it is the europe of the citizens that we are all fighting for. many of these issues will be discussed at the european council in december. as regards the climate issue - the fate of our generation - the european council will run concurrently with the copenhagen climate summit, and the summit gives us a chance to fine-tune our negotiating position in copenhagen if necessary. as regards financial matters and the economic crisis, we can put a number of instruments in place and also draw up long-term guidelines for how to make europe competitive again for prosperity and social cohesion and, not least, look ahead to the new lisbon strategy, which in the long and medium term can be of great help to europe in this respect. finally, the stockholm programme is about safety and security for our european citizens and it is extremely important that we get this programme in place. all these issues will live on after the summit and on all these issues we will need very close cooperation with the european parliament. the swedish prime minister, fredrik reinfeldt, will be here at the december session to report on the outcome of the summit and also to sum up the swedish presidency in general. thank you very much for a very good and constructive debate.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on this same day that we are celebrating the fact that the next commission will apparently have at least nine women – and i also see that as a victory for all of us who have actively fought for this – we hear from news reports this morning that, in france alone, 156 women were killed last year by domestic violence. as this is the international day for the elimination of violence against women, this is something that should make us stop and think and, hopefully, also act in the future at european level, as well as at international level. perhaps we should also bring this up in different meetings during the rest of today. this is an important step forward. it also says a lot about the procedure from now on, which should be more open when we appoint commissioners. i hope that, in the future, member states and governments will nominate both a man and a woman. i think that is an excellent idea. let me also comment on the appointments of a new high representative and a new council president. mrs cathy ashton was nominated to the commission with the full confidence of the uk government. she was actually voted for here in the parliament a year ago with a very large majority – with 538 votes, if i am correct. as we have heard from several of you, she has been working very closely with parliament and has always looked for parliament's involvement on different issues. she was appointed unanimously by 27 heads of state and government, so i think she has all the legitimacy to fulfil her job and to gain the respect of the european union's foreign partners. i liked the metaphor that was presented here that instead of having somebody who would stop the traffic or mean red traffic lights, you would have a smooth operator, somebody that would actually help the traffic flow or decisions to be made in a democratic and good way in the european union. i have got to know her as a very good colleague, and i would say that she is also a convinced european. that is indeed an important starting point. we have already had good comments in the debate here. i think it has been a fruitful and constructive discussion, and thanks for all your contributions. may i also comment on the direct question by göran färm about the budget review. i can only repeat what the commission president has already told you, that this will be handed over to the new commission. this is firstly because the new lisbon treaty will contain provisions that require a new institutional set-up, so it will also have a good basis for decisions on the budget. secondly, the new commission will have to decide on the political priorities and then put its money where its mouth is in order to actually have the budget to accompany the political priorities. i would say that is an important innovation and an opportunity for the next commission. it will also be handed over to cecilia malmström with warm hands from all of us. what the commission can say is that a proposal for the budget review will come early next year and will be the immediate task for the next commission. i would just like to comment on one thing concerning the stockholm programme. the adoption of the stockholm programme coincides with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, where the european parliament will have a crucial role in the development of these policies. this will again increase the democratic legitimacy of the important decisions to be taken on justice and home affairs issues. this is good news for european citizens and also for all eu institutions. on climate change, i can hear that there is a common view here on the active role that the european union should play in copenhagen and from now on. so, again, thank you very much for the debate. with the new lisbon treaty, we now have a text that will help us deal with all the important issues that have been raised here – climate change, fighting the financial crisis and its social and other effects – and of course also make sure that we have a democratic european union in the future.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, this is an oral amendment to paragraph 131, on which i agree with the other two rapporteurs, mr lópez aguilar and mr berlinguer. the current text reads: 'invites the council, the commission and the member states to assess and review existing international, european and national laws and policies on narcotic drugs and to promote harm reduction policies, particularly in view of the united nations conferences on these issues.' the oral amendment proposes to insert the words prevention and recovery, so that the call for evaluation and review of legislation covers 'harm reduction, prevention and recovery policies'.
mr president, the resolution on the stockholm programme which our parliament has voted today is the result of a great deal of collaborative work and a completely new procedural formula, which has not yet been tested. it is true that it sets itself very ambitious objectives, but in order to have a europe that is both open and secure, we must be able to strike the right balance between increasingly effective cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism on the one hand and a strong commitment to protecting the privacy rights of citizens on the other. we are committed to the implementation of the common asylum policy, with due regard for the safeguarding of fundamental human rights and a common immigration policy through greater border controls. the second is the creation of a european judicial area. to achieve this, all forms of cooperation aimed at spreading a common european judicial culture will need to be promoted, for example through the mutual recognition of common judgments and rules, the overcoming of exequatur and the implementation of measures to facilitate access to justice and to promote exchanges between judges. the multiannual programme, which emphasizes the concept of european citizenship, should be seen as an addition to national citizenship and not as a limitation on it. i think these are goals that require a greater commitment from everyone ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we witnessed the sudden and unexpected bankruptcy of some low-cost airlines, such as myair and sky europe, with the immediate cancellation of all scheduled routes, which caused great inconvenience to thousands of passengers who were denied boarding on regularly booked flights. moreover, the commission observes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airlines concerned have been able to obtain a refund of the amount of the compensation paid. for these reasons, it is all the more necessary that the commission, whose principles and values are the prosperity and well-being of consumers, should urgently take measures to prevent similar situations from recurring to the detriment of european citizens. in particular, the process of revising the all-inclusive travel directive 90/314/eec needs to be accelerated, as does the need to provide ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, in the light of the recent cases of suspension and revocation of the licence of many airlines, a considerable number of passengers and holders of unpaid and unreimbursed travel tickets have suffered considerable damage. i therefore believe that it is necessary to propose concrete legislation defining the most appropriate solutions to the problems arising from bankruptcies in terms of both economic loss and repatriation. it is therefore important to provide for compensation for passengers in the event of bankruptcy and to define the financial and administrative arrangements for this. i am referring to the principle of mutual responsibility for the protection of passengers of all airlines flying on the same route and having available seats. this would allow for the repatriation of passengers stranded at foreign airports. in this sense, the assumptions of a guarantee fund or compulsory insurance for airlines could represent plausible solutions to be balanced against the trade-off resulting from the increase in prices for final consumers.
mr president, the debate on designations of origin is not at all the overriding interest of one or a few member states, as is sometimes misunderstood, but embodies the fundamental economic principle of 'leveling the playing field'. this principle, in line with the lisbon treaty, aims to implement european competitiveness at world level by promoting clear and balanced rules for our companies producing and importing products from third countries. so we are talking about a matter which concerns europe as a whole. that is why i believe it is essential to have an agreement on designations of origin which goes beyond the interests of individual countries or political groups and leaves room for the will to implement the single market by promoting competitiveness and transparency. the proposal for a regulation on indication of origin, as formulated by the european commission in 2005, is now back in parliament. in this way, in line with the lisbon treaty, the codecision process between parliament and the council will make it possible to speed up the adoption of a regulation of such great importance for the european economy and consumers.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome parliament's decision to adopt definitively a regulation to improve the safety, environmental and economic efficiency of road transport. the aim is to promote the use of safe and quieter tyres. according to some studies, it is possible to significantly reduce the proportion of vehicle fuel consumption derived from tyre performance (up to 10%). in line with my commitment to consumer protection, this regulation establishes an effective regulatory framework through clear and precise labelling and information. this ensures transparency and makes the consumer more aware of his purchasing choice supported by catalogues, leaflets and web marketing.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on tyre labelling which this house has adopted today is a decisive step towards putting safe and quiet products on the market which will also minimise fuel consumption. in particular, it is to be welcomed that the legal form of the proposal has been changed from a directive to a regulation. this will allow for the uniform and immediate application of all requirements in all member states, ensuring better harmonization of the european tyre market. the effort made by the itre committee in the negotiations to ensure flexibility in the display of the label will also ensure adequate protection for the final consumer, while avoiding excessive bureaucratic burdens on manufacturers. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the requirements of the union legislation. for these reasons, we are satisfied with the common position reached, and we are confident that it is in line with the objectives of the commission's initial proposal.
in writing. - mr president, i have expressed a favourable opinion of the resolution because it points the right way to strengthening european unity around the fundamental values which constitute its own identity. we cannot delude ourselves that we are achieving a common vision of what are called common values. it is hoped, however, that the use of reason will help the various political groups to examine what is true and right in order to move forward on the road to european unity. the clear distinction between the right to free movement and the principle of non-discrimination on the one hand and the value of the family as a natural society based on marriage on the other led to the wording of the paragraph which confirms the autonomy of individual states in family law and the prohibition of discrimination against any human being. those who, like me, promote the principle of equality to the full, affirming the equality of born and unborn children, can only share the thesis of non-discrimination against persons with different sexual orientations, but cannot accept the destruction of the concept of marriage or family, whose meaning, as recognized by article 16 of the universal declaration of human rights, is linked to the succession of generations and the educational potential of heterosexual couples.
in writing. - finally, this resolution states important principles: the european union has a common responsibility in combating illegal immigration, in distributing asylum seekers, in returning foreign prisoners. i think it is very lacking and too complacent in the part where it calls for respect for the rights of minorities, and in particular the roma minority. the text completely ignores the degraded situation in which the roma communities in some countries, such as italy, are living, not because of a lack of integration policies, but because of a clear choice to reject all rules of civil life. no convictions for illegal activities (theft, pickpocketing, harassing begging, child prostitution) increasingly associated with the abusive settlements of roma in the suburbs of large cities, italian but not only. there is no mention, even in the section on the protection of minors, of the need to protect children from the slavery perpetrated against them by some roma family heads. nor is there any mention of how to implement the ec directive 2004/38 on the expulsion of community citizens who, after three months in an eu country, are unable to prove that they have a certain income. integration cannot exist without respect for the rules, and roma minorities are not exempt from respect for this principle.
in writing. - mr president, following the barcelona conference in 1995, the potential inherent in the natural relations between the countries bordering the mediterranean has not yet been fully exploited. the ambitious project of creating new and closer political, social and cultural links between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean must remain one of the european union's priority objectives in order to achieve the desired and strategic establishment of a free trade area. this euromed area will be able to make a significant contribution to peace, prosperity and security throughout the region. i share the measures and efforts to remove barriers and obstacles to trade and i realise that the success of the euro-mediterranean partnership does not depend solely on the will of the european countries. the establishment of the free trade area requires the convinced, continuous and convergent contribution of all parties. the upm should also intensify existing forms of cooperation within euromed to enable all partner countries to participate in the regional programmes and corresponding policies of the european union. in this connection, i would point out that the definition of projects in the framework agreed in paris in july 2008 in strategic areas such as new infrastructure, cooperation between smes, communications and the exploitation of renewable energy sources will make a positive contribution to the development and facilitation of trade and investment, which is particularly needed by the southern coastal countries. these are all conditions that promote peace and friendly relations. for all these reasons i support the resolution and hope that the road map drawn up by the commission will be respected and will bear the fruit we all expect.
in writing. - mr president, today parliament has strongly reaffirmed the positions it had already expressed on several occasions in the previous parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark is not used in the same way as the community's trade mark. this choice is based on the need to ensure that consumers are better informed and therefore better protected, so that they can make informed choices. the regulation on designations of origin will finally enable european companies to compete on an equal footing with companies in third countries where the law on designations of origin of products entering their territory has already been in force for some time. the market is only free when the rules are clear, shared and enforced. the aim of the resolution adopted is to urge the commission, after unsuccessful attempts at mediation with the council, to reiterate the proposal in the light of the new powers which parliament has acquired with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we are confident that the agreement between the political groups in the european parliament will be the instrument for finding a definitive legal framework with the council. i take this opportunity to stress that the product categories covered by the current proposal for a regulation must be respected and extended as regards fastening products, that is to say those products for which it is essential to ensure quality and compliance with european regulations in order to ensure safety from bridge construction to cars, from household appliances to any other object involving the use of fastening products. ensuring safety is a priority for us. today's vote is a major success which we dedicate to european consumers and producers at a time of new political momentum for parliament, thanks to the codecision procedure which finally heals the democratic deficit we have had to endure for so long.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, this is a truly important debate on a truly important subject. still, if i wished, i could limit my intervention today to just saying that the presidency is in full agreement with the motion for a resolution that has been put forward by mr albertini on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. it is important that parliament and the council, as well as the commission, stand together on an issue as critical as this one. in retrospect, perhaps the most crucial of all the articles in that treaty that was signed on the capitol hill in rome more than half a century ago was what today is article 49 in the lisbon treaty: any european state which respects our values and is committed to promoting them may apply to become a member of the union. it is by this that 19 of the countries of our union today have become members and part of the historic undertaking of our union. it is by this article that we have managed to promote peace and prosperity and further the rule of law and representative government in ever larger parts of this once so conflict-ridden part of the world. sometimes you need to go to other parts of the world, as i have the duty to do quite often, to be reminded of how enormous this achievement really is. during more than half a century, our europe exported wars and totalitarian ideologies across the rest of the globe. two world wars; two totalitarian ideologies; strife and suffering. now, we are instead exporting the idea of peaceful reconciliation, of integration across old borders, of common rules and regulations as the common way to better governance. add to this all that has been achieved by article 49 and it also makes our union stand taller in the world. a europe of 6, of 9, of 12, of 15 or even of 25 would have been smaller in every single respect – in ambition, in standing, in possibilities, in respect across the globe. your resolution is surely right to say that enlargement, and i quote, ‘has proven to be one of the most successful of all european union policies’. this is, if anything, an understatement. we all know that the process has not been entirely easy. i remember coming in a different capacity to an earlier european parliament representing a country seeking accession and also meeting those who feared that further enlargement from the then 12 would risk diluting the political ambitions of the union. there have been both the difficulties of the new members implementing our ever increasing policies and acquis and our difficulties in adjusting to our own success in the form of new members, but when we look back it is easy to see that periods of enlargement have been periods in which we have also deepened our cooperation. during the past two decades, we have more than doubled the number of member states and in rapid succession we got the treaties of maastricht, amsterdam, nice and lisbon. the previous three decades did not even succeed in fully implementing the treaty of rome. article 49 is as important, i would argue, to our future as it has been to our past. our magnetism is still there. during the last year, we have had new membership applications from montenegro, albania and iceland, and there are others that we all know that are equally keen on reaching the position where an application can be handed in. after the last enlargement that brought in approximately 100 million new citizens to our union, our attention is now focused on the countries of south-eastern europe – perhaps up to 100 million citizens as well. this will be neither fast nor easy. the different challenges we face in the different countries of the western balkans are well known, and the magnitude of the transformation of turkey has not escaped us either. we are all aware that there are those in our respective public opinions that would prefer just to shut the door to all of them, hoping that the issue will go away, and who opt for a more closed idea of europe. i belong to those who are convinced that this would be a mistake of historic proportions, the consequences of which would haunt our europe for a very long time to come. their door to our union might sometimes be a very distant one. some of them will have to travel a long and difficult road of reforms, but, were that door to be shut, other doors would immediately open up to other forces, and we might well see those parts of europe moving off in directions that over time will have negative consequences for us all. that is why article 49 remains of such fundamental importance. it is the beacon of reform and reconciliation that also inspires and guides the regions of europe that are not yet members of our union. commissioner rehn will go into more details concerning the commission’s assessment of the progress of all these countries concerned, and the presidency does share the assessment made by the commission. it remains our ambition to move all of the countries of the western balkans forward in the accession process, knowing that they are at very different stages of it. we expect, somewhat related to this, a decision to be taken that from 19 december there will be visa-free access to our union for the citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. that is a major and most important step forward. along with parliament, we share the hope that albania and bosnia will catch up and will be able to join this most important step as soon as possible. the accession process of croatia has been unblocked and is now moving forward. this is important for croatia and for the entire region. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been given a very positive report by the commission, and it is my hope that the council in december will be able to concretely indicate further steps in its accession process. the applications of montenegro and albania have been forwarded to the commission and i believe we can expect its opinion within a year or so. in bosnia, it is our hope that the political leaders will be able to agree on the reforms necessary in order to make it possible for that country as well to contemplate an application for membership. indirect talks facilitated by the european union and the united sates in close cooperation are under way as we speak today. serbia has been making good progress on its unilateral implementation of the interim agreement, and we will obviously look very carefully at the upcoming report by the icty chief prosecutor concerning its cooperation with its efforts. it is our hope that he is satisfied with the current level of efforts, although it is of course also critical that these efforts are maintained. moving further to the south east, i would like to pay tribute to the fundamental reforms under way in turkey on the kurdish question. the success of these would bring the country much closer to our european standards in areas of fundamental importance. there are numerous other issues which i think the commissioner will go into. not directly related but also of obvious significance in this regard are the ongoing talks between president christofias and mr talat on the reunification of cyprus. we can only urge them to move forward towards a comprehensive solution on the basis of a bi-communal, bi-zonal federation with political equality in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions. the importance of this can hardly be exaggerated. we will move either towards a new era of reconciliation and cooperation in this part of europe and the entire region of the eastern mediterranean, or towards a situation where it is easy to see that we will be faced with rapidly mounting problems. much of our attention is on the challenges of south-eastern europe, but the application of iceland is adding to the reasons we have to focus more of our attention on all the issues of the arctic and the wider high north. this is an area where our union must also be more present and engaged in the future. its importance is coming more and more into the focus of all the significant global actors and the application of iceland should also be seen from that perspective. with a democratic tradition that reaches back a thousand years or so, and with its membership in our single market through the european economic area, it is obvious that iceland has already travelled quite a bit on the road to membership, although we will have to assess the further progress when we get the avis from the commission. mr president, this is what the swedish presidency has so far managed to achieve in the important area of enlargement. we still have some important weeks in which i expect further progress, but let me conclude by saying that i do not believe that we have completed the building of our europe. i do believe that we must remain an open europe and that we should remain committed to an enlargement process that brings good governance, the rule of law, reconciliation, peace and prosperity to larger and larger parts of our europe. this is obviously of key importance to them, but we should recognise that it is of key importance to us as well, and let us not forget that it will also make it possible for us to stand taller in the world and for our voice to demand even greater respect in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank the members of the committee on foreign affairs and its chair, gabriele albertini, for a balanced and comprehensive resolution. i would also like to thank all of you for your excellent cooperation over the past five years. the european parliament has greatly helped to shape our enlargement policy and you have set an example of democratic accountability. i look forward to continuing our excellent cooperation in the future, whatever the portfolio in my case. the eu will take a long-awaited step forward next week when the lisbon treaty enters into force. this will start a new era in the eu’s foreign policy. indirectly it will also cement the eu’s renewed consensus on enlargement based on the three ‘c’s of consolidation, conditionality and communication, combined with an approved capacity to integrate new members. this will enable us to continue our gradual and carefully managed accession process. as your draft resolution illustrates, enlargement is one of the eu’s most powerful foreign policy tools today. this was also the spirit of carl bildt’s message, and i do agree with this message based on empirical evidence during the swedish presidency and over the years and decades. it is also true that the eu’s credibility as a global actor stands or falls by our ability to shape our very own neighbourhood. it is here that we have achieved our most remarkable successes over the past 20 years of transforming the european continent by reunifying east and west and thus building a stronger european union. enlargement has been a key driver of this process and it continues to transform south-eastern europe today. albania’s and montenegro’s applications for eu membership underscore the union’s continued power of attraction. iceland’s application adds a new political and geo-economic dimension to our enlargement agenda. bosnia and herzegovina, and serbia are both considering submitting an application. given the economic crisis, all these countries might easily have turned inwards. instead, they continue to pursue european orientation with all the tough choices and bold reforms this entails. croatia is nearing the finishing line after four years of intense accession negotiations. zagreb now needs to intensify its reform efforts, especially in the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, so that negotiations can be concluded. icty cooperation remains a must. we have seen steady progress in turkey as well. turkey plays a key role in energy security and in the dialogue between civilisations. ankara’s commitment to normalise relations with armenia is historic, as is the democratic opening to resolve the kurdish question, but turkey still has a long way to go. besides reforms, we expect turkey to ensure full implementation of the ankara protocol and to make progress towards the normalisation of relations with cyprus. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made convincing progress recently and substantially addressed the key reform priorities. the country sufficiently fulfils the copenhagen political criteria. these factors enabled the commission to recommend the opening of accession negotiations. i have the impression that the government in skopje has rightly seen our recommendation as an encouragement to finally settle the name issue with greece. there is now a new context, a new debate and a new window of opportunity that i trust both skopje and athens will indeed capitalise on. there has been good news in serbia too. belgrade has demonstrated its commitment to eu integration, not least by implementing the interim agreement with the eu unilaterally, and i assume that the icty should now be satisfied with serbia’s efforts. i agree with your draft resolution to unblock the agreement. it is high time to allow serbia to move to the next stage of its european journey. bosnia and herzegovina presents its own serious challenges, partly due to its wartime history, but let me be clear that there can be no discounts in eu enlargement. bosnia’s application for eu membership can only be considered once the ohr has closed. bosnia also needs to undertake constitutional changes in part to comply with the european convention on human rights. respect for human rights is a founding principle of the european union. together with the presidency and the united states, we have proposed a package of reforms to achieve this. i hope, for the sake of the citizens and for the region as a whole, that the bosnian leaders will rise to the occasion and reach an agreement. the eu and the us are engaged at the highest levels because we want bosnia to succeed, and i believe it can succeed. as for kosovo, stability has been maintained but still remains fragile. the commission has presented a study on how to promote kosovo’s socioeconomic development and anchor it to europe. we identify eventual visa facilitation and trade as flagships once the conditions have been met. to conclude, we set out together an ambitious but, in retrospect, realistic agenda five years ago when i started my mandate as enlargement commissioner. during my hearings, i told this parliament that by 2009 we wanted to see an eu of 27 member states with bulgaria and romania in, the accession process with croatia reaching its final stage, the other western balkan countries anchored in the eu through association agreements, turkey firmly on a european track, kosovo’s status settled and cyprus reunified. i am glad and proud that, with the important exception of cyprus, where settlement talks are still ongoing, nearly all our ambitions have materialised. we have worked together for these very worthy goals and together we have made a difference. even cyprus might still happen, to the benefit of all of its citizens and the european union. besides, though i hoped for it, i did not dare to forecast progress on visa liberalisation five years ago. yet here we are, one month away from turning the dream of the citizens of serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia into reality. we hope to do the same for albania and bosnia and herzegovina next year once they meet the conditions. it is therefore a very important reminder to all of us who work with south-eastern europe of how attractive the european dream remains for millions of citizens in our immediate neighbourhood. let us keep that dream alive and, in time, make it a reality.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in the committee on foreign affairs on monday provided further proof of the problematic nature and at the same time of the interest in the geographical and political extension of the frontiers of europe as we know it today. the work and efforts of my fellow rapporteurs and the contributions of the various political groups have resulted in a text which is broadened in relation to the original and refined in many respects which were only mentioned at the outset. the debate in committee and even within the groups themselves was not without sharp contrasts, typical of a cross-cutting comparison which goes beyond the respective political positions. the historical past of each nation and the present state of their relations have clashed with the accession requests of the candidate or aspiring countries. in less than a year, three more requests for accession negotiations were made: montenegro in december 2008, albania in april 2009 and iceland in july 2009. it is a sign that the european project still has a lot of attraction and is considered a major element of stability, especially in the wake of the serious crisis in the financial markets. the text which has been adopted following the votes in the committee on foreign affairs and security underlines even more strongly the need for countries wishing to join the european union to take this transition seriously, aware of the duties and implications of this process. the entry of the new member states requires that they respect european standards, not only economic and political but also cultural, social and legal, so that the result is nothing more than a simple sum of states. i hope that the text which the house will vote on tomorrow will deal with all aspects of the general enlargement strategy in an even more balanced and succinct way, which will of course benefit from the contribution of the country-specific resolutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement of the european union can be an opportunity or a problem, but it remains a great challenge. the opportunity is one which enables the new member states to participate in a concrete way in the construction of european policy. the copenhagen criteria and their non-formal verification are not enough. it is essential to raise the european consciousness of the citizens of the candidate countries by means of information and sharing activities involving politicians, intellectuals and the media. europe cannot be seen merely as a large reserve of financial resources for solving economic, social and infrastructural problems, but as an institution to which everyone can make an original contribution in order to build a policy based on shared values. in the member states, support for enlargement is low, especially in relation to certain states. do we want to close our eyes to this reality or do we want to involve our fellow citizens and ask for their opinion? i think that the referendum is the right instrument because it is the most direct form of democracy and would bring europe closer to the citizens and their freedom to decide.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the resolution we are debating in parliament today to be a very positive one. i think that the enlargement of the western balkans is, and must be, one of the central aspects of european action in the coming months. i welcome the work done by the swedish presidency and especially by commissioner rehn. however, we must feel more involved in the enlargement process. there are undoubtedly some countries which need to step up their action on the judicial side of crime fighting and reform. but we must not lose sight of the political objective, which is to consolidate democracy in those countries and to make them part of the european path in economic, social and infrastructural terms. i am thinking for example of countries such as kosovo - and i agree with the amendment tabled by mr lunacek on the roma issue - which is a country that we cannot leave on the sidelines just because there are five european countries that have not yet recognized its independence. in the end, what is needed is the right courage and a far-sighted policy to meet the challenge that the enlargement process poses to us all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must take very cautiously the claim that enlargement will be a factor of stability. let us think about what president erdogan said a few days ago. he said he felt bad for netanyahu but much better when he was around bashir who, if i am not mistaken, is the sudanese president under investigation for crimes against humanity. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. doesn't seem like the ideal neighborhood. it is much better to have a turkey linked to europe by a bond of privileged partnership. there is a rather worrying trend of de-westernization in turkey, which is very advanced, and which is happening right before our eyes. we think of measures on social living together, such as separate swimming pools for men and women, restrictions on freedom of opposition, even the imposition of a fine of 3 million euros for opposition broadcasters, and so on. i think there's a fact to be considered. perhaps there is a majority in this parliament in favour, but in the turkish people the majority is against turkey's entry. we insist on extending our borders to turkey when the turks themselves do not want it. the president of the italian republic said that pacta sunt servanda. i agree, but you have to consider that turks are turks.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, let me try to be brief. first, if this is appropriate from the presidency point of view, i join those members who have paid tribute to commissioner rehn for the work that he has done over the past five years. much has been achieved. it may be good for your successor that there is still something left to do, but much has been done. i also express our appreciation for the very broad support for the policy of enlargement that has been expressed throughout this debate by all of the representatives of all of the major political factions here. i think that is a source of strength. (interjection from william (the earl of) dartmouth: ‘did you listen to the debate?’) i did listen to the debate. you are not part of one of the major groups. i am sorry about that. mr severin was one of those who mentioned that this is a process that we must also anchor in the hearts and minds of people. i do agree with that, but we should also recognise that this requires determined political leadership by each and every one of us. if you look back on the history of our union, it is easy to note that very little in the history of european integration has happened because of some sudden groundswell of public opinion demanding it. nearly everything has been the result of visionary, far-sighted, often difficult and demanding political leadership, but we have also subsequently won the support of our citizens for what we are doing. i said that i was prime minister of my country when we entered the european union. we fought a very bitter referendum campaign. we won that narrowly. we had public opinion against the european union for quite some time. we are now, if you look at the public opinion polls, one of the more euro-positive countries in europe. it took political leadership to achieve that. it does not happen by itself. let me also say, when we go to the more difficult areas of europe, that reconciliation is not easy. that requires a lot of that leadership, and reconciliation has yet to be fully achieved in all parts of europe. the western balkans were taken up by a number of speakers, and rightly so. let me assure you that we are aware of the issues of kosovo, and of the need to move forward with them, taking some of the issues that we have inside our union into account as well. bosnia has been taken up by several people, such as mrs pack and mr swoboda, and let me just make a couple of remarks there. i have spent four full days this year engaging with the political leadership of bosnia, trying to move them forward and trying to tell them the dangers of slipping behind when the rest of the region is moving ahead. i have probably done too much because at the end of the day, as mrs pack said, they have to do this by themselves. it is their country, not our country, but we also have the duty to tell them that, if they do not do it, the rest of the region will move ahead and that will not be good for their country. that is what we have been trying to do, and to a certain extent are still trying to do. our process of enlargement, as everyone has been pointing out, is performance-based. it requires reforms. it requires reconciliation. and that applies to each and every one. it did apply to sweden once upon a time, and we managed. it applies to each and every one. as to the gentleman who was interested in engaging in debate, i did notice that there were a number of – mainly – gentlemen from the far right up there who had their reservations on turkey, to put it in the mildest possible terms. if i understood the argument, it was that turkey is too large, too complicated and too muslim. if you read article 49 of the treaty, and that is what we have to base our policies on, it does not make any exceptions for big countries, it does not make any exceptions for complicated cases, and it has no religious criteria. (applause from the centre left) so that is what we have to abide by. i listened to the moving words on the christian heritage, and there is much truth in that. all the catholics and orthodox or protestants and anglicans might interpret that in very different ways, but i would caution against defining the jewish heritage out of europe. they are not christians, but they are, with all of the problems in our history, also part of our europe of the past, the present and the future. i would also argue that it would equally be a mistake to define citizens of muslim faith, be they inside our existing member states, be they in bosnia, be they somewhere else or be they in turkey, and exclude them from the applicability of article 49 of the treaty. i think that would be a mistake. (applause from the centre left) i listened with interest in that respect to mrs koppa representing greece in her comments on both the challenges in the western balkans and reconciliation with turkey, and i have noted the steps and statements made by prime minister papandreou lately. could i just finally pick up one of my favourite items. someone mentioned, as sometimes happens in this debate, the question of absorption capacity – that we simply cannot absorb too many countries. i do not like the word. i do not see our union as ‘absorbing’ nations. i do not know if we have absorbed britain. and i do not know if france wants to be absorbed. and i hope sweden will never be absorbed. i see our union as enriching the countries when we enter, and i have yet to see an enlargement that has made our union weaker. every single enlargement, although it has been difficult, has made our union stronger, has made it richer, has made it more ambitious, and i for one do not belong to those who believe that history has come to an end. article 49 applies. finally, one of the gentlemen said there are other countries as well that we have not debated on. that is true. article 49 applies to each and every european country, including those that have not yet been mentioned in the debate today.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for a very lively and substantive debate on eu enlargement and our strategy – now, next year and in the near future. this debate has been in line with the best democratic traditions of this parliament, and i am grateful for the broad general endorsement of our carefully conducted enlargement policy. you have rightly underlined the importance of simultaneous and parallel commitment and conditionality in eu enlargement. i agree, and i want to underline the paramount importance of being both fair and firm at the same time. we have to be fair and respect the commitments we have undertaken to the countries that are covered by our consolidated enlargement agenda in south-eastern europe, that is, the western balkans and turkey. at the same time, we can be as firm and as we are fair, and we need to apply rigorous conditionality when dealing with these candidate countries and potential candidates. these only work together – in tandem, in unison – and that is, indeed, the best recipe for driving reforms and democratic and economic transformation in south-eastern europe. it is also the best recipe for anchoring stability in the western balkans and driving reforms that enhance fundamental freedoms in turkey. i think mrs flautre is right that there cannot be, by definition, a more attractive portfolio than enlargement. however, i am a man of moderation – believe it or not – and i believe that there are certain limits to how much attraction and fascination a man can take. and, as carl requested, some work will also be left for my successor, for the next commission and for this parliament. be that as it may, it has been great to work with you. together we have made a difference. let us recall that eu enlargement has greatly contributed to the fact that europe today is whole and free. let us keep it that way, and let us complete our work in south-eastern europe. (applause)
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 november 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the council on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0096/2009 b7-0220/2009), the oral question to the commission on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0097/2009 b7-0221/2009). i would remind you that today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women, and that is why this debate is particularly important to us.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the honourable member and chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality has raised a serious and urgent issue. i want to make it clear from the outset that violence against women has no place in a civilized society. this year we are marking the tenth anniversary of the united nations resolution establishing 25 november as the international day for the elimination of violence against women. today we think of the countless women and girls who are victims of violence in war zones and conflict zones. we are aware of the suffering of women all over the world, women who are raped, abused or harassed or who are subjected to harmful practices. we express our solidarity with the victims of forced marriage and violence in the form of honour-related crimes, which can range from genital mutilation to murder. we are aware of the alarming scale of the many different types of violence perpetrated daily against women in europe. violence against women is a problem that affects a wide range of policy areas. this is clearly stated in the motion for a resolution on the elimination of violence against women which you will be voting on tomorrow. violence against women is not just a matter of crime and injustice against women but a matter of men as perpetrators and a matter of gender equality. the best strategy to combat violence is to take a holistic approach and to start from a broad definition of violence against women. in all its work on gender equality, the council is guided by the principle of gender mainstreaming. under articles 2 and 3 of the ec treaty, the council is to promote equality between women and men in all its activities. the council has on several occasions and in several different contexts addressed the problem of violence against women. i'd like to start with something positive. one of the most successful examples to date of gender mainstreaming in the eu is in the area of women and armed conflict, where a more comprehensive policy to combat violence against women is beginning to emerge. it is clear that the council's capacity to act in this area is limited to the powers laid down in the treaty and that the member states are responsible for matters falling within their competence, in particular judicial and home affairs and health matters. it is the right of member states to design their own plans to combat violence against women, but they also benefit from cooperation. but there are also measures at european level. the elimination of gender-based violence and trafficking in human beings is one of the six priority areas set out in the commission's roadmap for gender equality 2006-2010. under this heading, the commission supports member states in producing comparable statistics, raising awareness, exchanging good examples and cooperating on research. we are now looking forward to the commission's new gender equality plan 2011-2015. the stockholm programme, to be adopted next month, offers a framework to address many of the concerns about violence against women expressed by the european parliament. we look forward to an agreement on the programme and its subsequent implementation. meanwhile, much is already happening at eu level, in particular in raising awareness, collecting information and exchanging good examples. some of you were present at the presidency's recent conference in stockholm on specific strategies to combat male violence against women, which provided an opportunity for participants to exchange experiences and discuss future policies. the 2007 decision to establish the daphne iii programme, which has done so much to combat violence against children, young people and women, has also been important. i welcome the impact that the daphne programme has had and continues to have in our communities. in your resolution you rightly stressed the lack of regular and comparable data on the different types of violence against women. the council is also well aware that the compilation of accurate and comparable data is essential if we are to improve our understanding of the problem of violence against women at european level. i hope that the european institute for gender equality, set up jointly by the council and the european parliament, can make a significant contribution in this area. the council itself has already taken concrete measures to improve access to statistics on violence against women. the council has worked within the framework of the beijing action plan and adopted specific indicators in three areas which are relevant here: (1) violence against women in the home, (2) sexual harassment at the workplace and (3) women and armed conflict. we have made progress, but of course much more needs to be done. many of the world's most vulnerable women live in developing countries. aware of this, the council has adopted a series of conclusions on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation, stressing the importance of addressing all forms of gender-based violence, including harmful practices such as female genital mutilation. but we should not take this lightly. female genital mutilation, so-called honour killings and forced marriages are also a reality in the eu. the european parliament has consistently been at the forefront of calling for action against harmful practices. in line with this approach, the council reaffirmed its commitment to protecting the most vulnerable in the conclusions on the situation of girls adopted by the council last year. in those conclusions, the council stressed, and i quote, that 'the elimination of all forms of violence against girls, including trafficking and harmful practices, is crucial for the empowerment of girls and women and for achieving gender equality in society'. as the honourable member has stressed in the introduction to her question, violence against women has a detrimental impact on women's ability to participate in social, political and economic life. women who are excluded from social activities, including employment, by violence are at risk of marginalisation and poverty. this brings me back to the overall perspective i started with, and the structural nature of violence, which is emphasized in the question to the council. the problem of violence against women is a wider problem lack of equality. the wider campaign to promote women's empowerment is helping to combat violence. women who are free to exploit their full potential are less vulnerable to violence than women who are excluded. the council has also regularly declared the need to alleviate poverty among women. employment is often the best way out of poverty. more needs to be done to facilitate women's participation in the labour market. economic and social crises make women more vulnerable. at its meeting on 30 november 2009, the council is expected to adopt a series of conclusions on gender equality: strengthening growth and employment a contribution to the post-2010 lisbon agenda. the aim is to ensure that both gender mainstreaming and specific gender equality measures are given a prominent place in future strategies. as we mark the tenth anniversary of the united nations resolution establishing the international day for the elimination of violence against women, we recognise the scale of this problem. at the same time, we also welcome the fact that nations are working together to put an end to it. much of our work to combat violence against women here in europe is carried out in an international framework. at its next meeting in march 2010, the un commission on women will carry out the five-year review of the beijing action plan. the swedish presidency has already prepared a report on the progress made in the european union and the challenges that remain. on 30 november, the council is expected to adopt a number of conclusions on this matter. the beijing action plan gives us a structure and a long-term agenda for international gender equality policy. the council is actively involved in this work, a significant part of which is devoted to combating violence against women. the problem of violence against women knows no national boundaries. we must address this at international level, both within and outside europe. we must intensify the fight against gender-based violence in our international work, and we should not turn a blind eye to violence at home, against our own citizens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i repeat what i said at the beginning: violence against women has no place in a civilized society. i am grateful to parliament for raising this issue today. you have the full support of the council, of this presidency and of all those who speak out and defend the principles of justice, equality and solidarity.
member of the commission. - madam president, on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, the commission wishes to reiterate its strong political commitment to combat violence against women. this commitment is reflected in the communication on the stockholm programme which includes among its priorities the need to pay particular attention to the rights of the child and the protection of particularly vulnerable people, such as women victims of violence and the elderly. with its roadmap for equality between women and men for the period 2006-2010, the european commission has committed itself to helping to eradicate gender-based violence and human trafficking. the fight against violence against women will also be a major priority of the new strategy following the roadmap, which is currently being prepared. however, it is also essential to finance concrete actions on the ground. the commission has already made a major contribution to the fight against violence in europe through the daphne programme. its response in the field of violence prevention and victim support must now be reinforced by more concrete actions. firstly, the commission has identified actions under the daphne iii programme to put in place a more coherent european union strategy to combat violence against children, young people and women. with an annual budget of around €17 million in 2009, the commission has targeted at-risk groups directly, complementing the support provided by national programmes. the daphne iii work programme for 2010 envisages the establishment of an advisory group of experts. this group will help to identify the actions needed at community level and encourage a common approach between member states. the commission will also launch a major feasibility study to assess whether it is possible and necessary to harmonise legislation against gender-based violence and violence against children at eu level, the results of which will be presented in autumn 2010. the commission intends to bring together representatives of member state governments, community institutions, political groups, civil society organisations, international organisations, etc., with a view to developing a more explicit community policy. in addition, the exchange of good practices, standards and models of intervention was already the subject of discussions organised in december 2007 under the auspices of the european crime prevention network. finally, it must be stressed that the most extreme forms of violence against women must be combated with the most severe instruments. in march, the commission proposed an amendment to the european criminal law framework to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, which particularly affects the most vulnerable women and girls. as regards the request for a european year on violence against women, the commission concluded, on the basis of an in-depth evaluation, that such an initiative would be premature before a genuine strategy to combat violence was developed. i now turn to my colleague, mrs benita ferrero-waldner.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, i have always been - naturally as a woman myself - committed to the fight against violence against women, but also to the issue of women's empowerment in general, not only during the last five years of my term as foreign affairs commissioner, but also before that, as a minister. that is why i would like to say a few words on this point. on the external front, beyond specific interventions in developing countries, which my colleague will discuss a little later, the fight against violence against women has become an important focus of the union's human rights policy, which is reinforced by the specific guidelines adopted in december 2008. the implementation of these guidelines is articulated in particular at local level in the third countries where the european union is present. in some 90 third countries, the embassies of the eu member states and the delegations of the european commission have developed their own action plans to implement these guidelines, and a whole list of initiatives are planned for the period 2009-2010. we have consistently delivered a clear message: the violation of women's rights cannot be justified in the name of cultural relativism or tradition. in the context of these dialogues, we also offer our cooperation assistance to, for example, implement the recommendations of the special rapporteur on violence against women, strengthen national institutions dealing with gender equality issues or support the amendment of legislation that discriminates against women. the theme of "women, peace and security" on which un security council resolutions 1325 and 1820 focus our attention. in december 2008, the european union also adopted a comprehensive approach to the implementation of these resolutions. i believe that this provides a basis for common principles both for operations under the european security and defence policy and for the interventions of community instruments. these activities should enable us to integrate more effectively the women's dimension into the whole cycle of conflict, from crisis prevention, management and resolution to peacebuilding and reconstruction in the longer term. i personally have asked for the support of 40 women leaders from around the world to give a new impetus to the implementation of resolution 1325 by proposing, as you know, to hold a ministerial conference ten years after its historic adoption. and this idea -- and i'm very proud of it -- was taken up by the secretary-general of the united nations, ban ki-moon. but perhaps even more remarkable is the fact that in preparation for this ministerial conference, a growing number of states and international organizations, such as the african union, have decided to step up their efforts to promote resolution 1325, including through the development of national action plans. let me conclude, mr president, with a personal note. i have greatly appreciated the opportunities that the european union's policies, both internal and external, have offered for the fight against violence against women, and i welcome their support in general. i am very pleased to see that action, which in the past was often a little limited to personal commitment, is now part of a totally joint effort.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of violence against women is a very important issue, which requires greater effort and commitment from all: the european commission is also working on a new strategy for the european union. violence against women, in addition to being a violation of human rights, has serious individual and social consequences which cannot be ignored and is therefore an issue that needs to be addressed from different angles. on the cultural side, we must combat the idea that there can ever be a justification for violence based on cultural, religious or social aspects. information and awareness campaigns must also be organised among young people and therefore within schools. the organization of a european year, as repeatedly called for by the european parliament, could have the right european and international impact to build a more coherent and effective policy. on the political side, however, it is essential to put the issue on the national, european and international political agendas. i therefore believe that we should create an ever stronger link - and i conclude here - between the european union and the united nations, so that we can all work together in the same direction. in this respect, the hearing of the un deputy secretary-general, asha-rose migiro, in the european parliament was exemplary. i therefore wish all of us cooperation that will make us stronger and stronger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to dedicate this international day against violence against women to the memory of anna politkovskaya, a journalist and a woman who paid with her life for her love of truth, to african women in conflict, to the many sufferings of women in europe, which is often overwhelmed. these are testimonies that contrast with the degraded and consumerist image that the media system often offers of female identity, helping to create a culture of oppression and humiliation of women, which is also a serious violence against which europe must speak and act. it is urgent to create a coherent european statistical system, particularly with regard to minors, trafficking, physical and sexual violence, and women in vulnerable groups, such as immigrants. but we also want to see concrete results from the european union's guidelines for women in armed conflict, which were also referred to earlier by the commissioner, at least by supporting, even financially, those projects often run by small associations, local ngos, also in those countries which are involved in reintegrating and supporting women victims of violence. we know that we have a new opportunity today, the opportunity offered by the treaty of lisbon and the stockholm programme, to make this prevention a community matter. but we must denounce another aspect of violence: the context in which the violence occurs. violence among young people and minors is increasing, linked to the use of alcohol and drugs, and perhaps we talk too little about this when we talk about violence against women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with what mr matera and mr stassen have said about cultural and religious violence, i should like to take a moment to tell you about an experience i had as a volunteer on one of my missions. it's the story of a woman, karin's story, the story of a woman who didn't want to wear the burqa. her husband, to punish her, poured acid on her, did it in one night, did it while she was sleeping. karin now wears the burqa, not because she wants to, but to cover up the traces of this tragic violence. i hope that this day will not just be a day to remember, but that it will help all those women who suffer violence every day and that words can be turned into deeds and concrete actions.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to briefly discuss somalia and in particular the very serious problem that is caused by piracy off the coast of somalia. i will not go into all of the background: the country has been in dire straits for more than 18 years, the humanitarian situation is horrible, and there is strife throughout the country. there is a process with the transitional federal government, but it is fragile – to put it in the mildest possible terms – and it requires sustained efforts by the international community to gradually move the country towards reconciliation and gradually build up some sort of functioning state that can restore some kind of stability to this horribly torn country. piracy is a very serious threat indeed. addressing that requires a broad engagement within the country itself which, as indicated, is enormously difficult given the current security situation in the country. accordingly, as you have noticed, our current efforts have been concentrated on practical assistance that can be delivered outside somalia for the benefit of the country and the people. we are of course discussing, as you might be aware, further steps in that particular respect. on the specific problem of piracy, the atalanta naval operation continues to operate successfully off the coast of somalia. all shipments from the world food programme have been safely delivered to somalia from mombasa to mogadishu and to berbera. no successful attacks have occurred in the gulf of aden since early may 2009. this is, at least to a certain extent, the outcome of the commitment of the eu member states and the rest of the international community, which has helped to produce a high-level generation of significant naval assets. the operation’s success in this limited respect is also the result of close cooperation between the civilian maritime community and the eu operational headquarters at northwood in the uk. this has allowed the development of best management practices which are also increasingly respected by seafarers. there has also been very effective implementation of the coordinated mechanism for the naval protection of commercial traffic in the gulf of aden. for the time being, therefore, it can be said that piracy in the gulf of aden has been contained, but still continues. for this reason, the council has decided to extend the counter-piracy operation until december 2010. this means that we have to be able to sustain our current efforts and maintain the right level of military resources. in parallel, we expect un security resolution al1846 to be extended over the coming days. in spite of what i have said, there is no room for complacency. pirates continue to extend their activities further to the east into the indian ocean, and with the end of the monsoon season we have recently witnessed a new surge of attacks to the north and north-east of the seychelles, which is quite a distance away. no fewer than 11 ships are currently being held – all of them following attacks in what is referred to as the somali basin – with a total of 250 crew members. with operation atalanta we have reinforced our capabilities in this remote maritime area. additional patrol aircraft have been deployed in the seychelles, and i can announce that swedish maritime patrol aircraft will join the force in the seychelles as well. this has proved helpful. for the time being, additional protection measures are already in place or planned on a national basis, with france, and more recently spain, offering an appropriate and effective response. there is also the protection of the internationally recognised transit corridor in the gulf of aden. that is the recommended route through the gulf, and all ships benefit from naval protection irrespective of their flag. we currently have naval units there from the european union, from nato and from the us-led coalition maritime forces with very good coordination of the patrols and with the very essential intelligence cooperation that is necessary for an operation of this sort. china is now willing to associate itself with this coordination mechanism and to participate in the protection. this means that existing mechanisms will have to be evolved and widened. it could in due course lead to china, and possibly other maritime powers, taking some responsibilities. others – russia, india and japan – have also deployed naval assets, and they should be invited to join this mechanism as soon as possible. coordination is of course the key to success. i know that there is some interest in parliament in the rather difficult question of the trial of suspected pirates who have been arrested and apprehended by atalanta units. there are currently 75 suspects being held in kenyan jails. the legal process involved amounts to nine different trials and creates a significant additional burden on the kenyan judicial system. the proper conduct of these trials is of course essential if we are to maintain both the deterrent effect provided by atalanta and the overall credibility of our counter-piracy efforts. a recent agreement with seychelles, which i imagine you are aware of, on the transfer of suspected pirates constitutes an important additional contribution in this respect. piracy is a very lucrative business, and it is important that in every single respect we gear our different activities towards reducing every possibility of the pirates gaining further money from these truly despicable operations that they carry out. at the end of the day, of course, what we are doing in the maritime waters cannot be a substitute for what needs to be done in somalia or on somalia itself, but that, as i indicated earlier, is something where immediate success cannot be taken for granted. we will have to continue the maritime operation and this will require firstly that we are prepared to sustain a long-term commitment of military assets; secondly that we will have to strengthen coordination cooperation between all of the powers and international bodies involved in this operation; and thirdly that we must also help to develop regional maritime capabilities as the burden cannot only be on us. the maritime international organisations, such as the contact group on piracy, will have an important role to play here. finally, this is one of the areas where we have demonstrated the capabilities of the esdp in recent years. go back a couple of years and few of even the most ambitious here would have envisaged us operating european union naval assets in the gulf of aden or in the indian ocean. imperative humanitarian and other reasons have led us to what has, within the limits of what is possible, so far proved to be a relatively successful operation, but let us not have any illusions. much remains to be done. we need to sustain the operation, and the support of the parliament is very important in this respect.
member of the commission. − madam president, this time the focus on the whole question of somalia is wider, also addressing the root causes of this scourge with sustainable methods. the commission has always maintained that piracy can only be finally eradicated by addressing the underlying causes, beginning with the instability in somalia and also addressing the country’s development needs, which manifest themselves in the most extreme poverty, including massive illiteracy and vulnerability. therefore, a comprehensive approach to addressing the challenges of security and development in somalia, which have been mentioned, is essential. this will require the establishment of a functioning state, capable of enforcing laws and providing at least basic services. in the medium to long term, governance, including institution-building and security, education and economic development are necessary preconditions for the eradication of the incentives which now exist for somalis to become pirates. on the security side, a rapid approach is essential. the african union has, as you know, a pivotal role to play, not least through amisom, which is the african union force providing security for the transitional federal government in mogadishu. through the africa peace facility, the european union is a major contributor to amisom, providing funds to support african union forces. the new contribution agreement of eur 60 million has just been finalised. this is part of a pledge made by the commission at the conference in brussels in april this year. the joint strategy paper 2008-2013 defines commission assistance to somalia and, in concrete terms, the ec support programme for somalia has a budget of, altogether, eur 215.4 million from the european development fund (edf) for the period 2008-2013. the operation atalanta, the eu’s first naval operation, will soon celebrate its anniversary. this operation is a success, providing deterrence to piracy but also raising the awareness of the shipping community on best self-protection measures. but, we all know that much more has yet to be done. in parallel to the operation atalanta, the commission uses the instrument of stability, a financial instrument, to support the kenyan justice system – as the president of the council has just mentioned – because kenya has undertaken to prosecute transferred suspected pirates apprehended by the operation, and it is necessary that there should not be impunity. this support to the kenyan judiciary system includes a sort of mixture of capacity-building measures for prosecution, police, judicial and prison services. the programme is implemented through the unodc at a cost of eur 1.75 million. in a broader context, regional maritime capacity development is also an important aspect of ensuring security in the area. the commission supports the implementation of the so-called djibouti code of conduct of the international maritime organisation, once again by using our instrument for stability. a programme dealing with certain critical maritime routes, including the horn of africa and the gulf of aden region, will assist the creation of a regional training centre for maritime affairs in djibouti. this centre will focus on the capacity-building and training of maritime administration staff, officials and coastguards of the region, including from somalia, puntland and somaliland, as feasible. a regional information-sharing centre in sana’a, yemen, has also been identified for funding in 2009. the first phase of this programme has already started and technical feasibility studies are launched. let me now turn to another important issue before concluding. the commission is developing an integrated maritime policy – including an external dimension – and also integrated maritime surveillance across the sectors and borders to generate maritime situational awareness of activities at sea, impacting, among other things, on maritime safety and security but also on general law enforcement. the current swedish presidency has initiated a significant effort to ensure the inter-pillar coherence of eu maritime policy, ensuring the link between community action and the work developed under the second pillar, notably by the european defence agency. we believe that the integration of maritime surveillance has a strong potential to assist eu operations against piracy, as the harvesting of maritime surveillance data from different sources allows authorities acting at sea to take decisions and react in a more informed manner. all these different strands of activities, which are also outlined in the ep resolution of last october, constitute the commission’s contribution to the fight against piracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. we welcome the extension of the atlanta mission. i have been trying to deal with the problem of somalia for about ten years and we cannot deny that on too many occasions europe's intervention has not been timely enough. the somali situation is becoming more and more tragic every day, both because of the effects of international terrorism and those linked to piracy and the human tragedy experienced by millions of people, especially women and children, who are subjected to violence, face hunger every day and are forced on too many occasions to flee across the desert to seek refuge on the european coasts. in the context of the fight against terrorism, it is necessary to launch initiatives that give hope to the region's economy, but also to monitor the situation in the refugee camps in libya, where very serious situations of violence and violation of human rights, especially against somali women, are often reported. the permanent representative of the somali transitional government to the united nations, dr. yusuf mohamed ismail bari-bari, during a hearing organized by the european people's group, recalled how somalia has been further impoverished by the illegal fishing off its coast and how many of the pirates are also former fishermen who have not found justice and attention. the european union must not only fight terrorism, but also bring justice, hope and economic growth to a country which has been ravaged by years of war.
the socialist group, through this debate and the resolution we will adopt tomorrow, wishes to express its strong support for the european union's commitment to combating piracy and, at the same time, wishes to express its concern at the dramatic internal situation in somalia, which reinforces the need and urgency for action to stabilise the country and to tackle the root causes of piracy. the atalanta mission is a success story: the eu has also been able to transport 300,000 tonnes of aid and has improved the security of all maritime traffic in the gulf of aden, demonstrating the potential and operational and political added value of the esdp. at the same time, greater european commitment is needed, alongside the african union, to support the process in djibouti and for this reason, while aware of the difficulties and risks, we express our support for the possibility of an esdp mission in somalia which the council has begun to examine. we therefore hope that all the groups will help to reinforce this message in their amendments and in the debate, rather than succumbing to the temptation of exploiting a dramatic event such as that in somalia for the purposes of internal political polemics in certain countries which have nothing to do with this debate and with the tasks of parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the subject we are discussing tonight is only a small part of a much larger problem. the issue of fair treatment between imports and the conditions imposed on our producers does not concern only meat and meat imports, but many other sectors of production. as you know, europe is a net importer of meat. we produce 60% of our own needs exclusively in our own continent of europe. that means we're forced to import. we want to guarantee the conditions of consumption and the health of our consumers. we would like to see the same thing no longer being said, namely that we cannot impose the same conditions on imports, because that is certainly not the way forward. if there are conditions for product traceability, which are used to adjust standards at home for our consumers, i think it is important to maintain those standards for both our domestic producers and imports from abroad.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet and thank the president of the court of auditors, with whom we have worked fruitfully during this period. as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i have argued from the outset that the role of the court of auditors is crucial. it is essential because the court operates in a very sensitive area, which all users of the european union look at with great interest and critical eye as regards the transparency, fairness and legality of public spending and management of public funds. i think it is necessary today to stress that the court must always be guaranteed its independence and autonomy in the performance of its work, because it is essential to enable us to evaluate and decide properly. we also ask the court to put parliament and the committee on budgetary control in a position to carry out their work as efficiently as possible. the right balance must be struck to spend public funds effectively and efficiently, because they are intended for important objectives such as economic development and employment. at the same time, the serious irregularities and errors which the court also found in the last financial year must be punished severely, and we must try to avoid unnecessary formalities and red tape. as commissioner kallas said, parliament must work hard to find the balance in the acceptable risk of error. in the report we have read with great attention there are lights, but also many shadows. it's the shadows we have to work on to try to reach the top. as the honourable members have said, the main problems concern the structural and cohesion funds. it is true that the court, in the course of its work, points out errors and irregularities in relation to these funds, but those who are able to look in depth and analyze can see - as judicial experience in recent years in many countries also teaches - that behind some indicators of error there are even more serious facts. there may be fraud, there may be deceit. i am referring in particular to certain indicators of error, such as infringements of the procurement rules, over-billing, etc. that's what you have to work on to get better. i believe that the commission should reward those member states which are acting in a virtuous manner and punish and sanction those member states which do not comply with the rules. i also think it is very important that olaf should take the lead from the court of auditors and improve its work further, because it is in everyone's interest. i believe that only through cooperation between the various bodies - parliament, the court of auditors and olaf - will the financial interests of all citizens of the union be protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european court of auditors' 2008 report gives us first of all - as has already been said - good news: the high level of irregularity in the share of community expenditure has increased from 60% in 2005 to 31% in 2008. this is an important achievement, a sign of a positive path which we must continue to follow. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i think that is what we have to focus on in the coming months and years. as regards the structural funds, compared with the 2000-06 framework analysed by the court, the management and control systems for the 2007-13 period are bringing stricter rules and greater reliability and transparency in spending, as well as greater responsibility for the member states. the court of auditors strongly emphasises the need for further simplification. there is therefore a lot of work to be done to simplify the rules even further. the quality of economic growth and transparency in the use of community resources are two objectives of the same battle we must fight. i believe that we must also do this by making our debates more public with ourselves and, above all, with the citizens of the community. cohesion policies, the structural funds and regional policies are and will remain a crucial element of the european project and have been able to give substance to the union's founding values. we must work together to ensure effectiveness and transparency in the years ahead.
i think that the agreement between google and the american publishers certainly contains elements of interest and new prospects which are also important for us. in addition to these positive aspects, however, we must also take into account the critical elements it contains. for it to be positive, it is necessary to introduce a change of perspective on the whole complex issue of copyright, overcoming the opposition between the demand for freedom of access to cultural products online and the exclusive and unconditional protection of copyright. it is true that the system envisaged by google would open up a great opportunity for all users to access works, especially those out of print or difficult to find in the bibliography, and at the same time it presents an opportunity for authors and publishers to renew their cultural offer and to broaden their audience. however, it is also true that, because the agreement covers only books and works registered with the us copyright office or published in the united kingdom, canada or australia and because no specific measure is envisaged for european or other world works so far, and because google has merely declared a general willingness to reach similar agreements with other countries , google is in a monopoly position under the agreement, also because of the huge advertising resources that the new system will mobilise. the impact will also be felt by the european cultural industries. firstly, because of the delay that europe would incur in the whole project of digitising libraries. in addition, a great many european books have already been registered with the us copyright office since the 1980s. this would subject them to the new access rules of the google system. many european works are still held in us libraries, which have given google the opportunity to digitize its catalogue. the european commission has launched a european project which has so far had less impact than what google books has to offer. the agreement between google and the us cultural industries thus raises the issue of the need for a synthesis between copyright protection and production and accessibility for users, also in view of the technological revolutions of the last decade. the risk is that europe is lagging behind in reaching this possible new model. i am quite frank with you, commissioner, that i do not think that the proposals which have been put forward here are sufficient to solve the problem we are facing. we need a solution which unites the countries of europe and not one which makes the member states responsible for the action they take.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank very quickly parliament, all the committees, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report. we've prepared a report that highlights the world of volunteering. across europe, 100 million people are engaged in these activities and selflessly give of themselves every day for the good of others and our communities. this is the work we have done, increasing the budget and strengthening local and regional activities for the benefit of the associations. i thank commissioner šefčovič and the swedish presidency for the excellent work we have done together. i think this year will mark the beginning of a real interest by parliament in this sector, which some have called the backbone of our society. i would like to thank again all those who have worked on this important dossier.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of violence against women, dedicating my vote to the almost seven million italian women who suffer violence from men every year. i would also like to dedicate this to all the women in europe who are in the same situation. we are sometimes tempted to think that this is a phenomenon on the fringes of our culture, when in reality violence against women is perpetrated mainly within the walls of the home. that is why it is a phenomenon that concerns us very closely. older women have a greater degree of difficulty in protecting themselves. so we must not forget them, because violence is not only physical but also cultural, and it can also be represented by the deprivation of freedom of movement. moreover, women were children before they came of age, and violence against a child will forever deprive her of the joy of living. i hope therefore that our parliament will now take concrete action to ensure that this is not just a good idea.
in writing. - mr president, volunteering is an expression of european social values such as solidarity and non-discrimination. it contributes to the personal development of volunteers and creates social cohesion. it therefore needs the proper recognition and support of the european institutions, the member states, local and regional authorities and the various components of civil society, each in accordance with its own competences. the european year of volunteering in 2011 will give a european dimension to the activities organised in this field and, as a result, the hope is that this will have a greater impact on civil society. the provision of eur 3 million for preparatory work in 2010, the increase in appropriations by the european parliament to eur 8 million for 2011 and a high co-financing rate of projects, namely 80%, will indeed make it possible to achieve the objectives set by working together at various levels. finally, it is worth recalling the role that voluntary work, if well supported, can play for retired workers, given the increasing ageing of civil society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, persecution and discrimination on the basis of religion are not new in vietnam, they have not been going on for a day or a month, but for 50 years. i shall limit myself to the most recent cases, such as the demolition of the cathedral in the city of vinh long, which was replaced by a public park, or the deployment of riot police and bulldozers to remove the statue of the virgin from the catholic cemetery in hanoi. and yet, a priest and his parishioners were sued for bringing a priest's threatener to the police station. from victims, christians thus become criminals. the escalation of authoritarianism is taking on disturbing connotations. in fact, the hanoi government, for security reasons and to combat anti-party movements, ordered the blocking of ten websites that regularly disseminate politically dangerous material. the situation in laos is also very worrying, where persecution of christians is continuing with arrests and threats, sometimes even to the point of their being expelled from their villages. mr president, religious freedom is a natural human right for everyone. it's not a favor granted by those in power. we must therefore act and make a commitment.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my position on this motion for a resolution is similar to that of a man who belongs to discriminated minorities, who has won a nobel peace prize and who presides over the world's leading power: i mean, obama. the principles of this resolution are my principles, but i believe that we must not repeat the mistakes of the left-wing political parties, which only want to declare rights, not actually achieve them. minorities must be defended in china as in every part of the world, but before such a demanding resolution is tabled, a strategy must be devised, and all the forces and the whole parliament must be coordinated so as not to delay and pollute the negotiations with the chinese government. do not believe that the problems of minorities and the death penalty in china can be solved without any consideration of the chinese government. it's not possible. that's why it's good that obama, without backing down an inch, maintains a relationship with the chinese government that - we have to admit it - is trying to start a better conversation in all negotiations with the western world. i wonder: why should a resolution be tabled - even if it is acceptable - a few days after the nanking meeting, without prior coordination by all? why introduce a resolution which has already been tabled several times at a time when there is fortunately a window of opportunity with the chinese government? why introduce a resolution which could possibly damage the start of a new relationship with the chinese government? for these reasons, while i share the principles of the resolution, which are my principles, i shall abstain from voting, because strategically i believe that it may harm, rather than help, the new path we are taking with the chinese government.
i am sorry if i am using the wrong form, but i wanted to express my solidarity and that of my group with president berlusconi.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to join in the words of solidarity you have expressed to the president of the council of ministers of italy, silvio berlusconi, also on behalf of mr sassoli and all the members of the democratic party in the socialist and democratic group, stressing that this was an unqualifiable, unacceptable and unjustifiable act. we are proud opponents of berlusconi, but we are political opponents, for us neither premier berlusconi nor any other opponent is our enemy. there is no other way to fight and win but through political and civil war. we will not allow anyone to drag the liveliness of political dialectics into a dangerous tide of hatred and violence, which is the precursor of authoritarian and anti-democratic developments. it is right that this parliament should once again show a greater degree of serenity, respect and democratic maturity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to thank you, in a non-formal way, and from the bottom of my heart, for the most appropriate and 'undignified' word you have used, but i would like to thank my italian colleagues, and in particular mr pittella, for the words he used. i have no wish to make any political speculations, but what has happened can take us a step further from the abyss, from the precipice, and so the call that came from parliament in unison is the only one that can guide us in this difficult time. so i thank the european parliament, i thank europe for the contribution it makes to the life and development of democracy in our country.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have asked for this oral question to be placed on the agenda because we believe that parliament should receive an appropriate reply on such an important subject and that is why we are asking for the agenda to be changed.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are some urgent matters to be discussed on thursday. the third point of this urgency is the situation in azerbaijan. western media also reported about a fight involving two young bloggers and two other people in a public place, there was an arrest, there was a conviction and i think it is appropriate and right that the facts are investigated and that everything that is required by law and the law is done. but at the same time, these days, there have been very serious events in the philippines: fifty-seven people lined up to support a presidential candidate were massacred by an armed group that called on the revolutionary situation to take up arms against the government, to the point that martial law was passed in the philippines. i ask my colleagues to substitute the situation in the philippines for the subject of azerbaijan in the third item on thursday. there is a clear disproportion between the magnitude of the facts of what happened in azerbaijan and... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked for the portrait of a young iranian woman, neda agha soltan, to be exhibited in brussels alongside that of aung san suu kyi. soltan was killed while calling for freedom and transparency in iran, she became a symbol of freedom and especially of women fighting for freedom. my request was signed by 75 members and five political groups; i think it's particularly important that it be heard, especially at this time when ayatollah khamenei in iran says that he intends to suppress any form of protest and any form of opposition. i hope my request will be granted.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. in recent months this parliament has already spoken out on several occasions about the difficulties which have hit the milk sector hard, urging the commission and the council to take urgent action. we have achieved some results, albeit only partial, but on the basis of these initiatives a specific fund of eur 300 million has become available to deal with the emergency. but we must now note that the crisis affecting the dairy sector is spreading rapidly to other sectors of european agriculture, and alarming signs are appearing on the market for durum wheat, olive oil and fruit and vegetables, as commissioner fischer boel has just said. as for milk, we are facing a cyclical phenomenon which is accompanied by the difficult economic situation which has inevitably resulted in a fall in demand and the consequent stagnation of the markets, a crisis which is beginning to take on a very worrying profile, as evidenced by the numerous protests in which farmers have been the protagonists in many regions of europe. they are a symptom of an alarming contingency, of a general concern for the future of the whole sector. that is why, at the last meeting of the committee on agriculture on 1 december last, we unanimously decided to invite the commission to the house to report to us on the state of crisis in our agriculture and on the dynamics going on in the various sectors of production. on this front we expect first of all that the commission will use all the measures at its disposal to stabilise the market and to stimulate the recovery of consumption, but at the same time we believe that this opportunity should also be seized to look to the future, helping to provide assurances that the common agricultural policy will continue to be an important european policy, which will look to the interests of all the citizens and all the european territories, from northern sweden to southern cyprus. farmers expect immediate answers, and we are here today to take responsibility for speeding up the time, for facing the crisis with determination and for drawing on the lessons of recent experience, thus avoiding the loss of time and immediately remedying a situation which is likely to worsen further. we would like to have answers and perhaps some new ideas from the commission too.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the current crisis in the world of agriculture is the clear consequence of the rapid territorial expansion of the european union in recent years and, above all, of the too rapid globalisation of markets. the agricultural sector must be safeguarded and protected by applying the principles of the treaty establishing the european community, in particular articles 32 to 38, with particular reference to the objectives to be achieved by specific legal rules. in this sector, the rules governing intervention in response to the market crisis do not allow us to give a significant response to the needs of the agricultural chain with particular protection for the farmer, at a very difficult time for the whole of agriculture and in particular for the fruit and vegetable sectors, such as apples or peaches, and cereals, such as wheat and maize. the farmer must not only be helped, but he must be guaranteed market protection, as the fundamental rules of the treaty require, which is unfortunately being done in a limited way at the moment. we have seen this with the milk crisis before and with the current fruit and vegetable crisis, for example. it is time for europe to take more decisive decisions in order to give real 360-degree support to our farmers, our farms and our territory, which unfortunately is often and willingly neglected. it would therefore be better to reflect seriously on what is happening within the european market in order to favour our own agricultural products in the face of those from outside the union, and i would stress this particularly in relation to fruit and vegetables. by creating precise rules, which must be respected throughout the european union and which we must ensure are also respected by those third countries with which we have a large trade in agricultural products, we could perhaps begin to have a market with less distortion and which could protect our farmers and agricultural products in the european union more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the commissioner for his analysis, but i would like to stress that in certain sectors of production there is a crisis today which is putting agriculture at risk in certain areas of our great europe. the crisis affecting durum wheat in particular in recent months has now brought prices below the cost-covering level and we can see in many regions of europe a reduction in the area sown for the current year which is expected to reach 30%, especially in marginal areas with limited possibilities for alternative uses. the commissioner also highlighted an element in the new common market organisation for fruit and vegetables which leaves the management of the crisis to producer organisations. the resources allocated to it in the operational programmes are, of course, limited resources which are by no means sufficient to deal with a structural crisis of such a wide scope as the one we are experiencing. they can cover the needs, either, as you said, with green harvesting or with the destruction of a small part of the harvest in the case of small imbalances between supply and demand in normal years, certainly not in the case of a wide-ranging crisis such as the one we are experiencing. the same could be said for olive oil and other sectors, but i think it is important at this stage to stress that we should ask the commission to draw up a package of proposals, to draw up a comprehensive proposal covering all the other sectors which, unlike milk, have not yet seen specific action to deal with the crisis we are experiencing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the crisis in the agricultural sector is very serious and is likely to be irreversible. in my region, puglia, olive production is the main activity and one of the main sources of income. this year the price of olives has fallen to 30 euros per quintal, the price of wholesale oil to 2.50 euros per kilo, and producers are losing money at these prices. the extra virgin oil, the green gold, which has always been the pride of my land, is in danger of becoming a civil and social death. there are roadblocks and farmer demonstrations all over the territory. you say everything is fine and prices are going up, i bring you another reality that i know, because i live it every day. urgent measures are needed, and i call for the creation of a solidarity fund, as has been done for milk, also for olive and fruit production. i would like to ask for further urgent measures in the olive sector, and in particular, commissioner, for the amendment of regulation no 2568/91 on the characteristics of oils, including nuclear magnetic resonance as one of the methods of monitoring, which would make it possible to expose the continuing fraud that is taking place in supermarkets with bottles labelled 'extra virgin oil' which instead contain mixtures of rectified or refined oils.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact is that many sectors of agriculture are in crisis at the moment. i'm sure there are many reasons. one of these is probably the liberalization of agricultural policy in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is causing our farmers increasing problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if the agriculture ministers have met in paris in the last few days outside the council to discuss this matter, this is certainly a good thing in principle. but it is our task here in parliament to show our farmers our new role. we must use the rules of democracy to find solutions for a future agricultural policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i should like to recall first of all that a few months ago, on the sidelines of a meeting of the steering committee of the world trade organisation of which i am a member, a colleague from namibia expressed her disappointment that the prices of certain european agricultural and non-agricultural products in namibia were cheaper than those of local products. this is one of the many market distortions that doha must address. in this connection, we, as liberal democrats for europe, have tabled an amendment calling not only on europe, but also on the united states, as the commissioner knows very well, to abolish all forms of export subsidies as quickly as possible. secondly, on the question of services, amongst the many things to be said, i would remind you that a clear distinction must be made between services and public services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. national oligarchs in the communications sector, the banking sector, the insurance sector and others. we must really try to distinguish this from all that concerns the public service, which of course must be the responsibility of the national state. thirdly, and this has not yet been raised, we have entered the stage of the treaty of lisbon and i therefore call on the commission, as does our compromise resolution, to review the interinstitutional agreement. we must achieve a completely innovative modus vivendi in relations between parliament and the commission, so that parliament is fully informed of each negotiation, of the various stages of the negotiation, so that parliament can adopt recommendations during the negotiation, so that there can be, as in any other negotiation, but which has some similarities with the countries in the process of accession to the european union, a full and responsible role for parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a context of severe economic crisis, with very serious repercussions on employment, with many workers on the verge of losing their jobs and at the same time with many young people who are unable to find their first opportunity to enter the labour market, it is important that the european union and the member states intervene, both with global strategies and with targeted instruments. microfinance is a personal instrument whose objective is to provide an answer to all those who, excluded from the bank credit market and having difficulty finding employment, wish to start a project, an economic activity, which in any case is capable of generating individual income and thus contributing to general growth. in particular, if the microcredit instrument is to be effective and give lasting results over time, it is necessary that the member states equip themselves adequately, also linking up with local administrative realities, more directly in contact with situations of social crisis and are active in making this new instrument easily accessible. it is important to emphasise that the effectiveness over time of activities financed by microcredit instruments and the possibility of achieving full social integration depend to a large extent on the accompanying guidance, mentoring and training programmes that must accompany microfinance. at the same time, given the objectives to be achieved by the microcredit instrument, it is necessary to focus on a key action, namely the active promotion of equal opportunities for women and men in accessing microfinance programmes. women are particularly discriminated against and disadvantaged in terms of access to the labour market and to conventional credit. in general, it is encouraging to note that the european parliament expresses itself in a unified and shared way on the subject of microcredit and in a socioeconomic context such as this. it is up to the council and the member states to give a signal of seriousness and commitment, giving the right direction so that the financial situation is adequate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very important if 2010 - the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion - marked the birth of a new community financial instrument dedicated to microfinance, aimed at those who are disadvantaged in access to the banking system and who have micro-enterprise projects. we know that microcredit has proved to be an extraordinary means of creating opportunities for self-employment and widespread social value in developing countries, especially for women, becoming a new strategy of un agencies and the world bank, but it has also been successfully tested in many countries, in many european member states, including italy, especially for immigrants, for women and for young people. by approving this report, the european parliament, in the midst of a serious economic and financial crisis, is not only offering a strategic opportunity for social inclusion, but also a positive challenge to the banking system to develop a new approach and new skills in collaboration with non-profit organisations, local and national institutions. i am pleased that many of the amendments which i do not support have been accepted, but i would like to say that today we are not only asking for resources for microcredit, but we are asking for microcredit to be...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking this evening about issues which are the real social knot in our society today. we are talking about the mobilisation of the egf first, of progress in the coming days, we hope, and this european fund for microfinance is the ideal and indispensable instrument. i think it's useless to keep reminding that this is what solves or tries to solve the problems of the most needy citizens, that brings them back to have more confidence and more hope towards entrepreneurship and towards the future, so i think that here we do not have a good idea of the damage that has caused this tsunami of crisis and we hear a lot about the exit strategy, how to get out of this crisis. we shall only be able to get out of this if we solve the problem of employment, which is our tragedy, so we must try to make the timing as fast as possible and make sure that the substance around this instrument is strongly guaranteed, because we should be mobilizing resources far more important than those we are hearing about tonight and certainly not making sure that money is being moved from one instrument to another, because all three have needs and need this money. i believe that these 100 million should not be taken by progress because they have the same objectives, but that it should be a completely separate and different line and should be a guarantor in the mobilisation of much more important substances.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the microfinance instrument for employment is part of a series of initiatives which have been taken at european level, it offers a fresh start to the unemployed and opens the way to entrepreneurship for some of the most disadvantaged groups in europe, including, of course, young people. the new facility should broaden the range of financial support for new entrepreneurs in the current credit crunch. individual entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs will also be assisted with guidance, training, preparation and capacity building services, as well as a reduced interest rate under the european social fund. it is clear that, given the current contraction in bank credit, given the difficulty of accessing credit today, if there is a will on the part of the weaker sectors of our society, the unemployed, the disadvantaged groups, to take action, an entrepreneurial initiative, all this must be strongly supported, because it is one of the tools that can help us to counter what is the natural epilogue to the financial crisis, namely an employment crisis that has no end. although we have signs of economic recovery, we continue to have negative signs as regards employment. but we must ensure that the transfer of funds to progress remains unchanged, in the sense that we cannot send the signal that we are diverting resources from the progress programme. these resources must be found elsewhere and, above all, they must be linked to other european initiatives, so that a strong image and a strong effort can be made in favour of the unemployed in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we come to the end of a budgetary procedure and we can look at all the work that has been done, i think we have to ask ourselves a very simple and honest question: is it a useful budget? this budget is a transitional budget, it is the budget for the transition to the europe of lisbon, it is the budget for the transition to the great economic and financial crisis which has affected the whole world. it is therefore a doubly delicate budget. responding to the crisis, but realistically recognizing that when there is a crisis, there are few resources available. to contribute positively to economic recovery, but also to cut, reduce, contain spending where possible. this budget will make available eur 141 billion for next year. a little bit more than was available in 2009, but with a huge effort, a lot of work on priorities, to direct the available resources to the real priorities of the moment. the two budget lines at the centre: competitiveness and the environment. competitiveness, because it contains social policies, employment policies, the delicate balance of the structural funds, which still form the backbone of redistributive policies within europe. this line will amount to some 65 billion euro next year. but also the environment, including agricultural policies, which will have an allocation of some eur 60 billion. but this budget, the 2010 budget, is above all the budget of the economic recovery plan. it was highly sought after last year, but not fully funded in 2009. today, thanks to a strong effort to reorganize resources, finally 2.5 billion of investment in energy infrastructure and broadband will be made possible. but there has also been a great effort to make this budget in line with the lisbon strategy, to put even more resources into it than the commission has put into the project, into erasmus, into lifelong learning, because there is a question, if it is a useful budget, which must be asked honestly, but above all there is a fundamental yardstick: the usefulness of the budget must be measured by the european citizens. it must be a budget which is useful to each of the citizens who make up europe, and it is on this usefulness, measured by the people, that i believe the delicate debate on the revision of the margins of availability and the resources which we want to ensure for this europe for its policies should be opened and carried on.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur and all the other members who have worked hard to create this new instrument which will allow micro-credit to be granted to small and mediumsized enterprises and to people who have lost their jobs in recent years. in view of the loss of 3 million jobs in the european union alone and the difficulty of banks in extending credit, this instrument will make it easier for those who want to start a new business to access the necessary resources. i am sure that this new initiative will help to create new jobs, especially if new accompanying measures such as training grants are introduced, which will enable young people to be helped in the preparation of investment projects. this instrument, mr president, must be adopted as soon as possible to give new life to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the heart of our european economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all agree on the problem of microcredit, but we must also talk about financial items. i think we should be obliged to increase this financial contribution. we must also be careful not to extend to other social actors in small and mediumsized enterprises, because microcredit was created to help the less fortunate social groups. we also have to talk about a cultural problem: in many countries, especially, i think, in the countries that need it most, there is no cultural approach to go about transcribing these sums. i strongly believe that these instruments should be taken up first by the governments concerned. there are two speeds in europe, there is the speed of the countries that have already produced it, like france and germany, there are others that instead must have a cultural approach to this problem. i am convinced that the real problem, the real stake we have in europe, is that it is not just a question of obtaining funding for its own sake, but that we must think about creating the realization of our work through the less fortunate social actor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we were in ramallah when the news came that europe had adopted a new decision on the middle east peace process. we have seen the hopeful smiles of the palestinian representatives. it was days of intense emotions and suffering, etched in the faces of children stuck to the windowsills of their homes on hebron street, the ghostly road that no palestinian can cross. the suffering of an 85-year-old woman, driven from her occupied home, forced to sleep in the cold in a tent in the garden of her former home, the suffering on the faces of those palestinians who had built a farm with european funds, which was then destroyed by israeli soldiers. israel has the right to be an independent state, but the palestinians also have the right to a homeland, a state, a passport. the council of europe's decision is a major step forward, but action must be taken now. the israeli-palestinian conflict is the tip of the iceberg of a larger conflict. on the last day of the visit, the israeli authorities prevented us, the european parliament delegation, from visiting the gaza strip. i think that the high representative, baroness ashton, should intervene on this issue to make the protest of democratic europe heard. i thank president de rossa, who led the delegation, and all the other members of the delegation, because in the days we spent in palestine the weak of palestine were able to see and hear the face and the words of a europe which defends rights and which wants and must do more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is committed to combating terrorism in all its forms. when it comes to combating terrorist offences, it is necessary to ensure that fundamental rights are fully respected and that the measures taken to combat terrorism are adequate and effective. the rights of the defence and fundamental procedural guarantees must therefore be fully respected by the union institutions, including when they establish lists of persons and entities, in this case linked to al qaeda, subject to restrictive measures, and it is equally essential that these measures are subject to adequate democratic and parliamentary scrutiny, as the treaty of lisbon rightly requires. it is therefore clear that, as parliament's legal service has also stated, any such measure will have to follow the codecision procedure, allowing the representatives of the european citizens to play their full legislative and guaranteeing role.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the contributions of the commission, the presidency and my colleagues. the stockholm programme has indeed further clarified the importance of the right of access to documents produced by the institutions of the european union. the treaty of lisbon also reaffirms the right of access to documents for natural and legal persons, but ensures that regulations are drawn up with criteria and limits tailored to the characteristics of each body. it was discussed in the house in 2009, when this parliament had the opportunity to deal with access to documents, and the sensitivities were quite varied. today, everyone agrees that the 2001 regulation needs to be substantially amended, but the solution proposed by mr cashman does not seem to be sustainable, since it extends the acquisition of documents beyond all reasonable limits, which may indeed sometimes be contrary to the prevailing public interest. here are some examples: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by gases from the atmosphere is a very good one. we remain convinced that the right of access to documents by natural and legal persons must be encouraged, with the understanding that a reasonable principle of balancing opposing needs must be identified: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we therefore have confidence in the role of the present spanish presidency and in the activities of the commission.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we are dealing with many areas this afternoon and that is what is so incredibly exciting about sitting here in the chair of the council. the subject we're going to discuss now is georgia. it is an issue which i know the european parliament is involved in and which i myself feel very strongly about. i want to make it clear from the outset that the eu fully supports the stabilisation and normalisation of georgia and democratic reforms in the country. we are assisting georgia in several very concrete ways: through the eu monitoring mission (eumm), through our active involvement and key role in the geneva talks, and through increased eu financial assistance to alleviate the humanitarian situation and support georgia's economic recovery. with the launch of the eastern partnership, the eu has strengthened its relations with, amongst others, georgia. we offer an opportunity to upgrade relations through association agreements and comprehensive free trade areas. georgia's goal is, of course, to achieve stability and prosperity. we're gonna help them on this road. but for real progress to be made, georgia must maintain its focus on democratic reforms. as always, we attach great importance to issues of good governance and human rights. we appreciate georgia's determination to continue its democratic reforms, and in particular the decision to embark on a second wave of reforms. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. of course, for its own sake and for the sake of the people who live there, but also by creating better opportunities for those living in the separatist regions. the political environment is a challenge. the dialogue between the government and the opposition must continue to work towards consensus on key elements of institution building and on issues related to constitutional reform, electoral reform, media freedom and human rights. the government of georgia must also continue to maintain contacts with the opposition and civil society. the eu is ready to help. in addition to the cooperation set out in the european neighbourhood policy action plan, the bilateral track of the eastern partnership offers a particular opportunity to make progress in this area. we are also looking at negotiating directives for an association agreement with georgia, and with armenia and azerbaijan. the process of upgrading our relations with these countries will be guided by the principles of participation, differentiation and conditionality, and shared responsibility. we welcome georgia's commitment to work towards better relations with the eu from the perspective of the eastern partnership. the eu monitoring mission is a very important stability-promoting factor in the current circumstances. the mandate has now been extended until september 2010. our focus is on confidence-building measures between the parties. following the geneva agreement on mechanisms for the prevention and management of incidents, the monitoring mission plays a prominent role in coordinating the mechanisms between the different parties. i am referring to the georgians, the russians and the de facto authorities in south ossetia and abkhazia. despite some difficulties, the parties have agreed on a number of points, including the establishment of a 'hot line' to address security-related issues at the administrative borders of south ossetia and abkhazia. the monitoring mechanism has used this to reduce tension between the parties following the incidents in the black sea, and to clarify an incident at the administrative border of south ossetia in which 21 georgian citizens were detained and later released. the monitoring mission will continue to work with the parties concerned. a shift from incident prevention to confidence-building measures will be important in order to normalise the situation. the mission is monitoring the resettlement of internally displaced persons from the war last august, new settlements and facilitating contacts between internally displaced persons and georgian authorities, ngos and international organisations. it is clear that almost all internally displaced persons displaced by previous conflicts continue to live in conditions that do not meet international minimum standards, even though the situation has improved since 2008. the mission will continue to help facilitate contacts with the authorities where possible. a key event for the mission was the implementation of two memoranda of understanding with the ministry of defence and the ministry of interior of georgia. however, we are alert to the risk that the georgian authorities will cease to apply the memoranda of understanding because of a lack of mutual trust between the parties. as you know, a report was recently published by the independent international 'fact-finding mission' on the conflict in georgia. all parties concerned, as well as the international community at large, can draw lessons from this report. but it must be seen as a whole and not selectively. the eu has consistently reiterated its unwavering support for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. we are fully convinced that an international presence is needed in georgia and we will work towards this. we regret that in the case of the osce, despite the support of a majority of states, no agreement was reached. the eu's position on the 12 august and 8 september agreements has not changed. russia shall fully implement those agreements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of south africa. we will raise this in our dialogue with russia. we must also look ahead. here, the talks in geneva are extremely important, even if they have difficulties. they are the only place where all the parties are represented and it is important that we can actually have pragmatic discussions on non-violence and international security arrangements. this is the only way forward and we look forward to the consultations planned for the end of january 2010. this would benefit all those who seek long-term stability and development for georgia and the region as a whole.
member of the commission. – mr president, president in office of the council, dear future colleague, honourable members, it is a pleasure to be here. let me also say it is a delight to have an opportunity again to share views with you on georgia. as you are aware, over the last two years georgia has been through very difficult times, both externally and internally. the war with russia in august last year, which was just mentioned, left wounds across the whole region and georgia is still struggling with basic issues such as the essential needs for more than 200 000 displaced people, some of them already uprooted since the beginning of the 1990s. and internally, last year’s conflict has increased tensions within georgia. so disputed elections for instance led to months of street protests. we are doing our utmost to help the country take the necessary steps to resolve the difficulties. first and foremost, the implementation of our pledge of assistance of up to eur 500 million in support of georgia’s recovery is being honoured by us. the implementation of the post-conflict assistance package is proceeding well and the living conditions of many have already been improved. we are keeping our promises, and our very substantial assistance is providing assistance for the resettlement of the idps, but also for economic stabilisation and support to georgia’s infrastructure. in the coming days the commission will also release the first tranche of eur 46 million of macrofinancial assistance in grants to georgia, another part of this comprehensive package. however, if we are to succeed in helping georgia out of its current difficulties, georgia must also deliver more, in particular in three areas. first, georgia should promote further democratic reforms. democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are the backbone of our relations with all our eastern partners, and the georgian president’s statement earlier this year announcing a ‘new wave of democratic reforms’, and stating that georgia’s response to russian aggression will be more democracy, more freedom and more progress, was very welcome. the local elections in tbilisi in may will be a test of these commitments, and the local elections will be very important as the tbilisi mayor will be – for the first time – elected by direct suffrage. this presents a major opportunity for georgia to restore its citizens’ trust in the electoral process – and one that must be seized, since the shortcomings of the electoral system remain a significant potential source of political instability in georgia. the second area where we need georgia to deliver is in demonstrating ‘strategic patience’ in the aftermath of the conflict. this is the wording of president saakashvili himself. as you know, the european union played a major role in bringing an end to the hostilities, and will continue to work for a durable solution. we will not waver in our support, as was said, for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia. and we will do all we can through our monitoring mission and mediator role at the geneva talks to work for a normalisation of the situation. at the same time, the isolation of the breakaway regions will not help efforts for conflict resolution. on the contrary, a smart policy of engagement with abkhazia and south ossetia is needed. we therefore appreciate the stated georgian policy of strategic patience, which increasingly recognises the need to maintain links with the breakaway regions without restrictions, in the interest of citizens, and of re-establishing stability in the region. the government of georgia’s efforts to design a state strategy for the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia deserve our support, particularly any effort for closer work in favour of its population. however, we remain concerned that the law on occupied territories – if too strictly implemented – may unnecessarily increase frictions with the entities and thus complicate the delivery of assistance. the danger is that it will impede economic relations and ensure that steps to normalise day to day contacts cannot take place. in spite of the very good advice from the council of europe’s venice commission, this law has not yet been amended by georgia, and we will continue to urge georgia to make the suggested adjustments. my third point is that georgia should actively prepare for negotiations for a new eu-georgia association agreement in the context of the european and eastern partnership. we are not sparing any effort to support georgia. preparations for the establishment of a new legal framework for our bilateral relations are proceeding quite well. we have swiftly prepared the negotiation directives for an eu-georgia association agreement, which are now currently under discussion in the council. the draft negotiation directives include the future establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. we have already presented to georgia key recommendations for steps to be taken before we can judge the country ready to embark on this area of negotiations. georgia’s resolve to use the run-up to the negotiations to speed up its own preparations is wise, and i think it is essential that it tackles the key recommendations very actively. meanwhile, negotiations on the eu-georgia visa facilitation and readmission agreements were completed at working level in november, and we are now awaiting final approval on both sides. these agreements are a milestone in our partnership, demonstrating once again the concrete benefits that our closer relationship can bring for the people of georgia. enhanced mobility will go hand in hand with enhanced security. i recently signed a joint declaration on a mobility partnership between the european union and georgia which now will be completed. to conclude, we remain deeply committed to supporting georgia in these difficult times. we are offering new opportunities that can bring tangible benefits to the country and its citizens, but georgia also has to help itself, and, if it takes good decisions, we will then be there to help every step of the way.
i believe that the difficult situation in georgia requires particular caution in combining the defence of international law with realism and a sense of responsibility. we think that the eu has done well in reaffirming its support for georgia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and at the same time we appreciate the caution shown in taking note of the elections in abkhazia, which seems to us consistent with a method focused on the constant search for dialogue and political confrontation and on support for democratic processes. the development within the region and the international context reinforce this choice for dialogue and make europe's responsibility even greater in the various areas in which it is engaged: the commission's initiatives in support of the democratic process in georgia and in support of refugees, the effort to keep the geneva talks alive, the action of the european monitoring mission, all the more valuable and irreplaceable since it is currently the only international mission in georgia. we appreciate the work of the mission and its contribution to the stabilization of the region, to the functioning of the mechanism for responding to and preventing incidents, and to the laborious rebuilding of trust between the parties. at the same time, we are aware that the development of the democratic process, towards which we must be generous and demanding, and the association agreement can be the key to a lasting change in the georgian scenario.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has affected the whole of europe, it has affected practically the whole world, but here in the european union it has probably particularly affected the countries of central and eastern europe, the new member states, for a number of reasons: firstly, because they are obviously weaker economies than the more mature, more industrialized, more consolidated economies of western europe and also because they are economies which, not having a financial system where the crisis has been generated, have been dependent, to finance their growth, in a high percentage, on direct investment from abroad. investments that, with the outbreak of the crisis and, above all, with the worsening of the crisis in 2008, have come to a standstill and have left these economies with financing needs to finance their growth that they have not been able to replace with their savings and domestic resources. that said, it is also obvious that not all the economies of the countries of central and eastern europe have been affected in the same way. there have been economies that were better prepared to withstand the onslaught of the crisis; there have been economies that had succeeded, before the crisis, in carrying out policy reforms that have allowed their growth model to be built on stronger foundations. in any event, the european union and the commission, as part of the european institutions as a whole, have reacted to the crisis, and in particular they have reacted with a series of measures which have responded to a specific concern and which have been more beneficial, in relative terms, for the countries of central and eastern europe. the european economic recovery plan, adopted at the end of 2008, is a fiscal stimulus plan which has naturally been strongest in the large economies of the euro area, in western europe, but which, by encouraging domestic demand activity in western european countries, has allowed the market to remain a source of growth through external demand for central and eastern european countries. in addition to the european economic recovery plan, the lending activity of the european investment bank has been increased by decisions taken by the european institutions. the figures for 2009 are of course not closed, but i can anticipate that the lending activity of the european investment bank at the end of this year will probably exceed by more than 50% the lending activity of the european investment bank in the year before the crisis, in 2007. the european investment bank has given specific priority to its financing operations in central and eastern european countries, along a number of lines, in a number of activities, using the instruments which the bank had already put in place before the crisis, such as jeremie, jessica, jaspers and other types of operations. the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), which is not strictly an institution of the european union, has also stepped up its activities under the impetus of the european countries and the european commission, which are shareholders in the bank. the structural funds have also played a positive role; they themselves always play a positive role with countries in need of the benefits of cohesion policy, but decisions have been taken since the crisis, for example, to increase the amount of resources that can be advanced from the structural funds for the countries that benefit from it and, in particular, for the countries of central and eastern europe. unfortunately, the council did not support an initiative by the commission to allow the european social fund to finance 100% of a whole series of activities to support workers and active labour market policies during the crisis years (2009 and 2010). as you also know, the balance of payments facility was an instrument which had not been used since 1993. this instrument, which is used to provide financing for countries with external financing difficulties, due to their balance of payments, or for countries with difficulties in financing their budgetary needs, has been increased from a ceiling of eur 12 billion to a ceiling of eur 50 billion at the initiative of the commission, with the agreement of the council and, of these eur 50 billion, some eur 15 000 have been used for operations to provide financial support to three countries in central and eastern europe, members of the european union: hungary, latvia and romania. finally, i can mention the so-called vienna initiative, promoted and encouraged by the european institutions, together with international financial institutions, which has made it possible to coordinate the action of the private financial system which, in many of these countries, is basically organized around western european banks which have invested and which have branches and offices in the countries of central and eastern europe. the vienna initiative has made it possible to coordinate actions, to coordinate the maintenance of the positions and risks taken by private banks in these countries, to maintain to the maximum a financial system which helps to finance the consequences of the crisis and which helps to finance the investments necessary to get out of the crisis, and in the face of the announcements of excessive risks taken by some western european banks established in these countries. the truth is that, so far, there have been no 'victims' among these banks, but rather, these banks have maintained a reasonable level of capitalisation and financial activity within the difficult conditions in which the system operates. we are already seeing positive signs today. we also see, no doubt, significant challenges. so it's not all done. specific attention must continue to be paid to how to use, how best to use the instruments in the hands of the european institutions, to help those countries to embark on a path of recovery from the crisis. if i can give you a positive example, i will mention poland, which is the only country in the european union which continues to maintain positive growth rates and which has not had to show negative growth rates at any time during the crisis. the only one in the whole of the european union is a country in central and eastern europe, one of the new member states. finally, i would like to mention the importance of the euro as the anchor of strategies to withstand the onslaught of the crisis and to get out of it. the euro is a point of reference for the appropriate strategies to overcome the crisis. there is a country in that region that has entered the euro area in the midst of the crisis, slovakia, and just yesterday the slovak authorities held a conference in bratislava congratulating themselves on the way in which the euro has protected them from the worst consequences of the crisis and is helping them to get through the crisis in much better conditions than they would have had to endure in a non-euro area scenario. another country in the area, estonia, wants to join the euro area, wants to join the euro, to incorporate its currency into the euro in 2011, and so far the indicators and the degree of compliance with the criteria of the maastricht treaty, now the lisbon treaty, indicate that this objective is possible. we cannot guarantee this until the corresponding convergence report is published next spring, but it is possible that estonia will be in the euro area in 2011. for countries outside the european union but belonging to this region, candidate countries or potential candidates, membership of the european union is also serving as a powerful anchor to guide the right strategies and the right policies. so it is true that the difficulties are many. it is true that these countries have more fragile economies. it is true that the consequences of a crisis such as the one we are experiencing are, for the citizens of those countries, many times more painful than the consequences for the citizens of countries with much more developed, much stronger, much more consolidated welfare systems. but it must be said that the instruments in the hands of the european institutions and the very fact of their membership of the european union and the possibility of membership of the economic and monetary union are a positive element and not an obstacle to dealing with a crisis such as the one we are experiencing.
the consequences of this serious financial and economic crisis have been felt in all countries of the world and, of course, in europe, and in europe, the weakest countries, those we are talking about, have been the most affected. these are countries that have recently joined the union and are outside the euro system. it is therefore important to think about them and identify the most effective actions so that they can be integrated into the european group and can subsequently participate in the life of this part of the world on an equal footing with the others. then monetary policy interventions are necessary, starting with those of the european central bank, because without aid to increase their gross domestic product, without investment in their production systems, they will not be able to reduce the imbalances which they are currently suffering from and to meet the maastricht criteria and to enter the euro system. it is also important, as you have said, that there are other measures, such as the facilitated use of european funds and eib financing. i think we must never forget that these actions must be carried out in the context of contextual interventions also for other weak areas of europe. it is not just the countries we are talking about, as we unfortunately know, and i believe that for all these reasons the establishment of a european financing system that can support investment with a global vision of europe can no longer be postponed: i am talking about the creation of a fund funded by eurobonds, which i consider to be the only viable solution available to the member states and the european union. the time has come, at this very moment, to show political courage and foresight in the will to overcome the crisis and to create the conditions for a competitive development of europe, capable of guaranteeing the well-being of all our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for teresa jiménez-becerril barrio's proposal for a european charter for the rights of families of victims of terrorism and to stress that this represents an extraordinary opportunity for europe to give a clear indication of the concept of terrorism, bearing in mind that the absence of this indication led to the failure of the barcelona process in 2005, when the heads of state and government of the euro-mediterranean countries failed to reach an agreement, and that this represents an extraordinary opportunity today to relaunch dialogue with the other side of the mediterranean on new bases, starting from a clear statement of the concept that is the foundation of our humanity and our civilization, namely the sacredness of life.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, you were right to stress how emotional this debate is, and at this moment we are thinking of all the victims who have been struck by terrorism in a completely blind and completely unjust way. as president lópez aguilar said, this is a terrible form of crime. the first thing i would like to say is that the stockholm programme really took the victims into account. we must, in fact, embark on a european policy that is much more attentive to the victims of organised crime and terrorism. i would like to tell mrs teresa becerril that we are moving towards a charter of rights for victims of terrorism. you have made your wish very clear and i think you have, madam, with all the painful personal experience that you have. we have analysed and will analyse in 2010 all the shortcomings that exist today in the protection of victims of terrorism in the various member states. yes, you are right. we must somehow harmonize our legislation on terrorism and the victims of terrorism. europe really needs to react with one voice against terrorism. we shall, on the basis of this study, see how we can harmonize and bring together all the measures which can improve the situation of victims of terrorism in europe. this will be the subject of the action plan, and we will certainly have to deal with this problem of protecting victims in the light of what was said during the debate, namely, first of all, to try to make known the tragedy and suffering of the victims, who are often the object of silence, if not of contempt. secondly, we must ensure that compensation is paid promptly. you have rightly insisted on the prompt payment of compensation for this absolutely undeserved and unjustified suffering. you also mentioned the delegitimization of speech, because we cannot tolerate speech that could, in some way, give the feeling that killing innocent people, hurting innocent people, can be a way of serving humanity. we must be extremely firm on this language, which denies all the values of the european union. i should also like to congratulate the european parliament, madam president, for having allocated one million euros to all our programmes to help the victims. once again, i am very pleased that joaquín almunia is here with me tonight, because we are both really pushing the commission to take action on this. in the context of this multiannual stockholm programme, the european union must have exemplary legislation for the protection and assistance of victims of terrorism. i wanted to say this in response to your various interventions, which, believe me, did not leave joaquín almunia and myself indifferent.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the group i represent, the efd, is very clear: the commission is asked by this oral question to challenge the implementation of the judgment of the court of justice of strasbourg, which, i would like to stress, is not an institution of the european union, against the presence of the crucifix in school classrooms. i want to make it very clear that this decision is an unacceptable violation of the principle of subsidiarity, which is the foundation of the european union and also a guarantee of the rights of the peoples and the member states. the european union as we conceive and support it would not be imaginable without the support and foundation of the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to start with a general consideration: it is clear that to remove someone and something that was already there cannot be considered by anyone an act of democracy and freedom, as some have argued, but rather an act of thought police, an anti-democratic act. if there is a crucifix on a school wall and it is torn off, that is not a secular wall, but an empty wall, where the void is chosen as a confessional symbol, an educational operation in a negative sense, the worst imaginable and can be considered one of the many signs of cultural and spiritual suicide in the west. the judgment of the strasbourg court presupposes a concept of religious freedom which, if carried to its ultimate consequences, would guarantee, would impose a sense of dominance on every citizen to live in an environment which is in accordance with his beliefs. i don't think that's what religious freedom is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we must understand each other well when we talk about religious freedom, we are not talking about something that is not clear. we 're on a completely different plane here: the display of the crucifix is not just a fideistic fact in our culture, it is something much more important, universal. the symbol of the cross, the symbolism of the cross, has a universal message, among other things, it is a message of peace, of brotherhood, as we have been taught, to name just one, by a great metaphysician like rené guénon. from the traditional point of view of these great masters of traditional culture, this value is very clear, but it is equally clear that we are faced with this judgment, the extirpation of anti-traditional conceptions that push for uniformity of thought, there is something that contradicts the true spirit of the european union, and this is the incredible thing. there is almost an intention to distract our peoples from any reference to values and symbols which express verticality, spirituality, beyond the historical fact, the link to a specific religious confession, it is a universal symbol, i repeat. the european union, on the other hand, must safeguard the right of peoples to persevere in the use of symbols, starting with the cross. europe must have the courage to take a metastatic view of these fundamental issues, to recover its role as cradle and centre, even in a spiritual sense. restore to the peoples of europe the freedom to preserve and venerate their own identity symbols in accordance with a key principle of the legal and political architecture of the european union, the principle of subsidiarity. the whole question is about this aspect, the fundamental nature of the principle of subsidiarity. i 'll conclude . this question allows us to reflect and debate on a central question: what is religious freedom for this europe? i am told that the strasbourg court's ruling is a violation of the fundamental right to religious freedom, and that it is intended to prevent a people like ours from preserving and maintaining the symbol of the cross in school classrooms as an indispensable reminder of their christian roots.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 3 november the european court of human rights accepted the application by an italian-finnish citizen to have the crucifix removed from school classrooms. similar events had occurred in the past in spain, germany, france and also in italy, where in 1988 the council of state noted that the crucifix is not only the symbol of the christian religion, but has a value of character independent of the specific confession. the italian council of state, speaking again in 2006, stated that the principle of secularism of the state cannot fail to take into account the cultural identity and civilization of a people. the question we have asked is intended to highlight the secular side of the matter, even if it is a provocation that the next step could be to bring before the court of justice in strasbourg even the symbols of catholic inspiration which are part of the traditions common to the member states, as well as the artistic and cultural representations which are widespread in our cities. even the flag of the european union, which was created for the council of europe, in the words of its author, refers to the marian iconography. the decision of the court of human rights seeks to impose from above a model of secularism which cannot be understood as proper other than subsidiarity by many member states, or worse still, to lead us to nihilism, that is the empty wall mentioned earlier by my colleague. the judgment calls into question our very identity, our european values of peace, love and civil coexistence, equality and freedom, and that is why the judgment is an attack on freedom and equal rights. the community institutions are defenders of the prerogatives of freedom. the exhibition of religious and cultural symbols in which a people recognizes itself is a manifestation of freedom of thought and it is here that the sakharov prize will be awarded tomorrow and must be protected as such by the community institutions themselves and by international organizations founded on democratic principles.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would have been very happy to listen to mr mauro, but he will be able to speak after me. i'm bound by a number of rules of law. the commission is strongly committed to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, as provided for in article 9 of the european convention on human rights and article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but it is true that the commission can only act in the context of the application of union law. however, within the union, national laws on religious symbols in public buildings are a matter for the internal legal order of the member states. the principle of subsidiarity applies in the context of the union. it is true that the principle of subsidiarity does not apply to the enforcement of a judgment of the european court of human rights, the international court responsible for ensuring compliance with the european convention on human rights. it is true that the council of europe is competent to enforce the judgments of the european court of human rights. it is also true that the enforcement of judgments of the european court of human rights is binding on all states parties to the european convention on human rights, and italy, like any party to the case, may, in accordance with article 43 of the convention, within three months of the date of the judgment, request that it be referred to the grand chamber. according to our information, the press reports, the italian state is exercising its right of appeal to the grand chamber. so that is all i could say. once again, the law of the european union is the internal legal order of the member states. however, i cannot answer on behalf of the council of europe or the european court of human rights, which have issued a decision which i understand may raise questions for your assembly. i can say that honestly, but i will listen carefully to the speeches that follow.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the commissioner for the clarity of his judgment, which effectively returns this discipline to the competence of the member states. i must say that the speaker is convinced, as are few others, of the need for the secularism of our institutions and he is also convinced that religion is not the solution to any political problem, but at the same time that the solution to political problems cannot be found by waging war on religions. that's why i'll express my thoughts through a paradox: what would happen if we applied the strasbourg judgment, that is to say, if we applied the reason for removing the crucifix from italian classrooms, in parallel with all the places where a cross is displayed for public reasons? what should we do with this flag, the flag of sweden, what should we do with this flag, the flag of finland, and the flag of slovakia, and the flag of malta, and the flag of denmark, and the flag of greece, and the flag of the united kingdom which has three crosses? because, my friends, the reason these crosses are on these flags is no different from the reason the crucifix is displayed in italian classrooms, and it is not a religious reason, it is a reason of culture and tradition. we therefore leave it to the member states to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the adequacy of the solutions which are in keeping with the sensibilities of their peoples, with respect for the experience of religious freedom and with respect for the secular nature of the institutions. that is all we ask, and that is all we ask because it is necessary to respect, above all else, not the abstraction of jurisprudence, but the truth of each man and his desire for infinity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the european court of justice has disturbed not only believers but also all those who for centuries have seen in the crucifix a sign of hope, solidarity and comfort against fear and pain. we hope that the decision will be changed by the enlarged bureau, because its unreasonableness is obvious. should we eliminate the name of the red cross itself? remove the great crosses that from the mountains overlook towns and valleys? will the queen of england be forbidden, as has already been observed, to be the head of the anglican church? however, the case raises a question of extreme importance from a civil and political point of view: the european parliament has always been a party to the european convention on human rights, and it is not a party to the european convention on human rights. does it not matter that tradition, history, intelligence, art, which for millennia have marked the identity of a people? in addition, the question rightly concerns the relationship between subsidiarity and human rights, and it is known that the latter, apart from certain fundamental principles which must be considered universal and indisputable, can have different interpretations, and that conflicts between human rights can also exist. why should we deny the states the possibility of resolving these conflicts by their own laws and of interpreting and implementing human rights in accordance with the ethical sensibilities of a given people? the question therefore goes beyond the question of the crucifix. the european court has on other occasions, in the area of the right to life, recognised the exclusive power of states to decide on the most controversial issues, such as the regulation of abortion and euthanasia. the treaty of lisbon obliges us to accede to the european convention and therefore also to respect the decisions of the european court of human rights as the european union. it is therefore worth reflecting on the court's new and different approach today. it would be a serious matter if a supranational power, especially one exercised by a limited number of people and not an expression of a democratically demonstrated popular will, became repressive and mortifying, insensitive to human feelings and hearts and therefore ultimately contrary to freedom. i therefore hope that the resolution of the people's party will be voted on and that it will be voted on in large numbers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the fact that there are four of us here today talking about the crucifix, if we consider that to talk about the crucifix we have to invoke the question of subsidiarity, we cannot help but draw the conclusion that we are in a europe that is ashamed of the historical truth of its judeo-christian roots, of the historical truth of christianity which, as goethe said, is the common language of europe. within the european parliament there are 23 official languages, which testify to the fact that there is nothing that holds europe together except christianity. i would like to ask commissioner barrot why, after a popular referendum in switzerland voted no to minarets, the european commission, the european union, the united nations, the arab league and the organisation of the islamic conference all mobilized to condemn the result of that referendum - even though switzerland is not a member of the european union - and why are you now taking a neutral stance on a question which concerns our roots, our identity, our soul?
the commission's vice-president - madam president, the country i know best has been the scene of bitter clashes on these issues and i would like to express my simple but personal wish that the european parliament should remain in a line of tolerance and mutual respect. there are families who want to follow a christian tradition. there are families who may challenge this tradition. we are made, europe is made, of this religious, cultural diversity. i think you have to be very careful with a case like this. i would like to say this very simply, because i myself have suffered in the country i know best from the excesses of both sides. however, i am a lawyer and quite honestly i do not see how this debate can take place here, when it should first take place in the assembly of the council of europe and in our national parliaments. that is where i think this debate really needs to take place. and we are obliged - i am obliged - on behalf of the commission to say that, indeed, the commission is very attached to respect for the principle of freedom of religion and that it would obviously be obliged to react against any discrimination against persons belonging to a particular religion. the commission cannot, however, act outside the legal framework established by the treaties. and it is not in a position to intervene as guardian of the treaties on matters concerning a member state when they have no connection with european union law. i have to say it very simply. the commission can only note the different positions which have been expressed here, but it cannot, either, take a position on a matter which does not fall within the scope of european law. again, these questions are a matter for the internal legal order of the member states. that's what i can say when i'm practicing law, too. i believe, however, that this debate is useful and that it was of course interesting, although i would simply urge all the protagonists who took part in this debate to keep all the necessary measures and to allow the council of europe and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to have useful discussions on the interpretations that can be given to a european declaration of human rights. but, frankly, we cannot, as guardians of the treaties, intervene in a debate which essentially concerns the council of europe and the european court of human rights. i apologize that i cannot give a better answer tonight, but i must, in all honesty and in accordance with the law, give you that answer. i believe that we are facing problems which are being dealt with today in the union, in the area of the legal order of each member state.
in writing. the court's ruling is an expression of aggressive secularism and gives rights to those who want a public space in europe free of religion. they fail to realize that our continent cannot exist without christianity. christianity has shaped europe, its people, culture, art and thought in such a way that the continent would lose its identity if the traces of christianity were removed. this is not at all about questioning religious freedom. the separation of church and state is a great asset to our democracy, and i am in favor of making sure that both do their jobs with mutual respect. but that 's what respect is all about . the christian church cannot claim that all believe in it, but it can demand that all respect it.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the swedish presidency has not taken a position on the financial crisis that is as logical, clear and decisive as it would have been. why have you not had the courage to call the people responsible for the financial crisis by their first and last names, to point out in a clear and convincing way the measures to curb speculation and also to tell the european citizens that our banks and financial institutions still have many of these speculative financial products which pollute our market? why have you not given a clear signal of support to the real economy, which is represented above all by the small and mediumsized enterprises, the manufacturing sector, the healthy sector of our european economy, which, i repeat, needs and will always need to be given signs of encouragement and real support? perhaps the most important challenge facing the swedish presidency was the issue of freedom, security and justice, also in relation to the implementation of the stockholm programme. what is the conclusion to be drawn from this? i believe that this presidency has done little and very ineffectively on the subject of illegal immigration. it has not been active in combating illegal immigration, nor in integration projects, nor even on the refugee problem. europe has seemed to have a weak voice, not only in general on foreign policy - and i agree with those who have denounced it - but also on this specific issue. it has appeared, on a central issue such as this, to be of little authority, from whatever point of view one wishes to examine it, whether from the point of view of those who, like myself, are very concerned about illegal immigration, or from those who are more concerned about the implementation of integration policies. we are very hopeful that the new spanish presidency will put into practice what has already been anticipated by some authoritative statements, namely that europe must not think that immigration is only a problem of the countries bordering the mediterranean. it is a problem which obviously concerns the whole of europe, but there is one point on which, among other things, there was a clear request from the government of my country which was not heeded: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action against organized crime. these properties are all over europe: the mafia, the organised mafia, has invaded all of europe, infiltrating the real economy and above all the financial economy. we are still waiting for a clear signal to be given for the implementation of a european legal regime against a very powerful mafia crime in several countries - if not in all the countries of the european union - which has taken advantage of our freedoms by acting too freely, moving with complete ease between financial centres, tax havens, stock and real estate markets. it is precisely on this point that a much clearer word, a much more incisive activity on the part of the swedish presidency would have been necessary. we denounce it openly. and then there are the statements by certain members of this presidency on another important and symbolic issue, the swiss referendum on minarets. a "no" to the construction of minarets, which the swedish foreign ministry called "an expression of prejudice". he went further, saying that it was the decision of berne itself to put a question like this to the vote. so there is a question here that goes beyond the merits of the referendum, and that is the question of the use of the referendum. how can the european union's minions reproach a small democratic country that has been around since the middle ages? should we, the servants of a bureaucracy that is elected by no one, be the ones to teach the swiss about democracy? we are not going to deny them the right to put an important issue, on which they can have whatever opinions they want, to a referendum. the european union should learn from democratic switzerland how to deal with the most delicate problems, giving the floor to the people, to the people, to the people, not to the bureaucracies, lobbies and banks of this european superpower, which always decides on the heads of the citizens!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of points in the conclusions of the last european council which we should all agree on and which we could call encouraging for the near future. first, immigration: the number of people who have been granted asylum in the eu. the need to make access to the territory of the european union more efficient in ensuring the safety of its citizens has been highlighted. this requires an integration policy, that is to say, finding the right balance between the needs of the member states and the human drama, the productive potential of migrants. he also called for a europe of responsibility and solidarity in the field of immigration and asylum. in this respect i am encouraged by the council's emphasis on the urgency of combating illegal immigration from the border member states, especially the southern ones. this means sharing resources and problems, but too often this is overshadowed by selfishness and lack of courage. the second priority, at a time when we are still not seeing the light at the end of the tunnel of the economic crisis, is the relaunch of the lisbon strategy: we must return as soon as possible to economic and commercial competition with the emerging powers, and only a system of cutting-edge research and knowledge will enable us to take this vital step for us, but above all for the new generations. i am pleased that the new approach adopted by the council is aimed at strengthening the link between national measures and those of the european union and at strengthening national ownership through more active involvement of the social partners and regional and local authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures. i believe, however, that more needs to be done in this respect: the family, the individual, the intermediate group, must be at the heart of europe's economic recovery. only in the individual, in fact, only in men is there that original dynamism which can reactivate the many sectors of social life which are now bent to the pessimism which often comes from the institutions.
i must apologise to mr balčytis and mr luhan, because i cannot accept their request, as we have already had a very large number of speeches and we do not have enough time to give the floor to everyone, it will be for another occasion, i apologize again.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. the globalisation adjustment fund has become an increasingly important instrument for the european parliament because of the difficult phase of economic convergence which our continent is going through. this shows that in the face of the crisis the european parliament, through a cross-cutting synergy of political intentions, has been able to adopt political instruments which are at the service of the citizens whom we represent. i therefore voted in favour of this fund, which is a fundamental instrument for the vocational and social integration of workers who have lost their jobs.
the european parliament, through this debate, intends to contribute to the debate on europe's role in a region which is crucial for the security and stability of the entire planet. the new military strategy announced by president obama and, even more clearly, the subsequent declaration by the foreign ministers of the isaf countries linked the sending of new troops to the primary objective of protecting the population and strengthening the capabilities of the afghan security forces and institutions. it is a correct course correction which acknowledges the futility and even the counterproductive nature of a traditional military effort, all focused on the repression of the taliban guerrillas. but for this new course to be productive and to trigger a transition to a secure, prosperous and stable afghanistan and thus self-sufficient, it is quite clear that the military dimension of the international community's intervention must be accompanied by a growing commitment on the civilian and political fronts. on the one hand, economic development and the strengthening of institutions, governance and the rule of law must be promoted, and on the other hand, the process of internal reconciliation must be facilitated and the situation in pakistan stabilised. this is where the space and the role of the european union come in. europe has long been deeply involved in the region: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the european capacity to make a real impact in the region has so far been far below the human and economic resources involved. the european union must therefore strengthen and make more coherent and effective the commitment, i would say the leadership of europe, on the side of civil strategy and political commitment. the action plan is an important step forward in this respect and the socialist and democratic group supports it and calls for its practical implementation. at the same time, we wonder whether the objectives set out in the plan also require the identification of ad hoc instruments and do not call for a reflection on an extension of the objectives and a strengthening of the instruments of the eupol esdp mission. on all these fronts, the european parliament is ready to support the action of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we are here to deal with the eu plan of action for afghanistan and pakistan. the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament has given me the opportunity to be the rapporteur on a new strategy for afghanistan. we need a new strategy – or maybe we just need any strategy at all – on the civilian side because until now the eu intervention in that country has not had enough coherence and seems to have had a very limited impact. i am afraid, mrs ashton, that i cannot share your initial statement on afghanistan because it is too generic, too bureaucratic, too unfocused – like the current action plan. i believe parliament must contribute to making this strategy stronger and more coherent. i am putting together all the necessary bits of information. first of all, i have to say that it is turning out to be very difficult to get even the most basic data on how much was spent by the eu in afghanistan after the 2001 occupation, where the eu aid arrived and how much of it can be accounted for. we know that almost eur 1 billion is spent every year there, which is a big sum. the afghan gdp is just eur 6.9 billion. our civilian aid therefore amounts to more than 20 percent of the yearly afghan gdp, a figure that has the potential to reverse the destiny of the country if properly used. secondly, my attempt to draw a new strategy for afghanistan will start with an effort to identify what has been, and what should be, the eu interest in the area. i will focus part of my report on the elimination of the opium poppy through the alternative development strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the security situation in afghanistan has recently deteriorated substantially due to the lack of full territorial control. large areas of the country are governed by tribal rules and no longer by national rules, and a sense of insecurity is widespread even in the big cities, despite the continuous engagement and monitoring of isaf forces. given that the fight against terrorism is closely linked to the activities carried out on the ground, it is clear that the united states, allied countries and nato cannot withdraw. the continuation and success of afghanistan depends heavily on a political and military approach, shared at international level and geared towards a regional approach to the territory, both afghan and pakistani. the new eu action plan is therefore an important step in strengthening security and in the delicate process of capacity building for democratic institutions, human rights and socioeconomic development in the region.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to my colleague who spoke, i wanted to assert the right of any head of state to visit governments within europe and outside europe, provided that it is consistent with the council's wishes, so this prior censure of the italian president of the council is very disturbing to me. however, to come to the point, by joining the eastern partnership, belarus has shown that it is willing to share with europe a path of economic development and reform. the commission acknowledged some progress made by belarus, such as the release of political prisoners, the reform of the electoral code and the possibility for some opposition newspapers to circulate, albeit under government control. this does not mean full democracy, but it certainly means a change from the past. the european union therefore has the choice of encouraging reforms through dialogue within the eastern partnership and euronest, while maintaining a policy of monitoring progress and achievements. i therefore think it is appropriate to give mr vigenin a mandate to agree with minsk on adequate representation in the euronest assembly, not limited to civil society only, but including belarusian parliamentary representatives. this would allow dialogue with policy makers also on the subject of human rights and to establish a channel of communication with the government to support the reform process, removing any alibi for missing or disappointing answers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the concerns of many of my colleagues. i strongly believe that the economic crisis we are experiencing will not end with a return of gdp growth to barely positive rates as those forecast for 2010, but that it can only be considered effectively over when we have returned to pre-crisis employment levels. the most optimistic estimates pinpoint this time around 2010. in this context, an investment policy is needed and it is strategically crucial that objective 2 be maintained, or something like that, as it is an effective instrument to help our regions overcome the crisis. the maintenance of objective 2 is in the interest of italy and many other european countries because it meets an essential need: the development of lagging regions and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the more developed regions. in view of these considerations, mr commissioner, mr president, do you not think that your withdrawal is extremely damaging to the italian, european and mediterranean regions and to other countries as well?
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in securing the completion of the financing of the union's economic recovery plan by eur 1.98 billion, making it a key objective of the 2010 budget. i am sure that the new plan will give a new impetus to economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and the protection of jobs in europe, while at the same time demonstrating that the budget of the european union is an instrument designed to give priority to european citizens, capable of providing concrete answers in order to make a decisive contribution to overcoming the recent economic crisis that has hit our continent. it is now up to the commission to ensure that all projects to be financed under the recovery plan are fully compatible with existing european environmental legislation. the joint statement calling for the simplification and more targeted use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund to help alleviate the effects of the economic crisis is also to be welcomed. the allocation of 300 million to resolve the crisis in the milk sector is also of great importance. this represents an additional 20 million euro to the council's proposal, which we cannot but welcome.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has launched an interesting eastern partnership project which has been welcomed and encouraged by six countries: armenia, belarus, georgia, moldova, ukraine and azerbaijan. this operation is improving the relationship between the european union and these countries and can lead to democratic and economic development in the area, albeit to a different extent in relation to the history of each country. in the face of this clever political strategy, it seems inappropriate to have this urgent debate about two young bloggers who were sentenced for incidents for which there is still a trial in progress, while we ignore other truly tragic situations, such as the recent massacre of 57 people who gathered to support a presidential candidate in the philippines. all the groups in this house, except ours, support a resolution on azerbaijan which is harsh and at odds with the partnership initiatives we have undertaken, and i am convinced that the strong judgments contained in the resolution put to the vote today may not only lead to a tightening of the baku government's relations with europe, but also have a counterproductive effect on the case of these two young men, in the sense that this resolution could make any pardon more difficult. in this connection, i would like to recall the decision taken today in the plenary to withhold a resolution on the aminatou haidar case in order not to jeopardize the ongoing diplomatic negotiations. it also seems to me contradictory that two resolutions, one on belarus and the other on azerbaijan, of very different tone, should be put to the vote in the same session, when these two countries are members of the same eastern partnership.
