i would also like to highlight the excellent work of our rapporteur and his ability to find the right compromise. but like many of the speakers, i have some doubts. those doubts relate to the provision that the member states of the european union will have to prepare all documents relating to investment business as written in in a language custumary in the field of international finance, which means in english. i am in favour of allowing businesses to reduce costs and not be finely regulated, but the priority and competitive advantage should not be given to managers of one language funds, in this case english-speaking. nor should legal uncertainty be created. how will the consumer need to protect his rights if the document presupposes a different interpretation of the liability of the financial undertaking? i am in favour of a clear definition of the responsibilities of financial businesses and the competitive conditions under which investment businesses operate.
member of the commission. − so, three additional questions. on the structural funds and what we are already doing: in negotiations with parliament in agreeing the 2009 budget, we already agreed and have made a declaration that we will accelerate the absorption and we will make the decision-making process more flexible for member states, including on how to use structural funds. this is also included in our recovery plan. it is important, and we calculate that it will help to accelerate use of structural funds of about eur 6 billion in 2009 alone. it is our obligation to parliament and we also agreed it with the member states in council, who supported these efforts. therefore, two packages of changes in regulations have passed from the commission and i hope it is already somewhere in parliament, at least in the committee on regional policy and planning, and in council and we hope that it will be passed very fast for member states to use it. on food security and cap relations: it is very interesting to hear your question and i can imagine what questions i will receive from other members. it is a very sensible question on cap in general. we have received a lot of criticism in the consultation process on the quality of cap, not against the policy but against the quality and capability to react and help on time. the policy is quite expensive by its very nature and that is how the participants mainly perceived this policy. and of course you are absolutely right, it is our understanding that this policy, in the near future and medium term, will be changing to investing more in environmental and health aspects, including food security. that is how we probably will see the medium-term future. but, of course, not everything suited all participants. we tried to be as objective as possible. we published all consultation materials. it was discussed in the november conference chaired by president barroso and everything is published, including our research on think-tank inputs, all consultation materials and our summary. so it is public; it is available. it is not yet our opinion. we tried to be objective and not to affiliate ourselves with an opinion, but we wanted to see the public’s reaction. we wanted to give you an objective opinion on how we are seen from outside with our policies or budget, and for us to use it for our future preparation of the political decision. on the third question on priorities, you are absolutely right. everybody is discussing this. we know what we need to do. member states know, governments know, but do not always agree when it comes to money. negotiations on budget finalisation usually centre on juste retour negotiations. who returns the same? especially now during this downturn in economy – when we have such serious problems in energy and in the external world – especially now we need again to concentrate and not forget that the strategic goal, which we need to perform all together, commission and you, is to prepare the strategic paper on budgetary reform.
member of the commission. − the question was given to me with the main emphasis on the agricultural outcome of agricultural consultations, but more general elements have been included in the question so i would like to start with some general remarks. as regards the consultations which we launched, we have been very satisfied because it was the first time in european history that the debate took place so openly, with all those who were capable and willing participating in the process. we had a huge input from ngos, governments, think-tanks, civil society, and that was very useful to us and will be useful to us. it reflects, of course, a very wide range of opinions and perspectives that cannot be reduced to one or two particular messages, but the contribution largely endorsed the commission’s general approach on the budget reform aiming at a strategic vision to maximise the european value added from any euro spent in the european budget. they offer criteria to flesh out the notion and views on how to balance the stability and responsiveness of the european budget. many contributors agree that the budget has evolved significantly over time, but only few are fully satisfied with the current budget structure. the consultations convene a sense of priorities in terms of challenges that europe has to address, with climate change, global competitiveness at the top of the list. contributions also propose a range of possible reforms concerning specific spending policies, the financial system and the way the budget is being delivered. more detailed information, as i have already mentioned, is available on the commission websites. finally, on agriculture, the consultation shows a relative growth consensus on the need to further reform cap. some consider it best to continue reform along the same lines as the earlier reform health check, or mid-term review, others favour more radical changes. most contributors emphasise the necessity of turning cap into, or concentrating on, competitiveness of european agriculture, responsiveness to climate change, food safety and quality requirements, and other environmental objectives. opinions differ, however, on the nature and extent of the change that is needed. the commission’s expectations with regard to key spending areas, especially in agriculture, are subject to ongoing work based on consultation, technical assessment, scientific inputs and sectoral policy discussions. they will be part of the political response that will follow later this year. the commission will then prepare our strategic paper, and i very much hope that we will be able in cooperation with you to perform our duty together.
i would like to thank the honourable member for the precise and open questions, and to say that the debate on budgetary reform has been going on for some time, for a year and more. what impact has the financial crisis had on these discussions? i would also like to know whether the budget reform will look for ways to avoid financial crises like the one we are experiencing now in the future.
the czech republic takes over the presidency of the european union at a time when there is debate about how to restructure the economy and what the future model of the european union will be: more socially oriented or more liberal. sometimes it is even presented as a dispute between old and new europe, but i think the czechs are able to find a consensus, because there is really not much difference between the two concepts. their convergence is driven by globalisation and the emerging multicultural economic environment. the concept of a market economy is understood very differently by different people and this is a behavioural factor. the countries of the former soviet bloc are well aware that the existence of market institutions and laws does not mean that the market will function successfully. they need to be in line with people's mindsets and expectations. while sometimes the political interest is to highlight these differences between economic models, in the long term, political delays in reshaping economic policy in the light of the changing multilingual and multicultural economic environment help radical populist groups to come to power and contribute to long-term political instability and economic backwardness.
in writing. − freedom of movement is one of the fundamental freedoms of citizens in the community. i believe that all eu citizens have equal rights to participate in the political life of the european union (eu) and to express their political views and opinions freely. these freedoms have become even more important since the eu's enlargement to eastern european countries, as economic migration from the new member states to western europe has increased dramatically since the eastern european countries joined the eu. lithuania, for its part, leads europe in the number of people who have emigrated since joining the community. during my meeting with lithuanian emigrants in london, i learned that many of these people plan to stay in the uk for a long time, especially those who have started families there, send their children to school. this trend, i believe, is reflected in the statistics. the situation is similar in other eu countries to which lithuanians have emigrated. i think it is essential to ensure that these eu citizens have the right to vote in european parliament elections in the country in which they live. i would also like to stress that citizens' participation in eu affairs and in elections to the european parliament is not increasing, but on the contrary, the eu is becoming increasingly disconnected from its people. in this context, i believe that giving eu citizens the right to vote in european parliament elections in their country of residence would only strengthen people's trust in the eu institutions. for these reasons, i voted for the 45th amendment.
clearly, this gas supply crisis is a political problem, not a commercial dispute. both gazprom and naftogaz are doing a key job in this conflict, trying to prove to us all and to society that, in technical, technological and economic terms, transit is impossible. it's been going on for years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems to be nonexistent for our partners. and unfortunately, i see no sign of any willingness on the part of kiev or moscow to compromise. i think they are more interested in buying time in these negotiations and, in solving the political problem, i see only political means until the technical transit issues are resolved. i believe that we should seek political agreements and political guarantees between the european union, russia and ukraine before we achieve our objectives in the medium or long term. and one more thing about energy solidarity. the bulgarian and slovak prime ministers are on their way to moscow and kiev. the energy solidarity week should not end and in order to bring the negotiations back to a bilateral format, energy solidarity would, i think, be for bulgaria and slovakia to resume the operation of their nuclear power stations in this situation. that would be a real energy solidarity.
on behalf of the pse group the higher the fence, the better the neighbor - an old english saying. today, when it comes to neighboring countries, it is better to have a low border or no border at all. at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries, belarus became a kind of european patient due to the growing authoritarian tendencies. the country has been sliding into self-isolation and isolation, with ever-higher fences being erected around it. a country at the centre of europe has lost its seat in the council of europe because of human rights abuses. the past year has given hope that the eu-belarus relationship can change, that the barriers can be lowered. the small steps taken by minsk in the right direction on political prisoners, on the registration of political parties and newspapers were mentioned, as was the forthcoming opening of the european union representation. i am very pleased with the optimism of both the committee and the minister and i think that the tyre is getting lighter, but there are still a lot of clouds. here, as my colleague mr protasiewicz has already mentioned, freedom of the media and the creation of real conditions for political parties are both important, and the country as a whole is on the eve of major economic and social changes. reforms should be forward-looking and should make life easier for ordinary people. i think the european union should also take the path of mutual understanding. first, to remove, or at least to reduce, the financial barriers to visa applications that so hinder people's communication. belarus has decided to build a new nuclear power plant, possibly just outside the lithuanian capital, vilnius. several such plants are planned in the region - in lithuania, estonia and poland. it is necessary for all these countries, and others, to talk to each other, to consult each other regularly, to avoid misunderstandings, to avoid damage to the environment, to avoid disregard for the interests of other countries. brussels should closely monitor how minsk is implementing the recommendations of the atena, the nuclear safety conventions, and the interests of the countries of the european union. i think that belarus will not make real progress unless the wall between the official institutions and the people is torn down. the government should be interested in talking and consulting with the opposition, ngos, trade unions, youth organisations. in a few months' time, the european parliament will make recommendations on whether to continue with this policy of breaking down fences or to build even higher. if this opportunity is not taken, people on both sides will be disappointed. the ball, as they say, is on minsk's side.
i voted for the resolution on the situation in the gaza strip because many of the issues that are important to the people of lithuania, who have delegated me to this parliament, are included in this resolution. the most important thing is to cease fire immediately and permanently. the statistics broadcast yesterday by the world news agencies are frightening over 1000 dead, hundreds injured, wounded, crying children. this can't go on. as a member of the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights, i am particularly concerned about the human rights violations and the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip. humanitarian aid must not be hindered, it must reach those who need it most, the civilian population. i welcome this resolution of the european parliament, which was very much needed. the european parliament is never silent and cannot be silent when people are dying.
i voted in favour of our resolution on the european union strategy for belarus. i think it's a great reflection of the changes that have taken place in this country over the last six months, and we need to take stock of them. of course, the first crop does not mean that spring has come, but belarus is a large and important country in the european union's neighbourhood, and we are certainly pleased with all the positive changes. the release of political prisoners, the lifting of some restrictions on press freedom, and dialogue with the european union on energy, the environment and other issues are positive developments. today i would like to express my conviction that the time has come for a european parliament delegation to visit belarus and this resolution makes a clear statement on this important issue. i hope that the time is fast approaching when belarus will be able to benefit from the opportunities offered by the european neighbourhood policy. let us not stop halfway - this applies to belarus and the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, veronique mathieu, on the financial control of the eu budget for afghanistan and the ep resolution on this subject. it is a comprehensive, well-written document, which has been the subject of opinions from as many as three ep committees, including the committee on budgets, for which i was responsible. i want to highlight again the key issues that are at the heart of the outcome of our assistance to afghanistan. this includes, in particular, the coordination of financial support, not only between the eu member states and the european commission, but also between the member states themselves, as well as with other donors. and secondly, i want to stress the importance of priorities. i believe that infrastructure development, support for alternative livelihoods, which would help reduce poverty and transition from opium production to other alternative activities, finally health, education institutions should be on the eu's list of priorities.
today we are discussing the coup d'état in guinea, which is one of the most corrupt countries in africa. in addition, guinea's social and economic situation is unenviable, with very difficult living conditions, a lack of basic foodstuffs, and gross violations of human rights, all of which create an environment conducive to the illegal seizure of power. on the other hand, we are well aware that the military takeover of power in guinea is a tradition. parliamentary elections were not held until two years after the end of the term of office of the national assembly. all of this is of course a matter of concern to the international community. in any country, such a situation sooner or later results in riots, instability, and often bloodshed. i therefore fully support the resolution we are discussing, the calls for parliamentary and presidential elections to be held in accordance with international standards and with the support of the african union and the economic community of west african states. moreover, freedom of the press, of speech, of assembly must be guaranteed before the elections, otherwise the elections will become an electoral farce.
why are we concerned about press freedom in kenya, why is the european parliament urgently considering this as a human rights violation? first, because freedom of expression is a fundamental human right, as stated in article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights, to which kenya is a signatory, it is obliged, like other signatories, to respect not only the spirit but also the letter of the declaration. the demonstrations that followed the presidential election in kenya just a year ago, which then escalated into riots and ethnic conflict, killing over 1,000 people and leaving tens of thousands homeless, are the most important argument against allowing a repeat of such events. the kenyan government and the president should therefore act together and honour their own commitments to respect freedom of the press, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly, and - which is particularly important - to fight impunity, to hold accountable those responsible for the riots a year ago.
recently, european leaders have expressed disappointment with the leaders of ukraine and georgia. there was a question of whether they could democratize their countries and bring them into nato and the european union. such thoughts and speeches are a great support for russian politicians and special services. even with our naked eyes we see the russian provocations aimed at undermining yushchenko, saakashvili and their pro-western policies. there are also unseen provocations. the best way to learn how they were prepared is to consult the kgb archives. only the naive of today's european politicians can believe that russia is no longer engaged in such blackmail and provocation today, even though it is led by a kgb officer named putin. the latest information provocation is that georgia has kidnapped a russian soldier. it fed europe for a week. russia later admitted that its soldiers had deserted from duty themselves, but the black propaganda work had already been done. the impression that russia is great at playing with tanks, gas pipelines, information and disinformation. but it is the naivety of european politicians that allows it to play such games.
the lithuanian textile and clothing sector could lose up to 50 percent of its jobs this year. almost 20 000 workers could lose their jobs. this would not only be a consequence of the economic and financial crisis. the textile industry must cope with unequal conditions of competition, apply higher standards of production, working conditions, sanitation and ecology. it is very difficult to compete with the subsidised chinese production due to the imbalanced exchange rate, the bank lending policy, the absence of depreciation deductions, the tax policy. in addition, china and other countries are increasing barriers to eu products entering their markets. how does the commission assess a situation where the price of a chinese product is lower than the raw material used to produce it? what action does the commission intend to take to restore a level playing field? furthermore, would you please provide specific information on how the commission's helpdesk for small and medium-sized enterprises in the textile industry helps to initiate investigations into the application of market protection measures in cases of clear unfair competition? as you know, linen textile producers have been trying for two years to initiate anti-dumping proceedings against linen fabrics originating in china, but have so far been unable to do so because the commission is not granting any aid. what does the commission propose for textile producers?
the main lesson of the gas crisis is the high vulnerability of the european energy system and the very high risk of supplying resources. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the measures in force in ukraine. energy issues are not only bilaterally between russia and ukraine, but also between ukraine and the european union and between the european union and russia, and there is no common eu-ukraine-russia energy framework. there are no safeguards or guarantees, and they have not yet been developed. i would like to point out that the dependence on gas supply and on gas consumption is increasing dramatically and will increase especially with the closure of the power plants in lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia. this indicates that the risk remains and may be increasing. we have a very clear long-term energy strategy for the whole of the european union. we're having a very heated discussion about it. these are long-term measures. in my view, the weakest link is energy policy in the short and medium term. she failed the reality test, and the gas crisis showed it. i would invite the commission to examine such a scenario, which unfortunately has not been considered for various other legal and political reasons. what would be the costs, benefits and consequences of temporarily extending the operation of the nuclear power plants in bulgaria, slovakia and lithuania, which would substantially enhance the energy security of those countries, regions and europe as a whole in that situation? in addition, in the context of a prolonged and uncertain economic crisis, it would allow for a more efficient allocation of resources and would considerably reduce the burden of the crisis on our citizens and businesses.
although we started talking about the need for a common energy policy as early as 2006, it is the responsibility of each eu country to ensure a secure energy supply. but the eu's very survival depends on the solidarity of its member states. the eu must adopt effective legislation to help overcome or prevent energy supply crises without delay. the commission proposes an eu action plan on energy security and solidarity, with infrastructure development and diversification of energy sources as key areas. i am pleased that the infrastructure projects that are to become the eu's energy security priorities include a plan to connect the countries around the baltic sea, which will make it possible to eliminate the eu's hitherto insecure energy islands. i ask the commission for all possible support for the construction of the lithuanian-swedish electricity interconnector and the lithuanian-polish electric bridge. unfortunately, this also requires political will. and returning to the european union's founding principle of solidarity and its application in the energy field, there are many doubts about the future of this principle. we are considering the third energy package for the creation of the eu internal market for electricity and gas with the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. at the same time, germany and russia are establishing a german-russian energy agency. how does this relate to solidarity between eu member states, a common energy policy, energy security?
in writing. energy is the greatest challenge of our time. the gas crisis that hit the eu in january is not the first in the eu's history. there are countries in europe that are 100% dependent on russian gas, including lithuania, which closed its nuclear power plant in december 2009. the eu must take additional steps to prevent a repeat of the crisis. the missing energy links need to be reconstructed, as well as the need to strengthen the gas security directive and to establish an eu coordination mechanism to respond to similar crises. it is necessary that member states that are most dependent on energy resources have sufficient energy resources. the crisis in russia and ukraine is not only a crisis of mutual trust but also a geopolitical crisis. the responsibility for the non-receipt of gas by the member states is shared by both parties. europe, in turn, needs to diversify its energy sources and improve security of supply. europe must act decisively, because the solution to this energy crisis with russian gas supplies will be temporary.
i agree with the second strategic energy policy review, but i would also like to mention some aspects of the gas crisis. this year's gas crisis between ukraine and russia, unfortunately not the first, has affected 15 countries in central europe and the balkans. i have not seen the numbers of the economic losses suffered by the countries affected, but i want to emphasize the moral and value losses. how should eu citizens have felt when the conflict between ukraine and russia - clearly political - was wrecking the eu's economy, energy security, political stability, and eu states could do nothing? i am referring to the intention of slovakia and bulgaria to resume the operation of their closed safe nuclear power stations, which many members of parliament support. when considering any eu legislation, including energy, we emphasise that the consumer, and in general the individual, is the most important. when will we turn to the human being, the citizen of the european union?
in writing. − renewal of the agreement for a further five years would benefit both parties by extending the cooperation between russia and the european community in the field of science and technology. since the content of the renewed agreement will be identical to that of the agreement which expires on 20 february 2009, it would be pointless to negotiate the renewal of this agreement in the normal way. in view of the mutually beneficial advantages of a rapid renewal of the agreement, a single-step procedure (one procedure and one act relating to the signature and conclusion of the agreement) is proposed. the two parties to the agreement aim to ensure continuous cooperation (in particular in the activities in which third parties are necessarily involved, as provided for in the cooperation agreement). i am in full support of this proposal.
in writing. - we do not have a single european energy policy. every country is defending its own interests. the eu has allocated an additional €5 billion for electricity and broadband. this is a historic event, as for the first time in the eu's history, the commission has revised the budget and proposed such a project. this is particularly important for lithuania, which has no electricity connection to sweden or poland and is an energy island. energy interconnections are low-cost investments and such vital projects should be funded by eu funds. today, lithuania buys gas for about $500, while other eu countries farther away from russia pay less. we would gain a lot by being in solidarity and speaking with one voice on prices with gazprom.
in writing. − the eu's energy security guarantor is the eu's single energy market, which must include all the member states of the community, in particular the baltic region. the dependence of the countries of the region on russia as the sole supplier of energy resources does not guarantee energy security not only for them but also for the community as a whole. it is therefore necessary to recognise the baltic states' connection to eu networks as priority and sufficiently funded eu projects. diversification of energy sources and suppliers cannot remain a matter for the member states alone; it must be addressed at eu level. i therefore particularly support the rapporteur's call on the commission to 'prepare a european strategic plan for multiannual investments to meet future electricity generation needs and specific guidelines for investment in nuclear energy'. as the financial crisis has particularly damaged the construction sector, including lithuania, the rapporteur's call for greater efforts to address the problem of the final disposal of all types of radioactive waste, and in particular of highly radioactive waste, is becoming particularly relevant with the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant. partnership and cooperation agreements (in particular with russia) must be a means of safeguarding the interests of all eu member states, and eu member states must respect the principles of solidarity and unity in their negotiations with energy suppliers from third countries. only a united europe is strong and competitive in an age of rapid globalisation.
in writing. − employment of women with dependent children in the eu is only 62.4%, compared to 91.4% for men. in addition, 76.5% of parttime workers are women. inadequate services, low wages, late entry into the labour market, long-term contracts and insufficient incentives for young couples are among the reasons why young people choose to start a family and have children later. i urge eu countries to make maternity leave payable not only by employers but also by society, to give more opportunities for parents to work freelance and to allow childcare institutions to have flexible working hours so that both women and men can better balance work and family life.
in writing. − in my view, all eu countries should criminalise sexual relations with minors under 18 years of age by using force, violence or threats. criminal liability shall also apply to the manifest abuse of the trust, authority or influence of a child, including within the family, and to the abuse of a vulnerable child, in particular a mentally or physically disabled child. eu countries should require internet service providers to block access to child sex sites and banks and other credit card companies to block payments on child pornography sites.
vice-president of the commission. − first, the turkish lira is very well known to me. this is not a question for the european central bank, but i have myself, during a visit to turkey, addressed this issue with members of the turkish government, and they promised to gradually phase out this coin and change it so it will not be so similar to european coins. so this has been promised at least. that was already a couple of years ago and this has not been raised any more, so probably this process is ongoing. regarding cooperation, in early 2009 there was a big operation against counterfeiters together with the italian authorities, so cooperation is working. about court sentences, this is of course a matter for national judiciaries and it is more of a question for my colleague mr barrot, but i have never heard of the european union launching any initiative to harmonise these sentences. however, i know from the country i know best, and from other countries, that counterfeiting is a severe crime everywhere. of course, as i said, there is quite a lot of cooperation among the law-enforcement agencies in fighting the people who are involved in these activities, but, as far as i know, there is no initiative to harmonise such legislation all over europe.
vice-president of the commission. − i could of course speak for at least one hour on these issues. our doings in this area are reflected in the ongoing discharge process and in many communications from the commission, in many discharge resolutions and in many speeches in the budgetary control committee. so, firstly, i can assure you that we are dealing very seriously with these issues and the situation is improving. the system is as follows. the budgetary authority, which means parliament, authorises the commission to use money and which money can be used to implement community policies. there is a special spending programme, which has its own legal basis. parliament also designs this legal basis, so the rules are decided by the budgetary authority relating to the budget. next comes to the implementation, where there are different layers. one of these is, of course, the commission, which is the main actor responsible for implementing the budget. our activities in improving financial governance are reflected in our annual activity reports, and the court of auditors has evaluated that they are getting better and better and more adequately reflect the situation. this is one internal part. another is the control and auditing systems, which have also been strengthened in recent years, for instance in internal policies in the research family, where we have increased the control and auditing staff. what is also important in this particular part is that there is shared management. much also depends on the contribution of, and efforts made by, member states to cut back their errors and to avoid the misuse of money. there is also improvement in this area. a completely new instrument has been introduced – the so-called annual summary of all reports of paying agencies. these were carefully analysed for the first time last year and this is now being done again. so the situation is improving. the court of auditors’ report, which also has been greatly changed from the beginning of our period, now quantifies the changes. this quantification of changes also shows that there has been an improvement. so european money is quite rigidly managed – even too rigidly in some areas. we can show what has been done. but we can also clearly say that this is far from perfect. this is a huge machine which must work smoothly. according to the court of auditors’ estimations, in most areas 98% of all transactions are carried out without errors. in the structural funds this is almost 90%, so the vast majority of transactions will not include errors, and any errors will be corrected. the number of correction decisions relating to the structural funds has increased tremendously during this period. i can, of course, provide you with a lot of numbers if needed. these are some indications, but of course it is clear that this does not cover the whole of the answer to the simple question: ‘how do you manage the european budget?’
vice-president of the commission. − of course it must be improved, but you must also understand that we are talking about errors. for instance, the 12% figure for last year is based on samples taken by the court of auditors, using absolutely correct methodology. these samples amount to eur 63 million. all these samples have been corrected, recovered and the necessary documents provided. therefore, the 12% issue from 2006 is resolved. errors are not a waste of money: errors are errors which are corrected. all the figures are available, from the committee on budgetary control, for what is done to recover wrongly paid money. for instance, this year the regional development fund made decisions for the recovery of almost eur 2.3 billion from the member states – provided there are no other corrections. but this is a process where last year we were much tougher than previously; still, you must understand that we are talking about errors. meanwhile the court of auditors has submitted this discharge, this report. based on this report they have submitted all of two cases to olaf for further investigation – one case is closed and the other is under investigation. these are the possible fraud cases. i must say that this situation is not so bad, though we must of course ensure that the money is properly used everywhere.
commissioner, as a result of the financial crisis, as a sign of solidarity, salaries for ministers, mps and also for meps and other officials have been cut by 10%, 15% or 20% in some eu countries. would you support this idea? i know it is complicated to implement, but at least to theoretically implement such an idea in the european commission?
in normal circumstances, it would be possible to propose that permanent residents could participate in local elections, but we know very well that most of today's non-citizens in latvia were born in this country in circumstances that cannot be described as normal. this is a direct result of the soviet occupation of latvia. and the result of a process of russification that has been going on for five decades in violation of international law. we all have the right to choose to be citizens, to be loyal to our country, right? but every choice has its consequences, and the only ones to blame for that are you, not the state that gave you the freedom to choose.
i congratulate the rapporteur and all those who share her views on the challenge of climate change. the people of lithuania and the other baltic states are simply thirsty for a european electricity grid. if we don't do it in a few years, the talk of energy security will be a talk of the town. the call for an increase in the structural funds used for heating apartment blocks is very important. miracles are rare. however, the miracle of the renewal of the ignalina nuclear power plant, which is still expected in lithuania, would reduce pollution and allow the annual savings of 4-5 percent of gdp, which are so necessary in a country that has been particularly affected and damaged by the economic crisis. in the face of the crisis, more and more eu citizens are thinking about survival rather than climate change, but if we can turn from a wasteful lifestyle to a saving one, we will not only save the environment and a warmer planet, but also replenish our pockets. by cutting back on resources in the home, by avoiding short car trips, you can save up to eur 1000 a year.
the transport sector, which currently emits almost a third of all co2 emissions in the eu, is a key player in the fight against climate change. the transport sector must reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. to achieve these objectives, a package of sustainable transport policy measures, including green innovations, co2 taxation, changes in driving and car use patterns and other measures, is necessary. i would like to point out that in some member states, the financial crisis and the economic downturn, with the increase in vat, have now made it cheaper for people to travel by car because of the high costs of public transport. so i would like to encourage governments to introduce tax incentives and encourage people to use public transport. it is also important to promote the use of trains by investing in the development of railway infrastructure. let me remind you that the average train emits three times less co2 per kilometre than a car and eight times less than an airplane.
in writing. − europe needs a single strategic energy policy to ensure resource efficiency and to minimise climate impacts. the eu and the member states must ensure the development of europe's energy infrastructure, which is essential to diversify the eu's energy sources and reduce its dependence on fossil fuels. today, heating buildings is the largest energy user and largest emitter of co2 in the eu - about 40% of total co2 emissions. this is where energy saving is most possible. i support the rapporteur's proposal to organise a national information campaign for citizens on energy efficiency, in which home and apartment owners are given thermal imaging of their property and information on its energy efficiency and recommendations on the possible financing of modernisation works through microcredit. low energy efficiency in buildings is a major problem in post-soviet buildings and many owners are not aware of how and what measures can be taken to save energy. i think it is necessary to increase support from the structural funds for housing renovation to 15% (currently 3%).
in writing. - i warmly welcome and support the decision of us president barack obama to begin the closure of the guantanamo bay detention centre. this is a major step in the beginning of a new u.s. policy. i am sure that all eu member states will support this us policy and respond to president obama's request to cooperate or help with the release of prisoners if he so requests. however, i voted against the article in the resolution calling on the member states to 'be ready to accept guantanamo prisoners' because i believe that this is a matter for each country in the community to decide for itself. i have no doubt that each of them will respond positively and provide support to the us administration in a given case. but it will be their own choice and goodwill and respect for humanitarian and international law.
president-in-office of the council. − i fully share the view that energy efficiency is an important instrument for handling both environmental concerns and energy security needs. in fact, we have just been discussing this at home – now i will just step out of my presidency role – and in prague we consider two measures to be really important. the others are also important, but either in the long term or without such a huge impact. one is housing and energy efficiency. the second one is nuclear energy, but i know this is a sensitive issue for some member states. those are the most important in combating climate change and dealing with energy security. therefore, finding the proper instruments to promote energy efficiency and housing is the challenge of our time. i would like to deal with the questions on financing. the european regional development fund, as was proposed by the commission, could be used to find resources for investment in housing and energy efficiency, so this is one instrument which will be available now, also within the framework of the recovery plan. another possibility for countries like romania – i know this from my own country – is just to use the emissions trading scheme, which is within the current kyoto, so it is possible to use the income from that. i think we have the instruments. with regard to this new directive, we will consider the debate about the scope to be the most important. certainly, we in the czech presidency, in cooperation with the upcoming swedish presidency – for them it is a priority – will try to do our best and not to waste too much time.
president-in-office of the council. − i want to thank mr burke for his question concerning the southern corridor plans and the meetings during the upcoming czech presidency. we will ensure that these are the three priorities – energy, external relations and the economy – which are fully integrated and interconnected and focus on the concrete initiative; this is one of them. it will in particular concentrate on the objective of ensuring reliable supplies of energy through the development of a range of energy relationships with third countries and regions and by working towards greater diversification of energy resources, as well as the transit routes. the presidency intends to take this work forward on the basis of the elements contained in the commission communication on the second strategic energy review. the council is expected to adopt a conclusion on this communication in february and energy security will be of particular focus in the spring 2009 european council. as part of its work, a large number of meetings with third countries or third-country organisations are planned. these meetings will deal either exclusively with energy-related themes or will cover energy among the other issues. as regards the specific discussion on energy strategic corridors to which the honourable member refers, the presidency is organising the following meetings. the most important are, first, the international investment conference on the ukrainian gas transit network, which will take place in brussels on 23 march 2009. second, the so-called southern corridor summit meeting, which we plan to organise together with the eastern partnership event; that will take place in prague in early may. the aim of that meeting is to launch a mutually beneficial dialogue between the eu and both the transit and producing countries from the caspian region. this should lead to a greater diversification of energy supply routes, suppliers and sources, and will thus strengthen the energy security of the eu. one of the specific purposes is to promote the nabucco project. the issue of the strategic energy corridor is also likely to be addressed during the meeting of the eu-russia permanent partnership council on energy, which will also be organised under the czech presidency, probably in may, just to create a run-up to the summit meeting between the eu and russia, which we are planning for 22 may 2009. so the importance of the strategic energy corridors referred to by the honourable members has been clearly underlined by the ukrainian-russian gas dispute in early january. the council, at its extraordinary session of 12 january 2009, which was devoted to this subject, adopted conclusions outlining a number of measures to be taken in the short, medium and long term. so the presidency will work to ensure that appropriate and concrete follow-up is given to these measures as a part of the high priority it attaches to the issue of energy security.
thank you for your explanation of a very important subject. i would like to ask how the czech republic, the country holding the presidency, views the nordstream project, which has both positive and negative aspects, and we know that there are some doubts about its ecological consequences. so, how would you assess this project as you begin your presidency? thank you. thank you.
there are two sides to this tragic incident on the burma-thailand border. it is regrettable that the thai authorities have taken unjustified action, especially since thailand is known as a country that is committed to human rights and that accepts a large number of refugees. we will hope that the prime minister's statement that these events will be investigated, that those who have mistreated the refugees from burma who arrived on boats will be punished, that those promises will be fulfilled. on the other hand, it is not the first time that we have spoken in this chamber about the brazen and unacceptable behaviour of the burmese regime. i think the european union should take stronger action and we are obviously expecting action from the big powers, not just words. china in particular needs to put pressure on burma to respect the rights of the opposition and minorities.
in january this year, the european commission presented a package of additional proposals for the financing of energy and broadband projects under the european economic recovery plan. the proposed allocation of eur 5 billion for these projects is part of the eur 3,5 billion from the 2008 agricultural budget. but six states blocked the commission's proposal last week. it seems that the same countries that are shaping the current financial perspective have called for a reduction in contributions to the eu budget to 1% of gnp. we are returning to the nationalism and protectionism that have been systematically abandoned for 50 years since the community was founded. ladies and gentlemen, only national solidarity can help us to meet the challenges of the financial and economic crisis and secure the future of the eu.
member of the commission. − mr president, two-and-a-half years ago parliament and the council adopted the commission proposal for a simplification of the external financial instruments. we streamlined many different instruments, one of which was the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi). this is a highly important instrument because it makes our external cooperation stronger, more ‘policy driven’, and better targets our funding in support of key sectors. i was very pleased to read mr szymański’s comments and to see that he considers that the enpi regulation is adequate and valid for the purpose of cooperation with our neighbouring countries. the preliminary findings of our review point exactly in the same direction. the enpi country programmes underpin the implementation of enpi action plans and reflect the ambition of the eu and the partner countries. in a way they have been transmission belts for the political and economic reforms that we seek to encourage through the enpi. moreover, instruments such as twinning and taiex, provide support for institution-building, legislative approximation and regulatory alignment. sector and budget support operations are used to promote the agreed reform agenda. the different enpi regional approaches and dimensions are supported through specific regional programmes. a multi-country programme was created, particularly to implement highly visible initiatives common to all neighbouring countries such as tempus, erasmus mundus or ciudad. the innovative cross-border cooperation component has been successfully launched. all of this clearly shows that the 2006 agreement on the enpi regulation gave us a tool which allows us to deliver and produce tangible results. there is always room for improvement and i am always grateful for suggestions. let me also say that the report, firstly, underlines the need to further develop consultations with civil society and local authorities, which is what we are already doing. secondly, i have noted your call for even more ambitious actions in the fields of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. as you know, these topics are already at the forefront of our cooperation with partner countries, and political reforms and good governance are at the very heart of the enp. we have also targeted projects to strengthen the judiciary. however, let us be honest. first, because our partners face important structural challenges, we cannot expect things to change overnight and, as lord patten once said: ‘democracy is not instant coffee’. i think that is really true. thirdly, i see that the report calls for more resources. clearly, more resources improve our leverage – that is true. in the first two years we had to come back to the budgetary authority several times, asking for sufficient supplementary funds, for instance for palestine and georgia. therefore, we have proposed to draw on fresh funds for an ambitious eastern partnership, which we will soon be discussing in parliament. finally, let me say that i am very pleased to see that the report welcomes the recent commission proposal on the eastern partnership, which we consider has a very important multilateral dimension, together with the union for the mediterranean and the black sea. i hope that i will continue to have your support and understanding in the future.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. − the ecsc, created after the 2004 enlargement of the eu, covers 17 countries, 15 of which are classified as developing countries. the measure covers the eu's new eastern neighbours armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, ukraine, moldova and belarus. the security of our eastern neighbours, in particular the energy security of ukraine and belarus, is also the security of the eu. this was demonstrated by the ukrainian-russian new year's gas crisis, which has become a tradition. the military conflict in georgia this summer has made us all reflect on the threats to the security and independence of the eu countries. in this context, i have already proposed, and i am now proposing, with the participation of the european parliament and on the basis of the principles of the euromed and eurolat assemblies, the creation of an eastern neighbourhood assembly euroeast to implement the esdp in eastern european countries. i am glad that this has been acknowledged in the report. euroeast would enable the european parliament to give equal attention to all neighbouring and developing countries.
mr president, in 2008, several new regional initiatives were launched under the umbrella of the european neighbourhood policy. although the financial instrument was designed in 2006, it proved a sufficiently effective tool as it was oriented towards the future. the eu has decided to strengthen multilateral and regional cooperation with and between its neighbouring countries. the instrument already allows the eu to receive co-funding from other international organisations and to cooperate with other multilateral organisations in its neighbourhood. let us actively use these opportunities. my second point concerns the distribution of financial allocations between our neighbours on the south and eastern shores of the mediterranean and our neighbours to the east. ultimately, it amounts to a question of credibility of eu policy. therefore, the eu needs to stick to its commitments and maintain the geographical distribution of financial allocations, as laid down in the financial perspective for the years 2007-2013. but there is another important allocation gap between the neighbours. i am speaking about the gap of allocations spent on programmes in the future democracies relating to the rule of law and human rights. between 2007 and 2010, 21% of the total funding for the eastern neighbours is spent on allocations to support democratic development, but for the southern neighbours this amounts to only 5%. i ask the commission to take this concern into consideration.
in writing. it is clear that oil prices are falling, but they will rise again once the current economic crisis is over; i therefore recall the importance of further diversifying the eu's energy sources and supply chains in order to mitigate the negative effects of a possible future oil crisis. the dependence of eu member states, and in particular the eu's 'energy islands', on imports of energy resources and the infrastructure they have are varied. can we talk about a single energy market when, for example, the baltic states, including lithuania, are energy islands? europe's inability to speak with one voice with the main energy suppliers is also a major problem. on paper we are creating an ambitious european energy policy, but in practice a bilateral energy policy remains dominant. honey, politicizing the energy sector is not conducive to stability. we should and could try to change this situation through diversification and solidarity. the missing energy links need to be created, and an eu coordination mechanism needs to be established to respond to similar crises. it is necessary that member states which are most dependent on energy resources have sufficient reserves of those resources. not only short-term measures for the security of energy supply have to be taken into account, but also the long-term perspective. europe, in turn, needs to diversify its energy sources and improve security of supply.
the regulation of vat benefits has long been an area requiring a systematic approach. if the vat credit is allowed, all parties should be entitled to it, not just those who have exercised that right, but that is a matter for the future. the economic crisis now requires urgent solutions. the commission proposal covers responsive services and on-the-spot services to private end-users, including restaurant services, which do not pose a problem for the proper functioning of the internal market. however, it is questionable whether the selective restaurant services are of only local importance, whether they will not promote different competitive conditions in the border regions and whether they will not affect tourism. my country, lithuania, has abolished vat relief in order to combat the economic crisis. the government relied on the state control assessment that the producers benefit most from the vat reduction, but who benefits from the vat increase? the price increase disproportionate to the increase in vat shows a clear beneficiary. the same idea was expressed in the european parliament during the debate on the reduction of excise duty on fuel. the european commission representatives argued that this would not reduce fuel prices. it is gratifying that the commission proposal under consideration is based on a different assessment of the copenhagen economics. perhaps the commission could explain to everyone the concept of vat, its effects on businesses and consumers, and indicate what measures exist, and in general whether they exist, to protect the consumer from the producer, since such cases are not unique to one country. i agree that vat relief must be applied for economic and social reasons, to enable every citizen to buy the most essential goods and services and to strengthen and maintain local services.
i would like to talk about vat from two perspectives: social justice and competitiveness. in terms of social justice, value added tax is regressive, meaning that it is more burdensome for people with lower incomes, and therefore we have to increase social subsidies afterwards. maybe we should do the opposite. in terms of competitiveness, europe is a service economy. we can compete in the world for our services by attracting tourists, and it is of course important that these services are cheap. compared to the us, our sales tax (or value added tax) is much higher. perhaps this perspective should be assessed in the context of a more coordinated tax policy, although of course this is entirely a matter for the member states.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i have two oral amendments to this paragraph. the first is that the words ‘human rights and the rule of law’ be put in the first place in the points of concern and not the last. please support this more european position. the second oral amendment concerns the second part of the paragraph, on russia as a democracy in an undefined future. as there are very sovereign concepts of what democracy means, it would be better to add something. therefore, my oral amendment is to insert the following after the word ‘democracy’: ‘and refuses military threats as a means of political pressure on its neighbours’. as we cannot support such policies, please support this amendment.
in writing. − the universality of the current financial crisis will affect member states regardless of their economic structure, and the rapporteur therefore considers that the right of workers to information and consultation needs to be assessed differently. contrary to what is commonly believed, this right is not a procedure that prevents an undertaking from responding to changes. the parties involved, employers, employees and public authorities need to understand that this procedure will help them to best anticipate the economic and social consequences of changes in the company's environment. for this reason, this basic procedure of the european social model must be known and recognised by all european employers and employees. any undertaking operating in the territory of the european union faced with such a change in its economic environment should have the same means of foresight and preparedness as its competitors in the european union, which would also encourage fair competition between undertakings under the rules of the internal market.
in writing. − the social economy contributes to the four main objectives of eu employment policy: to improve people's access to employment; to promote entrepreneurship, particularly through job creation on the ground; to improve the adaptability of enterprises and their employees, particularly through the modernisation of work organisation; and to strengthen equal opportunities policies, in particular through public policy measures to promote the reconciliation of work and family life. social economy enterprises can bring significant additional benefits to society, i.e. they can contribute to the economic development of european society by enhancing the democratic nature of business through the participation of members and employees, and by applying the principles of corporate social responsibility and service delivery on the ground. it is important to link the social economy to the objectives of social cohesion and active citizenship, taking into account the local nature of the social economy and its role in promoting active participation. these activities generally help to strengthen social links, which are particularly important in a world of increasing social isolation and exclusion.
in writing. − energy efficiency should be one of the main pillars of the eu's energy policy. by using energy more efficiently in europe, we would ensure a more secure supply. in the absence of any substantive measures, europe's dependence on imported energy (currently 50% imported) could reach 70% in the next 20 to 30 years, with some member states becoming even more dependent. a more efficient use of energy would reduce environmental pollution. more efficient energy use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure that the eu's ambitious climate plans are delivered. moreover, measures in this area have a significant impact on the competitiveness of european industry and on the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. more efficient energy use can reduce the burden on the most vulnerable consumers and prevent energy poverty.
in writing. − i would argue that, given the painful past of commercial whaling and the recent high risks to whale populations, such as whale bycatch, collision with ships, global climate change and ocean noise pollution, the eu has a consistent and coherent role to play in the main international fora to ensure the highest level of protection for whales worldwide. i would urge opposition to any proposal to legalise any level of scientific whaling and commercial whaling on the coast and elsewhere or to allow any international trade in whale products.
in writing. − one of the main reasons for the ec's involvement in the observatory is the assumption that the observatory, in the course of its activities, contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of the community's audiovisual industry. the problem of insufficient knowledge of the differences between national legislation is often encountered in the distribution of audiovisual goods. the observatory contributes to overcoming these obstacles by providing technical expertise and methodological information to the operators concerned and the community's participation should therefore be welcomed. through its specialised knowledge acquisition and publication activities, the observatory has become a major source of economic and legal information for the various segments of the audiovisual industry, which is used by public and private sector actors. the commission also notes that one of the observatory's most valuable assets is its ability to establish and maintain networks of scientific partners. these networks contribute to improving the quality of the observatory's economic and legal analysis.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis has made it increasingly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain funding for research, technological development and innovation. notes that the commission's communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the development of the digital single market ('the digital single market') was published on 28 june 2013 and that the commission's communication on the implementation of the digital single market ('the digital single market') was published on 27 june 2013; information and communication technologies offer enormous opportunities to stimulate growth and innovation, thus helping to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy and to overcome the current economic crisis. the european research area is more than ever the foundation of the european knowledge society and is necessary to overcome the disparity in research activities, programmes and policies in europe. it is important to allocate adequate funding to ensure the flow of competent researchers who are able to move freely and to support a global research infrastructure accessible to all teams of researchers from across europe. ensuring the security of energy supply in the european union, as well as the principle of energy solidarity, are key priorities on the eu agenda and must be taken into account in the eu budget.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission therefore adopted an action plan on asylum last june. the commission undertook to present concrete proposals between 2008 and 2009 to improve protection standards and to introduce greater solidarity between member states and to strengthen practical cooperation. we have set out the principles which must guide the union's action, maintain its humanitarian and protective tradition, guarantee genuine equality of treatment throughout the union, improve the efficiency of the asylum system, and promote solidarity within the union and between the union and third countries. i am pleased to note that parliament fully shares the commission's philosophy. it shares our ambition to build a more protective, efficient and fair european asylum system. the fact that parliament is now a co-legislator with the council gives me hope that the final result of the negotiations, which will be lengthy, will be more likely than in the past to result in instruments of impeccable quality and more respectful of fundamental rights. the union will thus be able to achieve upward harmonisation of these international protection standards through co-decision and qualified majority voting in the council. i thank parliament for its strong support for all the initiatives announced by the commission in its action plan. i also thank you for the priority you have given to my recent proposal for the creation of a european asylum support office. we need parliament's support to make this arrangement prevail, which will strengthen practical cooperation and the quality of asylum systems. i hope that the three institutions will agree quickly to ensure that this bureau gets off to a fast start. however, mr catania - and i thank you for your report - you are concerned about certain situations, in particular the conditions of detention of asylum seekers, the rights of asylum seekers in the dublin procedures, the impact of border control operations on access to protection and the burden borne by some member states in receiving flows of asylum seekers. i've brought you some answers. as regards the conditions of detention of asylum seekers, the commission has proposed, in the amendments to the directive on reception conditions, clearer rules than those currently in force, including the exclusion, in all cases, of the detention of unaccompanied minors. we have also specified cases where detention is possible for adults, with safeguards such as the right to an effective remedy or the right to legal aid and regular judicial review of the detention measure. in line with mrs roure's report on open and closed reception centres, adopted on 5 february, parliament also identified a number of problems in these centres. the proposed amendments to the directive on reception conditions should help to address these problems. i have proposed, on the same lines, that the rights of asylum seekers under the dublin procedures should be better guaranteed. for example, it is necessary to facilitate the reunification of family members, children with their family members, and to strengthen the procedural guarantees enjoyed by asylum seekers subject to the dublin procedure. the best asylum procedure will be useless if access to such a procedure is not guaranteed. i agree with you, mr catania, that we need to work better with border guards, train them and make them aware of asylum issues. you mentioned mixed flows; i am not saying that we should be in favour of the introduction of a european border guard. the support office, once established, will also contribute to this by preparing manuals for the use of the border guards. we also need to define responsibilities more clearly for those rescued at sea. where will they be landed? where, if at all, can they seek asylum? i am working with the member states to try to find the right answers to these questions. the pressure on the asylum systems of some member states is indeed real. we want more solidarity, not only in financial terms, but also through the teams of experts created by the bureau, which can be mobilized quickly. we will also consider the possibility of voluntarily transferring refugees to a member state other than the one that has granted protection. at the end of this week i will be visiting lampedusa and malta to see what the real needs are and how the union can provide support. i take this opportunity, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to thank you for the increase of eur 10 million, which parliament adopted at the end of 2008, for the european refugee fund. the 10 million euro will enable more refugees to be resettled in the eu in 2009. i would like to stress in this connection the importance of the commitment made by the member states following our mission to jordan and syria to resettle iraqi refugees in the member states of the european union. we are working, and i am working, on all fronts: improving the quality of legislation, practical cooperation, solidarity between member states, and between the union and third countries. i would like to thank parliament very much for its support. we must make the european union a genuine common area of protection and solidarity. and i intend to rephrase that in a very solemn way in the stockholm programme. i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, mr catania and mrs roure, for all the work that has been done and which is very useful to us.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. − the number of refugees worldwide has reached 16 million in recent years. in 2007, over 200 000 asylum applications were lodged in the eu. both asylum seekers and some member states face a significant burden that would be alleviated by a common european asylum system. the authorities should apply specific, clear and uniform time limits for the decision on asylum applications. it is important that refugee status is granted on a case-by-case basis rather than on a generic assessment, such as that based on nationality. i would also like to point out that the european commission's asylum policy plan does not mention the frontex agency, whose role in the area of asylum for refugees is very important. it is also important to note that the number of asylum seekers is directly dependent on the political, economic and social situation in the countries of origin of asylum seekers. the common european asylum system should therefore be closely linked to the european development cooperation policy and humanitarian action, which would reduce the number of asylum seekers, often economic seekers.
in an attempt to address the problem of the baltic energy islands, which will pose a growing threat to lithuania's energy security following the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant at the end of this year, the european commission has drawn up a draft eu strategy for the baltic sea. i asked the european commission's directorate-general for energy and transport to give me access to the document. i was told that the possibility of making information and documents public, as stated in the reply: sharing with the outside world, had not been discussed with the high-level group preparing the project. the european parliament is called the outside world, which is not informed. what are the possibilities for public access to documents of the european institutions that we are talking about for the first time? what if the member of parliament representing the citizens does not have that right? this is a disaster.
in writing. − there are now new technologies that can significantly improve vehicle safety (e.g. electronic stability control systems) or reduce co2 emissions (e.g. low rolling resistance tyres) if such technologies are used as standard in new vehicles.
in writing. − the quality assurance systems that european consumers already know well need to be promoted in the member states, rather than being standardised or merged into one. in order to ensure minimum standards for community quality certification, they need to be assessed and recognised at european level. it is therefore necessary to have a service within the commission responsible for the european approval and authorisation of the use of these systems and to ensure uniform and effective controls at european and national level.
in writing. − the modernisation of competition policy is a crucial factor in the development of the new structure and operation of the enforcement of eu competition policy. the cooperation and coordination of national competition authorities through the european competition network are essential elements of this process. the european parliament expressed serious concern that without an effective renewal of the ect policy, competition policy would be essentially renationalised, which would clearly undermine the concept of ensuring a uniform competition policy throughout the eu. the 2006 and 2007 reports gave a positive assessment of the eca's efficiency and development, based on the criteria of flexibility and pragmatism. efforts to fund the training and judicial cooperation of national judges interpreting and enforcing eu competition law are also welcome.
in writing. − the global financial crisis and the slowdown in economic growth are having a negative impact on the level of entrepreneurship, and the measures that would be most effective for economic growth are those set out in this sgp: making it easier for smes to access finance; simplifying business transfer conditions; giving honest entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt a second chance to start their business. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eurodac). smes are particularly vulnerable to rising energy and raw material prices, and therefore the competitiveness aspect of the sme is enhanced. only through integrated measures, i.e. the promotion of higher environmental standards for production processes and products within the eu, combined with the promotion of the same standards worldwide and an even stronger eu market surveillance, will it be possible to contribute to the common global challenges such as climate change, the decline of fossil energy resources.
i would like to draw attention to a number of factors which i believe are important in addressing the question of preserving and creating jobs. first, it is the global economic crisis that is forcing us to rethink, to reassess our employment strategy. secondly, we must be very critical of what we have already established and of the effectiveness of the strategies we have adopted. i therefore urge the commission to make a very critical assessment of the way in which the member states of the community use the funds allocated to employment. the current practice of allocating most of the funds to qualifications, retraining, various forms of training, i believe, is ineffective. investing in small and medium-sized enterprises, microcredit is the most effective means of creating new jobs. this could be achieved by making more efficient use of both the social fund and the globalisation fund. member states are to submit reports on the use of the social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund, in particular showing the number of new jobs created. the use of inefficient means must be punished. the number of so-called voluntary redundancies is increasing. they are left without jobs, without social support and without financial support. so we should include the unions in this, so that they can protect the interests of our people. i urge the commission and the member states to focus on this important issue.
in general, while supporting the european economic recovery plan, i would like to draw attention to two issues: the issue of euro bonds and the enlargement of the euro area. the issue of euro bonds to strengthen the euro area is not the right instrument and the right time for a europe in financial, economic and social crisis. do we have 16 eurozone members whose economies we want to support, like the other 11 countries? it is proposed to allow the purchase of euro bonds only for swedish and danish krona. what would be the position of the new member states, which for a number of objective reasons are not in the euro area? what is the cost of borrowing? lithuania was prevented from adopting the euro by an inflation rate of over 0.07%, although no euro area member has met all the indicators in 10 years. the lithuanian litas has been linked to the euro for four years, but is it not time to look more creatively at the changes in the world and to expand the euro area, thereby facilitating the eu's exit from the crisis?
in writing. − managing oil demand should not be confined to the eu. the eu's share of world oil consumption will continue to decline gradually over the coming years. this is due to the already strong growth in demand outside the eu. it will therefore be essential for the security of the eu's energy supply to reduce demand growth also at the global level, without jeopardising the enlargement objectives of third countries or the eu itself. the promotion of market-economy pricing mechanisms in third countries, for example by abolishing state subsidies for fuel, is also very important. all these measures require investment. investments are only possible if there is sufficient capital and a profit can be expected. it is therefore necessary to overcome as soon as possible the current financial crisis, which may develop into an economic crisis. the challenges to the future security of the eu's oil supply have increased over the past decade. however, they can be overcome by targeting both supply and demand, if political will and international coordination, cooperation and innovation can be fostered.
member of the commission. − mr president, not only have i listened carefully to what has been said tonight, and not only have i paid attention to what was said in the report by the court of auditors, but also, as i said before, i have just come back from a visit to côte d’ivoire and liberia and have seen with my own eyes what the needs of these countries are in the field of health. they have needs in terms of infrastructure, needs in terms of the trained health providers we have already talked about, and needs in terms of medication. those needs are immense, and i cannot but agree with you that we have to intensify our efforts in offering our help, in the field of health, in the poor countries of africa. i can assure you that i will convey your comments to my colleague, louis michel, and i am sure he too will consider all your suggestions and comments with great attention, just as i have done.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all may i convey the regrets of commissioner mccreevy for not being able to attend. well, this is indeed a long question but i believe both the question and the draft resolution on sepa implementation correctly identify the key issues we need to resolve to make a success of sepa. the first question asks how the commission intends to promote and foster migration to sepa instruments. sepa is primarily a market-driven project, but given the substantial benefits to the wider economy, the commission has sought to encourage sepa migration, for example by acting as a catalyst to raise the political profile of sepa through our sepa progress report and by encouraging early migration by public authorities. and, also, by striving itself to be an early adopter of sepa. and finally, as announced in last week’s commission ‘driving european recovery’ by coming forward with proposals to ensure that the full benefits of sepa are realised. the second question asks if a critical mass of payments will have migrated by end 2010. clearly we favour rapid migration to keep extra costs during migration to a minimum. although the sepa credit transfer (sct) has been successfully launched, less than 2% of payments have migrated. furthermore, the sepa direct debit will only be launched later this year. so the current pace of migration is too slow to attain critical mass migration by 2010. the third question was on the necessity of a clear and binding end date. we see the strong merits of fixing an end date and of course 2012 does not seem unreasonable. however, for many member states this remains a very sensitive question. we therefore favour establishing a clear process to examine this question, by collecting information on the impact of an end date on different stakeholders and launching a meaningful debate with them. this could pave the way for some political endorsement and, if needed, a possible legislative proposal, for example, at the end of the year. your fourth question asks how to enhance legal certainty for the sepa direct debit in relation to the mif and existing mandates. we need a temporary solution to the business model problem to provide legal clarity and get the sepa direct debit successfully launched. that is why the commission fully supports the efforts of parliament and the council to find a temporary solution within the context of the revision of the regulation on cross-border payments. the commission also supports the continued legal validity of existing national direct debit mandates under sepa migration. however, this is a legal matter for national authorities to solve, for example by using the opportunity provided by the payment services directive’s implementation. the fifth question related to how the commission is tackling the mif issue for card payments. this work is progressing primarily through the commission’s assessment under the competition rules of the two major international card schemes, namely mastercard and visa. on 19 december 2007, the commission decided that the mastercard mifs for cross-border card payments with mastercard and maestro branded consumer credit and debit cards were not compatible with the competition rules. mastercard is appealing the commission’s decision. in march 2008 the commission opened proceedings to establish whether visa europe’s mif constitutes an infringement of article 81. discussions with visa are ongoing as well. the commission seeks to maintain a level playing field for mastercard and visa europe as well as for the other payment card schemes which might emerge in the future. your penultimate question asks if the commission should propose a concrete solution to the mif issue. in a market economy it is incumbent upon industry to propose an appropriate business model. in relation to cards, as i have said, discussions are ongoing with mastercard and visa. in relation to sepa direct debit, the commission is willing to assist industry by providing urgent guidance within the framework of a sustained dialogue with the banking industry and on the basis of contributions by the relevant market actors. this guidance should be provided by november 2009 at the latest. and your final question asks what specific measures the commission intends to propose to make sure that sepa migration does not lead to a more expensive payment system. in the commission’s opinion this should not happen. firstly, sepa should foster competition and increase operational efficiency through economies of scale – both producing downward price-pressure. secondly, sepa should also increase transparency, which will limit cross-subsidisation and hidden pricing, although optically some users may perceive the switch from high hidden pricing to low visible pricing as a price increase. here clear communication by banks will be important. third, the commission is carefully monitoring the impact of sepa on customers by launching studies. finally, we agree that there is concern that efficient national debit card schemes may be replaced by more expensive alternatives. however, there are initiatives that could develop into a new pan-european debit card scheme and an overall backstop is provided by the existing powers of eu and national competition authorities. therefore in conclusion sepa should result in a more efficient payment system and adequate safeguards under eu and national competition policy exist. i therefore very much welcome this resolution and parliament’s strong support for sepa.
in these difficult times, it is crucial for the economy to find potential sources of growth. the development of our european financial market is precisely such a potential source of growth for the european economy. in this case, we are talking about the payments market and it is regrettable that the implementation of our decisions has been rather slow. the main reason is usually given as the technical capabilities of banks, because it's mostly technical solutions, but i would say that the technical upgrading of banks is in the interest of the banking sector, the banks themselves, and in this way they can modernize their market, their settlements with customers and make more money. it would therefore be essential that member states implement the single payment area implementation plan more decisively.
the eastern partnership policy is a policy of particular importance, as is the euronest project, which should be implemented in the near future. i am therefore convinced that we need to find the additional eur 350 million needed to implement the eastern partnership policy for the next four years. the republic of belarus. three weeks ago, a delegation from the european parliament's epp-ed group visited minsk. our delegation arrived the day after the visit of the high representative javier solana to belarus. on the one hand, his visit was a clear signal to minsk that the european union was ready to embark on a new phase of pragmatic relations. on the other hand, many of the european union's previous requirements seemed to be forgotten, if not overlooked. the loud phrases about constructive dialogue and discussion of the fundamental problems did not bring any clarity to the majority of belarusians about the policy of the european union in the future. what's done is done. the visit happened, democratic values were silenced. i am glad that the day after mr solana there was a delegation from the epp-ed in minsk and that we put special emphasis on the human rights situation and the requirements of freedom of the press. in conclusion, inviting lukashenko to the prague spring leaders' meeting would be incomprehensible and difficult to justify. secondly, the belarusian authorities must carry out democratic reforms, and must continue to do so. there can be no carte blanche for the lukashenka regime.
during my visit to ukraine, i noticed that little attention was paid to the development of the legal framework in our eastern neighbourhood. the introduction of the acquis communautaire helped lithuania to reform its economic and legal system and become a member of the european union. i hope that the eastern partnership will increasingly focus on developing the legal system in our neighbouring countries. this will not only ensure institutional stability but also allow economic reforms to be implemented. on the other hand, the expansion of the legal framework allows us to promote cooperation between the european union and the eastern neighbourhood, because it provides a stable environment for capital investment and the use of human knowledge.
madam president, i fully support what has been said by the commissioner, that dialogue and engagement are of crucial importance. at the same time, we have to admit that what we see today is a clear lack of political will on the chinese side to have serious and result-oriented dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama. for many of us the case of tibet – its autonomy – is a litmus test for the chinese authorities. tibet is a reflection of the human rights situation in china, as well as the situation of human rights defenders like hu jia, sakharov laureate 2008. i do not see mr ford in the chamber now, but i would like to assure him that human rights always have been and always will be at the top of our political agenda.
the author. - the massacre in guinea-bissau is a painful blow not only to the democracy of this drug-dependent country but also to the whole of the west african region. the assassination of the president and the commander-in-chief of the army has crowned the country's slide into a tailspin of weakening institutions, an increasingly fragile democracy, growing corruption and a personalized government. the state is in chaos, with no water, no medicine, no schools. the drug business crosses borders and borders and is becoming a threat to the whole region, reaching the countries of the european union. although the military leadership has so far kept its promise not to interfere in the internal affairs of the country, the latest developments could completely undermine the remnants of democracy in guinea-bissau. the new government must respect the constitutional order, resolve conflicts peacefully, and thoroughly investigate murders. the european union's security and defence mission must help to bring about a breakthrough in the country's development, stability and a more dignified life, it is expected that the presidential elections will take place in a few months and will be held in accordance with international standards for the conduct of elections. we call on the member states of the european union and the international community as a whole to provide guinea-bissau with the financial and expert assistance it needs to hold democratic elections. guinea's political forces, which have been at odds with bissau, should seek common dialogue and compromise in a difficult time for the state and make urgent decisions on national security, electoral procedures, public administration. we call for a more effective fight against corruption, and for dialogue with civil society and other organisations on internal reconciliation in the state.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, in addition to what has already been said today on the situation in guinea-bissau, i would like to comment on two issues. firstly, the assassinations of the president of guinea-bissau, joão bernardo vieira, and the chief of the armed forces, general tagme na waie, should be thoroughly investigated and those responsible should be brought to justice. secondly, in our resolution today, we express our hope that the presidential elections in the country will be held within 60 days. we should today call upon eu member states and the international community to make sure that guinea-bissau receives the financial and technical support which is needed to conduct credible elections.
in writing. − the increasing complexity of financial markets, and in particular the financial crisis, requires improved statistical collection. the reliability and timeliness of the data should be the reference points of the amending regulation. the rapporteur considers that timely collection of statistical information is of the utmost importance. therefore, the european system of central banks and the european statistical system should collect data on a monthly basis, if necessary. this could enhance the quality of statistical data and optimise their usefulness, in particular as regards the monitoring of the financial services sector. i support the proposal of the european central bank to amend the council regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european system of central banks in order to make this collection more efficient. the regulation thus in force would also be adapted to the trends on the financial markets.
in writing. − the establishment of a common consensus on the coordination of artistic training at european level is important. the artistic activity involves the acquisition of a number of skills, knowledge and materials that have historically been closely linked to scientific and technological progress. thus, throughout history, art has made use of the most advanced technology of the day, and many aesthetic theories have been influenced by scientific considerations. in turn, practical experience and certain artistic disciplines also contributed to the advancement of technology, and thus to human knowledge and world change. although artistic creation cannot be limited to the strict application of scientific and technological knowledge, technology, although not created for this purpose, can be useful for art, just as art can promote the research and development of technologies that are not only applicable to artistic activities. this means that arts education contributes to a closer and more productive relationship between education, culture, ict and the arts in the 21st century.
in writing. − the legal form of the regulation, which replaces the existing directive, is very welcome in the new version: it will remove legal ambiguities and inconsistencies, and will define and implement measures. another important objective is to increase the safety of cosmetic products. since the cosmetics directive in force did not have clear safety assessment requirements, the regulation sets minimum standards in this regard.
in writing. − a successful european microcredit initiative could make a significant contribution to achieving the growth and employment objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy and to creating an innovative, creative and dynamic european economy. small businesses are a key source of growth, employment, entrepreneurial potential, innovation and cohesion in the eu. microcredit can in particular support one of the four lisbon priorities specifically the creation of business opportunities by helping people to (re) integrate socially and economically by employing themselves. indeed, the lisbon strategy can only be considered successful if it leads to a substantial increase in employment. the outcome of the european initiative on microcredit should be innovative, focusing on target groups that have not received sufficient attention so far.
mr president, first of all i would like to cordially thank our finnish colleague esko seppänen for his efforts which contributed to reaching a compromise with the commission and the council on eib loans and community guarantees. as we all know, after the european parliament won a case before the court of justice, the respective council decision was annulled, but to remain in force for one year until a new decision is adopted. the commission proposed the codecision procedure and tomorrow we are to vote on the compromise agreed during the trialogue and bring this codecision procedure to a close. it is important to remember that the eib was originally set up to finance operations within the eu. so the community guarantee to the eib against losses and loan guarantees are the basis for its activities outside the eu. the proposal we discuss today covers around 10-15% of the eib’s activities, i.e. the bank’s activities outside the eu in the pre-accession countries, mediterranean countries, asia, latin america and south africa. these eib operations are especially relevant in middle-income countries and infrastructure, financial and commercial sectors. these eib operations are of utmost importance in an environment of global financial crisis and recession. i am happy that we managed to reach a compromise on all the major issues, such as the deadline for the presentation of a new proposal for a decision, which is now 30 april 2010, as well as on the sunset clause, which is 18 months after the deadline, 31 october 2011. the european parliament amended the commission’s proposal pointing out the importance of respect for human rights, development policies, energy diversification, request for strategic documents, greater transparency of the eib policies and activities. we have a good result, and i hope that tomorrow the compromise will be adopted by the necessary majority. i am counting on the support of all the political groups of this house.
the european investment bank is the largest bank in the world and clearly has the potential to play a major role in economic development both within and outside the european union. a number of proposals are currently being put forward to extend the functions of the european investment bank. as a member of the economic committee, i cannot even remember many of those proposals. it seems that everyone now knows what the european investment bank has to do. there are also many suggestions that the bank's operations outside the european union should be reassessed. the document prepared by the notifier is precisely intended to extend the validity of the community guarantees for the european investment bank's loan projects outside the european union. the diversity of proposals clearly indicates the need for a broader debate on the activities of the european investment bank and the direction in which those activities should be developed. i hope that the commission will take the time to look more closely at this problem in the context of the overall european economic stimulus plan. the guarantees provided by the european investment bank include a number of additional conditions to take account of human rights and balanced development aspects. this is a welcome initiative, but the european union should seek in its external policy to ensure that other banks operating in third countries also implement or conduct their activities in accordance with these principles. only then will there be a level playing field outside the european union and the european investment bank will not risk incurring significant losses.
in writing. although the current european air transport system is considered to be very safe, the rapid growth of traffic is likely to lead to new safety challenges. action at community level is therefore needed to maintain (and possibly increase) the level of security in the future. the most important thing is to update and harmonise standards in those segments not yet covered by eu legislation (and which are therefore characterised by fragmentation of the regulatory framework and poor enforcement) in order to integrate them into the common framework. this is particularly true for two elements of the air transport chain which are considered to be of high safety importance as they are potentially the areas of highest risk.
every time we look at another summit to address economic problems, we recognize that the results are good, but unfortunately we are behind the times and the mechanism for implementing those decisions is not clear. what can be done to avoid these problems? first, countries should assess the integration effect in their national economic policies. decisions are often made on the basis of past history, as in the case of crises. unfortunately, we live in an integrated european union with a single market, and all these decisions usually don't have the impact they used to. secondly, some kind of temporary institutional environment for the decision-implementation mechanism should be created. waiting for the lisbon treaty to be ratified - people's lives are not waiting, we have to make decisions today. clearly, there is a need for greater coordination between euro-area and non-euro-area countries. how can we do that? i believe that the mechanism for closer cooperation could be based on what are known as currency mechanisms, or rm2 in english. this would help to bring the two europeans, the new europe and the old europe, closer together and to find a consensus.
first of all, i would like to pay tribute and thank prime minister mirek topolánek, we all know very well what it means to preside over the european union and what it means to preside over the european union in the context of the global financial crisis, the economic downturn. i therefore sincerely wish the czech republic success in meeting its new challenges and in taking the lead in the european union until the middle of this year. the brussels council: today, many of us repeat as a mantra the figures reflecting the agreements reached in the council. eur 5 billion for strategic energy projects and broadband internet. eur 50 billion for the member states of the european union outside the euro area, for balancing payments, balances of payments. eur 75 billion for the international monetary fund. the commission will also be able to provide support to the eastern partnership. of the 5 billion, 175 million are expected to go towards the energy bridge linking sweden with the baltic states, which have hitherto been an island off the european union's energy market. is that a lot or a little? is the glass half full or half empty? under normal circumstances, i would welcome the outcome of the council, the agreements reached. of course we expected more, of course we expected that a better financing of the european economic recovery plan would be agreed. however, in the light of all the manifestations of nationalism and protectionism, i believe that the agreement reached is undoubtedly a good expression of solidarity and i would like it to be a starting point, a good start for further work.
in writing. − as the main objectives of this revision are to simplify and reformulate the regulation while reducing unnecessary administrative burden, thus fulfilling the commission's commitment to better regulation, ensuring compliance with the montreal protocol as amended in 2007, ensuring that future problems are addressed, ensuring timely recovery of the ozone layer and avoiding adverse impacts on human health and ecosystems, i am voting in favour of this legislation.
it is regrettable that the efforts of the european union and other international organisations to defend human rights in turkmenistan have not yet produced positive results. journalists, human rights defenders are silenced there. women and children continue to be raped and trafficked. i am, however, convinced that the policy of severing relations and isolating turkmenistan is not a viable one. not because it is a gas-rich country, but because it is only by promoting connections with the outside world that democratic change can be brought about. i therefore support the european commission's position and the interim agreement, which could be suspended if necessary in response to developments in the country. the european union's approach to energy in its relations with turkmenistan is certainly inseparable from monitoring the slightest developments in the field of human rights.
belarus is at the heart of europe and i think it should be interested in good relations with both the european union and its neighbour russia. participation in the european union partnership programme provides such opportunities. the european union and in particular its immediate neighbours lithuania, latvia and poland have an interest in an independent, stable belarus moving towards democracy, the development of human rights and a social market economy. i'm sure that's what the people of belarus want more and more. the isolationist policy towards belarus has not worked, and this must be clearly stated. on the other hand, as long as the freedom of speech and expression, the activity of parties and the opposition are restricted in belarus, there will be no real dialogue and understanding between brussels and minsk. i'm not sure if it's time to roll out the red carpet in brussels for all belarusian leaders. belarus is the last country in europe that still carries out the death penalty, although the number has fallen sharply, according to estimates by human rights organisations. i think that the members of the european parliament, whatever their political group, are very unhappy with this situation and would demand that minsk abolish the death penalty altogether as soon as possible. belarus plans to build a nuclear power plant within seven years, right next to lithuania's border. i would remind you that the european commission has committed itself to closely monitoring the belarusian government's compliance with the provisions of the tatenos and other international organisations in the construction of the power plant and to ensuring that the nuclear power plant meets all the latest safety requirements.
today the belarusian people celebrate the independence day. i would remind you that on march 25, 1918, the republic of belarus was proclaimed. at the moment when we are discussing this, a rally is taking place in the square in front of the academy of sciences in minsk, initiated by the democratic opposition. there are 5,000 people in the square. i hope they will not be repressed. therefore, as before, and especially today, i stand in solidarity with all belarusians in the world. first of all, with the belarusians gathered in one of the squares of minsk, those who cherish the spirit of independence and freedom. the dialogue with belarus. dialogue is necessary, but not at any price. what we, the european union, can do, not by making concessions to the regime, but by promoting dialogue with civil society, is to resolve the issue of schengen visa prices as quickly as possible. the schengen visa, which costs 60 euros, is too expensive for many belarusians. i remind you that the schengen visa is half the price for russian citizens.
madam president, we should do everything we can to halt europe’s moral decline. opportunism is most evident when gross crimes against humanity committed during the last century are neglected. unfortunately, such negligence of crimes of communist totalitarianism brings with it an appeasement of all neo-nazis in germany, russia or anywhere: any of them could ask, if the soviets are forgiven, then why should not our ancestors also be forgiven? the roots of that bad phenomenon lie in nuremberg, where nazis were simply acquitted of initiating a conspiracy with stalin in the second world war. the greatest crime was ignored because of due process. why? because the shadow of stalin – hitler’s homologue – was cast over the tribunal for two crucial years. even at that time, the west capitulated morally to the soviets. but there is no reason to stay limited of mind and fearful forever.
the notification of an amendment to a council regulation on the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the community shall be made by the committee on agriculture and rural development. however, i would like to stress that in the current financial and economic crisis, support for the community's most deprived citizens is taking on a new dimension of social policy. eu food aid is crucial in times of crisis, with rising unemployment and falling living standards. the number of unemployed persons in lithuania in february of this year was 16 times higher than the number of jobs available. in lithuania, about 20 percent of the population is now considered poor. in 2006, 13 million people received food aid in the european union. it is estimated that in the coming years, 16 per cent or 80 million of the eu's population will be living below the poverty line. the report by mr c. ascher proposes to maintain the current funding of the food aid programme, with funds coming from the eu budget alone, and to reject the european commission's proposal to finance the programme from the eu and member states' budgets. the commission proposal does not correspond to economic reality. many of the eu's poorer countries, struggling with the aftermath of the crisis, would find it difficult to contribute to the financing of food aid programmes in the current period. and funding from the eu budget, as has been the case since 1987, would be an effective and truly solidarity-based support for impoverished citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr czesław siekierski’s report and our resolution on food distribution to the most deprived persons in the community. the report and resolution are of great importance in the context of the financial crisis and economic recession. growing poverty in the eu – when in some countries poverty affects around 20% of the population – clearly shows that the need for food assistance is quite high. under the present circumstances, i fully support the european parliament’s position that the eu food distribution programme, which allocates nearly half a billion euros with the aim of diminishing malnutrition and poverty in the eu, should be fully funded by the community. i would especially like to stress the importance of the commission’s proposal to improve the structure for selecting products supplied under the programme. the food should be chosen by member states’ authorities and distributed in cooperation with civil society partners.
mr president, today we are discussing the protection of the arctic, which is a very hot topic – not only in the european union. firstly, because the arctic region is thought to contain huge energy resources – as much as 20% of the world’s undiscovered technically recoverable reserves – the temptation to exploit these resources is irresistible. secondly, the arctic environment is exceptionally fragile. the whole of the international community stands to be affected by many of the changes that are already taking place. thirdly, territorial disputes hang over the arctic. we risk triggering major conflicts between countries wanting to protect – including by military means – what countries in the region consider their national interests. it is time for the european parliament to make its position clear, as it has taken almost no part in this debate until now – with the exception of our resolution, passed in october last year, calling for an international treaty for the protection of the arctic. it is important to mention that eu member states and the eea associated countries comprise more than 50% of the membership of the arctic council. as it is for the united states, the arctic should be a strategic priority for the european union. i fully support our draft proposal that the commission and the council should work towards establishing a moratorium on the exploitation of the geological resources in the arctic for a period of 50 years, pending fresh scientific studies. we, the european parliament, should call on the commission to initiate negotiations with the russian authorities on a number of important issues which are listed in our draft resolution. it is time to include the arctic on the agenda for the forthcoming eu-russia summit.
in writing. the current financial crisis and economic downturn are having a negative impact on public budgets. economic growth has slowed down considerably in most member states, and some are even experiencing economic stagnation. unemployment rates started to decline. in such a situation, it is essential that the european social fund is fully used to address the problems of the unemployed, especially the most vulnerable, in times of economic recession. it is essential that the four main areas of activity of the european social fund remain the same: - improving employment conditions, preventing unemployment, prolonging working life and promoting greater participation in the labour market; - improving social inclusion by promoting the integration of socially disadvantaged people into employment and combating discrimination; - promoting partnerships in the reform of the employment and integration sectors.
the crisis must change the behaviour and thinking of each of us. meps in lithuania, latvia and ireland have reduced their salaries, which means that meps in those countries will also be cut. the incomes of presidents, ministers and other public officials are being squeezed, and rightly so, because solidarity is needed, the burden of the crisis must not fall on the weaker shoulders. after more than a decade of hard-won compromise, it would be difficult to cut meps' salaries immediately, but i would urge my colleague to donate part of his salary to charity. but in times of crisis, the allowances paid to meps should be cut. i hope that most colleagues would support a reduction in the number of translations into all 23 official languages, which would save hundreds of millions of euros. the travel costs of 200 million euros per year from brussels to strasbourg for the plenary sessions are now particularly absurd. to save money and to protect the environment, we should abandon the waste of thousands of tonnes of paper and switch to electronic work in meetings.
i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. i believe that my colleague linda mcavan, as well as salvatore tatarella, have prepared reports which will help the european union to remain one of the most ecologically and environmentally conscious regions. it is not without reason that it is joked and seriously said that the eu's main export is strict and clear standards. companies from different continents have adapted to the higher european standards and are often following them in other global markets. national eco-labels are now more widespread and better known than eu eco-labels. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that more efforts are needed to make this sign as recognisable as possible to all european consumers and beyond. the european union institutions, national governments and individual companies should be more proactive in this area. the increasing integration of eu markets, the creation of a european brand and the harmonisation of requirements are inevitable processes that benefit all market participants. the updating of the emas regulation is also welcome. its popularity has so far lagged behind that of the international standard iso 14001. i agree that aligning emas and iso requirements would attract more organisations and make them complementary rather than competing standards. i am sure that in the future, environmental protection and the limitation of waste will be given even more attention. both reports, i believe, contribute to the movement in this direction.
member of the commission. − we do not object to the postponement.
mr president, i would like to propose that it be mentioned that any plans to build a new nuclear power station on non-western lines at the border with the eu should not be included in these talks – in positive talks on how to support belarus, but not in this case.
mr president, when three young activists are mentioned as being subject to forcible army conscription, one of them at least is the son of the opposition leader, mr viačorka. so it is worth mentioning that it is tantamount to state-practised hostage-taking: ‘look, be calm in your position because your son is in our army and something may happen to him.’ that would be a little warning, maybe giving more security for those young men forcibly conscripted into the army.
mr president, when the suggestion is made that the european humanities university should go back to belarus, it is worth mentioning that it should be on the basis of genuine guarantees that it will be able to operate freely and not be taken back under the control of the regime.
mr president, let me recall our significant resolution of 2005 about the end of the second world war in europe, which stated that ‘there cannot be reconciliation without truth and remembrance’. i would not like to delete the truth now. please agree that ‘truth’ be inserted: reconciliation with truth and remembrance. please vote for truth.
mr president, the text refers to crimes against humanity that were still happening ‘as late as july 1995’. it would be better to say ‘were still taking place in july 1995’, because nobody can be sure that there were no more such crimes in 1996. (interjection from the floor) yes, indeed – that would be softer; ‘took place as late as’ should be replaced with ‘were still taking place in’.
mr president, i supported the resolution on the evaluation of the eu-belarus dialogue. i voted ‘yes’ because i welcome the increased high level eu-belarus dialogue, including bilateral contacts, and the intensified technical cooperation initiated by the commission. at the same time, i would like to point out that the political dialogue between the eu and belarus must be conditional on, and directly connected to, the lifting of restrictions on freedoms and cessation of the repression of participants in peaceful demonstrations and human rights activists. i insist that the democratic opposition in belarus and civil society be included in the dialogue between the eu and belarus. last but not least, i hope that the government of belarus will use the next nine months to achieve substantial progress in a number of areas, including freedom of association and the granting of political rights and freedoms.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution, and there are at least two important issues in the document i would like to clarify my position on. at the beginning of his term in office, president medvedev made a public commitment to strengthen the rule of law in russia and raised concerns over the independence of russia’s judiciary and legal system. this is pointed out in our resolution, and i support the position. it is time for action. it is time to prove the president’s words were not just pure rhetoric the international community wanted to hear. in our resolution we also raised concerns with the russian government regarding its decision to recognise abkhazia and south ossetia as sovereign states, to sign military assistance and cooperation agreements with the de facto authorities of those two provinces and to establish military bases there. those steps undermine the territorial integrity of georgia as insisted upon in the relevant united nations resolutions. so we should call on russia once again to reverse its decision and to maintain that russia cannot be regarded as an impartial moderator in the peace process.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the commission's swift action in proposing these legislative amendments, which will undoubtedly help to overcome the negative impact of the unexpected financial crisis, but it deeply regrets that no other important amendments were envisaged. the package of amendments was understood as a response to a temporary but exceptionally critical situation; nevertheless, it does fully satisfy the request for more simplified procedures and more flexibility to apply the existing rules under the structural funds regulations, which have been repeatedly put forward by the european parliament in recent years. it is by allowing for a more flexible distribution of the community's share of the countries' financing over the entire programming period that the national economies will immediately be channelled the cash flows needed to respond to their current budgetary constraints.
in writing. − to help migrants integrate, it is essential to support language courses; integration is a two-way process involving the migrant and the host country. the desire of migrants to learn the language of the host country and to manage their lives does not mean that they abandon the language and culture of their country of origin. language learning (native and local languages) must be encouraged from a very early stage, even in primary education, in particular to promote the integration of migrants and ethnic minorities, such as the roma, into european societies. lifelong learning is important for migrants, for ethnic minorities and for groups with disadvantaged social and economic situations, as it is an integration process, and participation in lifelong learning programmes provides opportunities for newly arrived immigrants. particular attention should be paid to the typically disadvantaged migrant, ethnic minority groups resulting from the activities of groups in a disadvantaged social and economic situation, the faster they are integrated into schools, the better their chances of gaining further education and employment in schools.
as current events show how the real economy, and in particular the economies of small countries, is affected by the errors of large financial groups, the documents submitted should provide a legal basis to manage two main processes: to reconcile the free cyclical movement of capital within a financial group with the need to ensure the liquidity of the real economy and macroeconomic stability in times of economic downturn and also, secondly, to facilitate the sharing of responsibility between the supervisory authorities of the parent and subsidiary companies in order to ensure the proper functioning of the financial group and to provide clarity on who will cover losses in the event of errors. it should be said that the document presented is only a first step in this direction and i would like to emphasise that this problem will not be solved without assessing the impact of competition law on the activities of financial groups. this is something we always forget and it should be a priority for the new term.
i would like to draw attention to an unpleasant fact that is hidden behind the beautiful words. in fact, europe is now divided into two parts: the euro area and the non-euro area. we were talking about the management of financial markets an hour ago, and it's clear that we want to ensure that the movement of capital, the activities of financial groups, is uniform throughout europe. it's macroeconomic management, leaving it in national hands and leaving it to the countries to solve those problems when they have problems. that is not the approach that is helping us to strengthen the single market. we need macroeconomic governance, and this will be done on the basis of the proposal of the de larosière group. but this macroeconomic governance at the european level, not just the eurozone level, is what we need now. i therefore believe that one of our parliament's proposals for the ecofin council would be to consider macroeconomic governance not only in the context of the euro area but also at the level of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − oil is the most important source of energy in the european union, and the economy is highly dependent on its constant, reliable and affordable supply. in view of the high and increasing dependence on oil imports, security of oil supply is of particular importance. the eu's oil demand will continue to grow until 2030, albeit at only 0.25% per year. in 2030, oil will remain the main source of primary energy in the eu, accounting for around 35% of total energy consumption. given that oil supply and refining capacity cannot currently meet the growing demand, the market situation will remain tense. these factors must be taken into account in the development of a coherent and realistic european energy policy. this policy must include the eu's ability to respond to any sudden supply crisis. the precautionary principle is an important factor in mitigating unforeseen supply disruptions, since oil shortages would shut down several or even all sectors of the economy. in this respect, the possession of stocks is a matter of fundamental national security.
in writing. − as road vehicles emit almost 25% of the total co2, the eu's main challenge is to reduce the energy intensity of vehicles and the amount of carbon compounds they emit into the environment. tyres account for between 20% and 30% of the total fuel consumption of vehicles and therefore the increased durability of tyres should be considered as part of an integrated approach to reduce the fuel consumption and emissions of road vehicles. the list of targeted actions in the energy efficiency action plan, which envisages a 20% reduction in use by 2020, also highlights the possible use of tyre labelling as one of the ways to achieve this target.
in writing. - i am in favour of extending the regulation of voice calls. the adoption of regulation (ec) no 717/2007 did not lead to a significant decrease in roaming prices, but rather to the compliance with the regulation's ceiling. i think that the scope of the regulation should be extended to include sms. regarding the excessive prices to be paid by consumers, it seems that regulation of the retail and wholesale price of sms is unfortunately necessary at the moment, and i therefore vote in favour of this regulation.
in writing. − the time is right for ten-t policy, based on 15 years of experience, to reflect in detail on its objectives and measures. there is a need to review projects and measures, to put more emphasis on eu coordination and to seek more binding commitments from member states in the implementation of priority projects agreed by them. the ten-t priority projects and maps were mainly large and expensive national transport infrastructure projects, and some of the previous 30 ten-t projects were not feasible to implement, while other projects, especially after eu enlargement, became very important but did not make this list. the current economic crisis may again encourage this logic in transport infrastructure investment. however, well-thought-out projects and investments in the eu's transport infrastructure are needed to develop it further over the next 10-20 years. decisions on transport infrastructure projects should be based on sound cost-benefit assessments, sustainability and the european added value for the international community.
you have mentioned several areas where new member states are developing their activities in both programmes. i would like to ask you what you would say in general: are new member states less active in comparison with old member states, and, if so, what can the commission do in order to help them?
member of the commission. − the first question was quite specific. of course we do not know how many jobs are created: economies are simply much more complex than if there were a causal relation between how much money you put in one programme and how much you supported. we are pretty sure – i am pretty sure also, when i move among the researchers, among the smes, when i hear the reactions and when i hear their emotions and how well they are actually using the programme, then i am sometimes much more satisfied than when i hear that we are a bit too bureaucratic, and so on. but i think that we have to look at that. we try to accommodate the various needs of smes: ones which are competing, which have their own capacity to compete, which have research capacity; but we also try to accommodate the others, which have the research needs but do not have the capacity. that is why we are paying, for example, for research via universities, institutes and so on. concerning the increase in gdp, statistically of course it is not possible to have a direct link, but you can do correlation analyses from which you can find out that this is correlated in the long term. so the countries which are investing more in r&d are, of course, more developed, and vice versa. this is, then, the reality: that those that are wealthier invest more in r&d later. so in essence, even if i cannot precisely answer that question, i can give you a fairly sure answer from the statistical analysis that this is the way to strengthen the competitiveness and, as a result, the gdp, jobs and so on of anybody who is investing more in this context. on the question of the new member states – and that is really an interesting question, because we are, of course, following that quite closely – i can say that they are quite active, that they are applying a lot; on average their success rates are slightly higher than the success rates of more developed member states, which i think is normal, because somehow the strength of institutions is in the countries which have a longer and stronger tradition in r&d and of course normally are also stronger. but if you look at something very simple – if you look at the correlation: how much the country is investing in r&d at home and how much it is getting from the framework programme via pure competition – there, a strong correlation exists. so the country which is actually investing more at home, and which therefore also has stronger research potential, is getting it twice – it is getting it at home, and is also getting it via competition in the european framework programme, which is for excellence. but something else is also interesting. if you look at how much the member states – the new member states – are investing in their r&d in global european investment, and how much they are getting from fp7, the proportion of the latter is higher than they are actually investing at home. so these connections are very clear, and my advice would be: use all possible instruments to strengthen capacity at home; use – in smart ways – structural and cohesion funds, where they have committed the amount of framework programme actually for the purpose of that – eur 50 billion is committed – and use that money so that in the future they would help themselves at home and they would help themselves also in the possibility to compete globally, because the world is global.
member of the commission. − mr paleckis, i am convinced that the bonus article 169 initiative is expected to substantially improve the effectiveness of environmental and sustainable development policies for the entire baltic region. it would, in particular, greatly contribute to the implementation of mainly the environmental part of the european union strategy for the baltic sea region that the commission is planning to present to the european council in june 2009. we are now moving ahead swiftly with the preparation of this legislative proposal on an article 169 and have included bonus-169 in our legislative programme for 2009. we are making every effort to table a legislative proposal as soon as we possibly can in 2009. however, the timing of the legislative proposal is not entirely in our hands: it also depends on the timely and successful response by the bonus consortium in revising the tentative action plan. if the latter reaches the commission by the beginning of june – this was agreed by the bonus consortium – then i am quite confident that the legislative proposal can be tabled still under the mandate of the current commission.
i thank you very much, commissioner, for your precise and clear answer, and there seems to be hope that the matter will be taken up soon. i would like to ask you whether the fact that the baltic sea environment will be even more tightly controlled, whether this project will be able to be somehow related to the environmental impact of the nordstream project in the baltic sea? is it a real thing or not a real thing?
for the alde group i would also like to welcome the agreement reached in london, but also to stress that a global economy requires global governance. the european union can play that leadership role for two reasons: it has managed to restructure its economies in a short space of time, both after the war and after the collapse of the post-soviet space. we have a great deal of experience in managing such complex processes. they must be based on structural reforms. we must make room for new initiatives. if we focus on the technical details, the regulatory improvements, which are obviously needed, we lose the initiative and the space for movement. movement and new jobs only come about when structural change occurs. what structural changes can the european union offer the world? first of all, modernise governance, modernise the financial markets of the european union, build on the strength of our common european market, not lock ourselves into our national corners. if we can work together in the european single market, it will be a great example to the world that protectionism is not necessary, that it is openness, cooperation, capital flows and macroeconomic balances, based on common agreements, that help to maintain stability and restore the economy. this european experience is invaluable. why we don't do that is always hard for me to understand. maybe we care too much about how those hedge funds will live and we care too little about how people will live.
the imf's note on the eu's options for a speedier exit from the crisis in central and eastern europe mentions the introduction of the euro as one of the measures. this is offered to countries that have currency boards. in fact, lithuania has been pegging the litas to the euro for four years, twice as long as required by the currency management mechanism. the duration of the exchange rate mechanism should also be reduced to one year for non-euro area countries. the economic downturn in the eu and worldwide requires extraordinary, urgent, creative solutions and compromises, all the more so since, in the ten years of the euro, not one euro area country has met all the criteria for the euro area, the maastricht criteria.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolutions under discussion today attach particular importance to the interests of citizens, and more specifically of complainants, in the application of community law. within the limits of its confidentiality obligations, the commission shall endeavour to be more transparent and to publish more information in its annual report on the europa website and in its correspondence. the commission is developing a common eu portal to help citizens. it is looking at how best to present useful information to citizens and direct them to information that best matches their interests. the commission is finalising its work on explaining the principle of member states' liability for breaches of community law, which will help citizens to obtain redress in national courts. in the case of complaints, the commission confirms the importance it attaches to the formalities, the efficient handling of complaints and the provision of information to complainants on the progress of their complaints. it also confirms its interest in finding solutions as quickly as possible. finally, i would like to recall, as mrs wallis and mr medina ortega have rightly pointed out, the importance of national courts in the application of community law. the commission is working in several contexts, with national judges, as mr zwiefka said, to make them more aware of the various aspects of community law and to give them all the necessary tools to access the relevant information. as regards the new 'european union pilot' method, this is not an additional step in the procedure. this method makes it possible to examine rapidly whether a solution can be found directly and rapidly with the interested parties in a member state. it has built on the commission's practice over the years, adding a better commitment from the commission and the participating member states in terms of the organisation of contacts and the outcomes to be targeted. there are many specific points raised in the draft report under discussion today. the commission will provide, in its reply to the resolution, explanations on the aspects on which i have no opportunity to comment today. that said, as regards infrastructure, which is also my area of responsibility, i can only welcome the european parliament's call to ensure that infringement procedures are dealt with and, if necessary, closed, which prevent member states from investing in infrastructure that could affect the implementation of the european economic recovery plan. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the common interest of parliament and the commission in the proper and correct application of community law in the interests of citizens and businesses. we confirm our common assessment of the paramount importance of this aspect of the better regulation programme.
the rapporteur. − at a time when the european union economy is experiencing a downturn, it is crucial to stimulate growth. one of the sources of economic growth in the european union is the development of the single market, which is still highly fragmented, particularly in the area of financial services. the proposal presented should help to address this problem and contribute to the creation of a single european payments area. in english, this is called a single payment area. this document already has a history. only after the introduction of the euro and the abolition of exchange rates in the euro area countries did it become clear that the prices for international payments still differed from the prices for local payments. regulation no 2560 of the european parliament and of the council on international payments in euro was therefore adopted and entered into force at the end of 2001. it introduced a uniform taxation of the relevant local, national and international payments and enshrined this principle. this was aimed at reducing costs for consumers and ensuring greater competition in the payment services market. the implementation of this regulation has led to a reduction in payment costs, for example, from an average of eur 24 for an international transfer of eur 100 in the european union to eur 2,5 today. on the other hand, the document revealed certain shortcomings. it was therefore decided to carry out a review of it. the present document is an improved version of that regulation no 2560. what's new in that document? first, the principle of uniform charges for cross-border and corresponding local payments is extended to include direct debits. it was not possible to use it before. the creation of a single payment area and the adoption of the payment services directive are changing the payment environment in europe and it is therefore important that the popular electronic payment instrument direct debit can be used internationally from november 2009. in order to help establish that common direct debit model, the regulation provides that, in the absence of a bilateral agreement between the payment service providers of the payee and the payer, a flat-rate multi-party interchange fee of 0,08 euro cent for direct debits is to be introduced for a transitional period until 2012. the document also provides for ways to improve consumer protection and remove barriers to trade. member states are invited to designate competent authorities to monitor the application of this regulation and those authorities should also actively cooperate between the parties to minimise obstacles to business and to provide guidance on how to assess compliance with the established principle. another innovation proposed by this revision is the gradual abolition of the balance of payments reporting requirements for banks in certain countries, with a different procedure for reporting balance of payments data. i am very sorry that we have not been able to reach agreement with the council on this point and that the procedure for the review of the balance of payments has not yet been defined, nor have the procedures for its implementation. parliament and the commission have advocated that date be fixed strictly.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express the commission's appreciation for the speed with which parliament has dealt with these two important dossiers, and i would like to thank both the rapporteurs and president berès for having made a decisive contribution to the speed of the work. the member states are now only a few months away from transposing the payment services directive. these two measures, together with the significant commitment of the payments industry to develop sepa products, represent a key and timely step towards the completion of the single payments market. these measures, together with the directive, will complete the legal basis which is essential to ensure clarity, certainty and stability in the market. the negotiations over the last few weeks have made it possible to reach a consensus very quickly on these two dossiers. as regards the revised crossborder payments regulation, i am pleased to announce that the commission agrees with the proposed amendment, which is the result of a compromise. the commission welcomes in particular the inclusion in its original proposal of articles governing the issue of the multilateral interbank commission for direct debit operations. the market was expecting these provisions and we consider them indispensable for the timely launch of sepa direct debit by european banks. these rules will give the payments industry three years to propose a long-term business model for automatic debiting that respects competition rules. the commission, in the spirit of compromise, is prepared to replace the unconditional abolition of these obligations with a review clause as proposed by parliament and the council. as regards the revised electronic money directive, this is particularly ambitious legislation and will provide a welcome second chance to establish a truly profitable electronic money market. this directive aims to provide the market with a clear and balanced legal and prudential framework, removing unnecessary, disproportionate or excessive barriers to entry and making the activity of issuing electronic money more attractive. the new directive should foster genuine and effective competition between all market participants while ensuring a level playing field for all payment service providers and a high level of consumer protection. the compromise reached strikes a fine balance between fully safeguarding our initial objectives and adequately addressing the legitimate concerns expressed during the adoption process. we therefore fully support this proposal.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, the legal affairs committee supports the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cross-border payments in the community. the aims of the commission initiative are as follows: firstly, to replace the existing regulation in order to adapt it to market developments; secondly, to advance the protection of consumer rights and to provide an adequate legal framework for the development of a modern and efficient payment system within the eu; and thirdly, to achieve an internal market for payment services in euro. the legal affairs committee was appointed to submit an opinion to the lead committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the opinion it was proposed that member states may appoint existing institutions to act as competent authorities and to utilise or extend existing procedures concerning cross-border payment services. it is important to apply and improve already existing measures and redress bodies to deal effectively with complaints and disputes regarding this proposal. it is important to point out that the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and especially the extended principle of equality of charges for cross-border payments should comply with the ec treaty, article 95(1). cross-border payments in euro require a community-wide approach because the applicable rules and principles have to be the same in all member states in order to achieve legal certainty and a level playing field for all european payments market stakeholders.
the rapporteur. - i would like to say that the text presented is a compromise reached in difficult negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament. however, the result is positive and i would like to thank mr trnka, the council representative, and the commission representatives for their good cooperation, and i would also like to thank the staff of the economic committee who helped to prepare this document. it will also answer the questions raised by mr n. lungren, namely that it will help to strengthen the euro area as a whole by strengthening the settlement system for payments in euro. as a non-euro country, i am very pleased that this regulation can be applied if the non-euro area member states so wish, and for payments in the national currency lithuania, that would be the litas. the prices of cross-border and domestic payments in national currency are still different in our countries. this is partly because we are not a member of the euro area. i think the first step, and one of the steps towards the euro area, would be for us, the non-euro area members, to start applying this principle to national currencies. another important point is that the introduction of this regulation on cross-border payments opens the way to modernise the european banking sector by giving banks a transitional period of three years to prepare a new business model that would make settlements more efficient. this is very important, we talk a lot about innovation, new initiatives, modernization. this document is the precondition for that. this is very important, we talk a lot about innovation, new initiatives, modernization. this document is the precondition for that.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their very constructive contributions to the debate tonight. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission can accept many amendments, in full, in part or in principle. these amendments include proposals to improve the confidentiality of data on establishments and staff working with animals. it also includes proposals for a regular review of the use of nonhuman primates at european union level. concerns were also expressed about the criteria for classifying severity. i am able to inform you that before the summer holidays the commission will convene a working party of experts to consider the definition of appropriate criteria for use in the european union. the balance between the needs of industry and the promotion of research on the one hand and animal welfare on the other, which is the result of extensive consultation with the parties directly concerned, must be safeguarded. the restrictions on the use of nonhuman primates and the principle of licensing and independent ethical review of all research which are key elements of this proposal should therefore be maintained. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster, and i would like to ask the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. finally, mr president, i should like to say that, apart from this very important proposal, in which we must maintain a balance between the need for scientific research and the improvement of human health, while using methods which are not cruel to animals, i should like to say that the commission, throughout my time as commissioner, has taken a number of measures to protect animals. i would remind you of the discussion we had earlier on seals, and also of the very drastic measures and the reaction we have on whaling, as well as the issues relating to unsustainable hunting, particularly in the spring season, and the measures we have taken for the first time as a commission with safeguard measures to prevent precisely such cases. mr president, i really cannot see how our culture today can tolerate practices such as fox hunting or bullfighting or cockfighting.
in writing. in the draft report, the commission strongly supports an approach that takes greater account of the welfare of animals in scientific experiments. this shows the commission's commitment to the ultimate goal of the abolition of animal testing. the european union should work towards this objective. the european parliament has made clear its belief that much more needs to be done to achieve the ultimate goal of the abolition of the use of animals in scientific experiments. but we cannot completely abandon animal testing at this point, even though that is our ultimate goal. there are still significant gaps in the development of alternative methods that do not involve animal testing. in such circumstances, it would be unwise and even detrimental to human health to set a date from which animal testing or certain categories of animal testing, such as non-human primates, would no longer be permitted. this view is supported by the results of public opinion polls, which we cannot ignore.
in writing. − standards in the poultry trade are designed to ensure price stability in the market for this sector, to facilitate trade in these products and to ensure consumer safety and high food quality standards. it is necessary to review the marketing standards for poultrymeat in the light of technological developments and to include poultrymeat semi-finished products, as consumer habits have changed since the 1990s. i support the proposal to tighten up the principle that fresh poultry cannot be frozen before being sold, and to extend it to poultrymeat semi-finished products and products.
in writing. − the need to achieve cleaner air has been recognised for several decades action has been taken at member state and eu level, including through international conventions. improving our air quality remains the most important challenge to be met. the problem of air pollution can only be solved in the long term and only within the european framework, in particular by taking more active measures across borders. the commission proposal is necessary to further reduce emissions of lng and to improve air quality and public welfare at regional and local level, to successfully deploy tier ii ghg systems worldwide and to improve the technology's capacity to reduce fuel vapour emissions by 95%.
in writing. − transparency is a key principle of the european union. this is clearly stated in article 255 of the treaty establishing the european community: 'every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state shall have the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents'. regulation no 1049/2001, currently in force, was an important step towards greater publicity. in the six years since its implementation, it has contributed to the creation of a more transparent administrative culture in the european institutions. in my view, by ensuring openness, the institutions gain greater legitimacy in the eyes of european citizens thus encouraging citizens' confidence in the institutions.
in writing. - i am firmly convinced that seal hunting should be banned, with some exceptions for local communities. we should not ignore the fact that opinion polls in various eu member states show that the vast majority of eu citizens are opposed to large-scale commercial seal hunting and its methods. in addition, a clear majority of citizens support a total ban on the trade in seal products.
on 9 may 1950, robert schuman proposed the so-called schuman plan, which laid the foundations for economic cooperation between european countries. the great european politicians and thinkers understood perfectly well that the unifying force of europe is a common solution to economic problems. these decisions were based on cross-border financial and economic groups that created added value and jobs. the member states have disrupted the work of those european groups in implementing their national economic recovery plans, and we are facing many problems, which will become even more serious if we fail to restore economic policy coordination at european union level. i very much hope that the new european leaders will include people like robert schuman, jean monnet, konrad adenauer, who will continue to see their national interests.
for the alde group ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you all very sincerely on a document that we can truly call a document for the people of europe. europeans often ask: what do we do here in the european parliament, what have we done for them? i think this is one of those documents which is addressed to the individual, and i therefore congratulate all my colleagues, mr stauner and the commission, and the council, on what i believe was a successful agreement at first reading. and this document will be adopted tomorrow, with great urgency, not only because it is important to the people, but also because it, this fund, is now dedicated to the crisis, in the event of a crisis, to support those people who have lost their jobs. the question is one. is this document really for the people and will the support reach the people? if you remember, commissioner, there was a great deal of debate in our committee that we, the alliance of liberals and democrats, would support this support for the individual, if it were not really for bureaucrats or other structures. i regret to say, after one year of experience, that in my country, as i see it, the globalisation fund is used in the same way as the social fund, i.e. for retraining. and it's hardly used, or not used at all, for the other things that we've been looking at. so that money is available to the individual, so that the individual is supported, not by the administration, not by the job market, not by the training centers, which themselves take the money, train people, but the individual does not find a job afterwards. i would like to draw your attention, mr commissioner, to the fact that this regulation is working correctly in the member states. is this regulation correctly transposed into national law? because often the law does not allow for the implementation of the regulation. you say that this is a matter for the governments of the member states, i say no! we are elected by the people, not representatives of our governments. we are here to defend the interests of european citizens, to defend the interests of our people and to make sure that this money goes to the people and not to the bureaucrats.
the notifier. − the commission has presented a very important additional energy package to the draft recovery plan, which is particularly important because the economic crisis is also a challenge for european energy. the package consists of three parts: gas and electricity infrastructure and particularly important electricity and gas interconnection projects. we know that this is a very sensitive and old problem and that financing interconnection projects in a crisis would greatly accelerate regional energy development and interregional cooperation and strengthen the creation of a common european energy market. part two of the package, i.e. offshore wind projects, and part three, i.e. carbon capture and storage projects, which assess climate change and renewable energy needs, because i believe that in the context of a fundamental economic crisis, the european energy sector needs to change structurally and systematically. it is indeed a very important moment to assess the situation and to take a fresh look at many of the energy problems. i think this package, these three programmes, would greatly strengthen european energy, and would have an impact on other sectors, and would greatly contribute to economic recovery in europe. i believe that the value of this package of 3.9 billion is a significant amount which would help to solve the very urgent problem of european energy security. in addition to the consequences of the energy crisis, the socioeconomic consequences, there is and remains a high political risk of problems with the supply of gas to individual european countries. and that risk remains high. the financing of joint projects would significantly strengthen europe's position and provide additional guarantees of supply. i would like to say that the european parliament, when it was discussing this document, proposed that the package should include the following. first, parliament focused on reallocating financial resources to potentially unused projects. as the proposal sets very tight deadlines for project development and uptake, we believe that if money is not used, it should be reallocated to projects that focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy. in a very short time, a tripartite dialogue took place and we were able to reach an agreement with the council. the council took parliament's proposals into account and incorporated them into this package. i am very pleased about this and would like to thank the council representatives, the czech presidency and commissioner a. priebalgs for the very close and good cooperation. in fact, in a very short time, we have achieved a good result.
i would like to talk about the macroeconomic impact of this package. we often say that we need to solve the problems of banks and give banks more liquidity, more money. this package is important in that it adds to the liquidity of our common market. as the crisis has led to capital outflows and inflows - natural processes of economic development - business activities in many countries have been hampered by a lack of working capital. this package is not needed as a grant or aid. it is necessary to support our single european market, our integration, which we have been building for many years.
the notifier. - thank you to all my colleagues for your support. this debate has shown that the package is very important and we simply must not forget how difficult it was for the commission to draft it and to get this agreement adopted. i think we should appreciate that in a very short time the member states have been able to agree, and this document is in parliament and will be voted on. it was very difficult, i think, to achieve a geographical balance in the financing of these projects and to assess the measures of recovery (the extent to which they will affect macroeconomic processes and individual sectors) and to use them to finance projects in the various energy sub-sectors. this is the composition we have today, and i think it should work, and i was very pleased to hear commissioner piebalgs mention today that calls for proposals should be launched as early as may. this shows that we are responding quickly enough, in full awareness of the sensitivity of the issue. and i think this package is very important in the sense that the economic crisis in the european union is slowing down the investment process very much, and this package will be a very good impulse and signal for both the member states and the energy companies to continue investing in order to achieve our strategic energy objectives in the european union. i thank you all again for your support and i urge you to vote and support this package.
i also want to thank my colleagues for five wonderful years of cooperation, but i must say that there are still some unresolved issues for the next term. in particular, this directive does not address the question of how to assess the activities of banks. the risk-based approach has not worked and we probably need to think about a different approach, perhaps a performance-based approach. another thing we didn't answer was, "who's going to pay?" what country's taxpayers would risk their money if a large european group were to have problems? until this question is answered - whether a dedicated fund will be set up at european level, or whether different countries will contribute to the pooling of the fund - we cannot say that we have a strong and well-prepared regulation of the financial sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr eugenio maldeikis on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on eu financial support for energy projects. i am pleased that the ep voted overwhelmingly (526 votes) in favour of this document. i want to stress once again the importance of our decision. my country, lithuania, like latvia, estonia and poland, which have been part of the european union for five years now in political and economic terms, has always been and remains an island in terms of energy, with no bridges linking it to the community's energy market. in a resolution adopted today, the european parliament has allocated €175 million for the construction of an energy bridge linking lithuania and sweden. the project will finally connect the energy markets of the countries of our region, which joined the eu in 2004, with those of the scandinavian countries and, consequently, with the eu market. it's a great project, a good start, and i want to thank all the colleagues who voted for it.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to begin by thanking you for this opportunity to take stock of the durban review conference, which i know has been followed closely by many members here today. the preparatory process leading to the conference was particularly complex, with a significant number of countries having serious misgivings about the process in the light of what happened in 2001. because of their concerns that the conference would be used as a platform for expressions of hatred and intolerance in its most extreme form, several member states, including my own, decided to withdraw from the conference. these concerns were confirmed by the intervention of one member of the un at the very beginning of the conference. not only did we find this totally unacceptable, but it was directly contrary to the very spirit and purpose of the conference. it is unfortunate, although perhaps inevitable, that this incident and the subsequent walk-out of all member states as well as other un members, made the news headlines, overshadowing the consensual adoption of the outcome document. at the same time, i think that the very constructive and solid eu contribution through the preparatory phase of the conference should be fully acknowledged. this was particularly the case in relation to the drafting of the outcome document, in which the eu played a critical role. despite the distractions to which i have referred, the fact that the final outcome document of the conference respects all the eu red lines represents a considerable achievement. the outcome document fully respects the existing human rights framework, particularly with regard to freedom of expression, and complies with many of our demands, such as the need to avoid any reference to the defamation of religions and to refrain from any singling-out of israel. in addition, the paragraph on remembering the holocaust was maintained in the text. we now need to reflect on the implications for the eu of both the conference itself and the outcome document. we will need, in particular, to define how we support implementation of the commitments which have been undertaken. the council remains extremely concerned by the phenomena of racism and xenophobia, which we consider to be among our most important human rights challenges today. i know that this parliament fully shares these concerns and that you have been instrumental in helping create much of the legislative basis and the practical tools to help combat this scourge. fighting racism and xenophobia is an ongoing process which requires both political will and practical measures, not least in the area of education. there is also a continuing need to enhance dialogue and mutual understanding and to promote tolerance. whilst there are signs that the eu’s anti-discrimination legislation is having a positive impact, the overall global progress in the fight against these phenomena remains regrettably slow. in fact the trend in a number of countries is even negative. we have seen cases where the current economic crisis is starting to fuel racist and xenophobic intolerance across the world. against the background of the economic crisis, strong anti-racism policies are more important than ever. both within europe and more widely, we are facing an upsurge in violent attacks targeting migrants, refugees and asylum-seekers, as well as minorities such as the roma. the eu has a strong acquis on the fight against racism and xenophobia. both these phenomena are incompatible with the principles upon which the eu is founded. the eu has repeatedly rejected and condemned all manifestations of racism and will continue to do so. the eu, within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the treaties, will continue to tackle racism and xenophobia, both within the union itself and in the context of our external actions. internally, we have adopted legislation prohibiting direct and indirect discrimination, on the basis of racial or ethnic origin, at work, education and with regard to access to goods and services. legislation also prohibits discrimination on other grounds, including religion, age, sexual orientation and disabilities, particularly in the workplace. the eu has also adopted legislation to ban hate speech from tv channels, as well as to criminalise ‘publicly inciting to violence or hatred directed against a group of persons or a member of such a group defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin’. the same piece of legislation makes it a crime to publicly condone, deny or grossly trivialise crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. externally the eu regularly raises racism and xenophobia issues in its bilateral political and human rights dialogues with third countries such as russia and china. we have also ensured that racism and xenophobia are mainstreamed into our cooperation strategies such as the european neighbourhood policy action plans. much is happening within various multilateral fora. within the osce framework, member states coordinate their work so as to ensure that the commitments made by the 56 osce participating states in this area are respected and implemented. this is also the case within the council of europe and within the wider un framework. these examples demonstrate our collective commitment to work on this issue both internally and more widely with partners worldwide. the durban review conference was part of those wider efforts. it was not easy and quite clearly was marred by those who thought to deviate the results of the conference for their own narrow political ends. but for all that, we should welcome the fact that, in the end, it has focused attention both on the continuing need to tackle racism and xenophobia and on the commitment which we have, and which is shared by very many others, to eradicating this scourge.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate. the european commission has followed closely the preparations for the durban conference and the search for a common position of the european union on participation in that conference. we have taken account of the call made by parliament - by your parliament - which called on the european union to take an active part in the discussions on the review of the durban conference in the context of the resolution on the development of the united nations human rights council - and in particular the role of the union - a resolution which you adopted on 19 january. as you know, five member states have withdrawn from this conference. the commission decided to confirm its participation as an observer, as it shared the view of the majority of member states that the european union's red lines were preserved in the conference document. the final compromise document adopted is not an ideal text, but it does not contain any elements of anti-semitic defamation, defamation of specific countries or regions of the world, or defamation of religions. the consensus of 182 un member states on the final document confirms the international community's commitment to combating racism and discrimination. this is a response to the deplorable attempts by some to use the conference for anti-semitic purposes, attempts to which the european commission has reacted strongly. in any event, the events of the review conference in no way diminish the commission's long-term commitment to do everything in its power to combat manifestations of racism and xenophobia of all kinds. the commission remains committed to pursuing its policies to combat racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism inside or outside the european union to the full extent of the powers conferred on it by the treaties. i must say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that i will personally be following closely the implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia by the member states. i will be personally involved in monitoring the transposition of this framework decision, and i would like to stress that our agency for fundamental rights is also a means for us, from now on, to observe all these phenomena which require great firmness on our part. it is true that we can hope that the next un conference on racism will no longer be tainted by intolerable speeches, which are real incitements to hatred and racism. it is also true, however, that the final compromise of the conference gives hope of better days.
madam president, i want to stress once again that the outcome document of the durban review conference was adopted by consensus. even though the text is not ideal, representing the result of complex negotiations, as far as the new position is concerned my understanding is that it is important to continue discussion of the new document and of often disputed issues such as racial discrimination, xenophobia, stigmatisation and stereotyping of people based on their religion or belief. we should engage in further discussion in a non-confrontational manner, but with a strong reaction to unacceptable statements and attempts to use the durban process for the expression of racist ideology. my firm belief is that, without a strong position of the european union on protecting human rights and fighting against racism and xenophobia, the durban process might take a wrong direction.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to express the appreciation of the council for the work of the rapporteur, mr obiols i germà, and parliament’s subcommittee on human rights. mr obiols i germà, you have been a tireless and valuable partner in our collective work on human rights issues throughout this parliamentary term. your report offers us an opportunity to scrutinise the union’s overall policy in the field of human rights. we are very well aware of the challenges we continue to face in this area. the strengthening of relations between the eu institutions helps us face these challenges together. the report provides us with a valuable tool to look back at what has been achieved. the european parliament report underlines the relevance of the european union annual report on human rights. our attempt to make the report more interesting, readable and useful has been partly successful, but there is clearly room for further improvement. we will continue to work on this. your report will certainly help us in our reflections on how to increase coherence generally across the eu’s human rights policies. discussions are under way on this issue and i would like to assure you that, whatever the outcome of these discussions, we will make every effort to bring greater visibility to our work on human rights issues. this could be through more effective use of web sources or by better publicising the annual report. you have also underlined that more attention needs to be given to the role of the un in this area. we have continued to undertake coordinated efforts in international fora, most particularly the un human rights council, as recommended in the andrikienė report, as well as at the third committee of the un general assembly. efforts are being made to improve our efforts at outreach in an increasingly difficult environment. this is not easy, but i would like to draw your attention to a number of successes. we have worked hard to ensure that the un human rights council gains greater credibility. 2009 can be regarded as a key test year for the functioning of the human rights council. the eu played an active role at the 10th session of the human rights council and secured the adoption of a number of important initiatives, for example the extension of mandates on burma/myanmar and the dprk and the eu-grulac resolution on the rights of the child. more disappointingly, we failed to reintroduce the mandate of an independent expert on the drc. in the general assembly, the role of the third committee in protecting and promoting human rights has been confirmed, and the eu took an active role at the 63rd session of the un general assembly. this has led to positive results, in particular the follow-up resolution on the death penalty. a significant part of your report is dedicated to this issue. we have raised it constantly, including at the highest level, with partners who share our views, in order to support the global trend towards abolition. these efforts will continue. let me now say a few words on the eu guidelines. following revision of the european union human rights guidelines and the adoption of new guidelines on violence against women, the focus is now on effective implementation. as part of this, the presidency put forward some proposals, such as arranging for guidance notes to be sent to heads of missions and commission delegations. we also intend to raise these issues in our dialogues and consultations with third countries. the report draws attention to the issue of women’s rights, and i know that mr obiols i germà pays particular attention to this issue. this is one of our top priorities. we are working on the implementation of the un council resolution 1325, which we are using as a guiding principle for esdp operations and which has allowed us to develop a framework for gender mainstreaming. on human rights defenders, the eu will continue to cooperate with civil society organisations. work at official level within the council on the possibility of expanding the issuing of visas for human rights defenders is continuing. in dialogues with third countries, freedom of expression and raising individual cases will remain central to our agenda. as far as dialogues and consultations with third countries are concerned, the eu will make every effort to ensure that these instruments become ever more effective tools for the implementation of our human rights policy. we have in particular agreed to hold local dialogues with five latin american countries – brazil, colombia, argentina, chile and mexico – and will continue to establish dialogues with the remaining central asian countries. i would like to say a few words about the 27th eu-china human rights dialogue to take place on 14 may in prague. it is important to ensure that our dialogues are as productive as possible and that they deliver substantive results. the eu-china human rights dialogue is the longest-standing dialogue. it needs to be able to adapt and reflect progress made in the way we address human rights issues. both of our institutions are following closely developments in china. various events scheduled throughout this year will enable us to maintain a close channel of communication with our chinese counterparts. this dialogue is valuable. we look forward to seeing increasingly tangible results from these talks. to conclude, i would like to underline that promotion of and respect for human rights across the world is one of our main priorities in external policy. through the use of démarches and statements, and through our various political dialogues and crisis management operations, the eu is working for improved respect for human rights worldwide. to achieve results, we have to adopt a consistent approach. this parliament has been at the forefront in pushing for greater consistency at all levels and we very much welcome this. i am very grateful in general for the work of this parliament and its support on human rights issues. the value of the sakharov prize as an instrument for the promotion of our shared values is widely recognised. we will continue to review the extent to which the instruments of human rights clauses, sanctions and dialogue – all of which have been scrutinised extensively by this parliament – can play an effective role as part of our overall external policy, whilst ensuring the highest standards of respect for human rights.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i take part in this debate in plenary on your report, mr obiols i germà. i am replacing my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, who was selected in prague to attend the summit of the european union and canada. i would first like to thank mr obiols i germà for the quality of his work. i thank you for giving your report a positive tone which reflects the efforts made over the years by the commission and the council to implement parliament's recommendations. whether in human rights dialogues or in political dialogues in international fora, the institutions have made efforts to make progress in order to give the european union the image of a fervent and credible ambassador for the protection and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. it is true that last year was marked by the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which all the european institutions commemorated together. the year 2008 also allowed the commission to focus on two priorities, namely women and children, and also fostered an interinstitutional approach. we have tried to implement several general recommendations from previous reports which are very well restated in the report we are considering today. we have agreed to focus our action on certain countries in relation to the implementation of the guidelines on the rights of the child, and we have mobilised the embassies of the member states of the european union and the delegations of the european community to monitor these actions. we have thus taken the lead in the fight against one of the worst forms of violation of human and children's rights, namely the recruitment of child soldiers and the suffering inflicted on children in armed conflicts. let me give a few examples. the union adopted the new guidelines on the rights of the child on 10 december 2007. in the first phase of implementation, it will therefore focus on violence against children. we are launching a pilot programme, which is targeting ten countries on different continents. these countries were chosen because their governments are already committed to the fight against violence against children, but also because their governments need additional international assistance to continue this fight against violence against children. in june 2008, the council of the union revised the guidelines on children in armed conflict to address more effectively and comprehensively the short, medium and long-term effects of armed conflict on children. the commission communication provided for a special place for children in the european union's external action and advocated a coherent approach to advancing children's rights and improving the situation of children worldwide. the communication was the subject of a very wide consultation. it has paid particular attention to non-governmental organisations. on the basis of that communication and the related action plan, the council of the european union adopted conclusions in may 2008 to strengthen the union's external policy on the rights of the child. in 2009, we are continuing on this path with the following initiatives. in june, the commission will organise the european forum on the rights of the child in brussels, which will focus specifically on child labour. we will endeavour to bring all stakeholders together. personally, i attach great importance to this forum. the future swedish presidency and the commission will organise an ngo forum in stockholm in july, which will be specifically focused on violence against children. finally, this autumn we will publish a report on the measures taken by the union to combat child labour, including trade-related measures. this is a year which should normally have seen the european union's commitment to children make further progress. i shall now turn to the subject of women's rights. in recent months, the european union has strengthened its external policy on women's rights. the new guidelines on violence against women and combating all forms of discrimination against women provide for a number of actions. these actions will benefit from the commitment and support of union missions and commission delegations. i would like to recall the recent adoption by the foreign ministers of the european union of the union's comprehensive approach to the implementation of un security council resolutions 1325 and 1820. it is also worth recalling the positive response of the un secretary-general to the appeal launched jointly in 2008 by ms benita ferrero-waldner and 40 women in leading positions at international level. the appeal called for the united nations to convene a ministerial conference to review resolution 1325. this ministerial conference is now scheduled for 2010. we will of course work with the swedish presidency in preparing the positions we will have to take for the revision of this resolution. there are other things to be said, mr president, but i would like to stress once again that the strengthening of european policy on human rights and democracy requires, of course, very strong synergy between the institutions. the commission is prepared to act in this respect. it wants to establish close cooperation so that our three institutions can really strengthen each other. in this respect, the european parliament can play a vital role, since it is by definition and vocation best placed to be the spokesman for the oppressed and the suffering. that is what i wanted to say after the president's speech, and i shall now listen carefully to what the members have to say.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank our colleague, raimon obiols, for his report and resolution. the draft of the resolution we voted on in the foreign affairs committee was balanced. compromises have been reached. a long list of important issues on human rights are covered by the report and i hope that the resolution will be voted tomorrow with a big majority in favour. having said this, i would like to highlight some issues and point out a very controversial amendment tabled before the plenary session. i speak about the amendment tabled by our alde colleagues. as we all agree that our union is based on values, including christian values, how can anyone imagine that this parliament will finish its term condemning the pope, benedict xvi, for his declarations? my position is that the wording used by the signatories of the amendment is absolutely unacceptable and should be declined. human rights defenders, i suggest that in the resolution we, the european parliament, should reiterate our demand that all winners of the sakharov prize and, in particular, aung san suu kyi, oswalda payá sardiñas, the cuban damas de blanco and hu jia be given access to the european institutions. we regret the fact that none of them were allowed to participate in the 20th anniversary ceremony of the sakharov prize. last but not least is the fight against terrorism and human rights. i suggest that the european parliament call on the european union and its member states to carry out the fight against terrorism in full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms as one of the main priorities of the union and a key element of its external actions. mentioning specific names in our resolution would be counterproductive.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, on the first question concerning the unblocking of the negotiating process. as i said in my opening remarks, one of the items at the last meeting of the general affairs and external relations council was devoted to this very issue. we think and we are convinced that during the current presidency there will be progress, an agreement that will really allow the negotiating chapters that are already ready to be concluded to be closed. moving forward with this deadlocked situation has been one of the great efforts of this presidency from the very beginning. the way out is being outlined, and we hope that it will be acceptable to all concerned, and that it will allow the negotiations to continue. as regards the question of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), it should be said that at this stage we do not anticipate that anything like a date or other clarification could be reached during the current presidency. we do not expect visa liberalisation to take place during the first half of this year, but we believe that by the end of this year or the beginning of next year, a situation will arise where citizens of a number of western balkan countries that are close to or meet the benchmarks will be able to travel from certain western balkan countries to the european union without a visa. it has been emphasised on several occasions that the rapprochement of the western balkan countries with the european union is one of the priorities of our presidency. we are making a great effort and in the two months that remain, we want to make the same, if not greater, effort.
president-in-office of the council. − as the honourable parliamentarian has said very well the joint report on social protection and social inclusion, which was submitted to the european council meeting on 19-20 march, stresses the need for appropriate social policies, not only to mitigate the adverse social impact on the most vulnerable but also to cushion the impact of the crisis on the economy as a whole. this implies adjusting benefits, where needed, to safeguard appropriate support for recipients. in particular comprehensive active inclusion strategies that combine and balance measures and inclusive labour market access to quality services and adequate minimum incomes need to be implemented. a boost must be given to member states’ efforts to implement comprehensive strategies against poverty and social exclusion of children, including accessible and affordable quality childcare. sustained work is required to tackle homelessness as an extremely serious form of exclusion, to promote the social inclusion of migrants and to address, for example, the multiple disadvantages the roma people are facing and their vulnerability to social exclusion. vigilance is also needed as new risk groups, among them young workers and labour market entrants, as well as new risks, may emerge. as regards the specific situation of older people, ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities, the council has already adopted legislation aiming to protect these and other vulnerable groups from discrimination. council directive 2000/78/ec establishes a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation as regards employment and occupation. council directive 2000/43/ec implements the principle of equal treatment between persons, irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, in a wide number of areas including employment, self-employment, vocational training, social security, education and access to goods and services, including housing. in addition, the council is currently examining a new commission proposal that aims to extend the protection against discrimination even further. the proposal for a council directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation would extend the protection against discrimination based on religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation to areas beyond employment. on 2 april 2009 the european parliament voted in favour of the commission’s proposal under the consultation procedure, and discussions on the draft directive are ongoing in the council. allow me also to recall that last spring the council and parliament successfully negotiated a first-reading agreement on the commission’s proposal to establish a european year for combating poverty and social exclusion in 2010. at the time, few of us could have guessed the scale of the coming economic crisis. however, with the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the commission, council and parliament were absolutely right to focus on the problems of poverty and social exclusion. finally the council is also examining a set of draft conclusions on equal opportunities for women and men of the age 50-plus generation, tabled by the czech presidency. it is expected that these conclusions will be adopted by the council in june. this will be another opportunity for the council to reaffirm its commitment to ensuring that our older citizens can live active lives and age with dignity. within the framework of the current eu presidency, the conference on social services entitled ‘social services: a tool for mobilising the workforce and strengthening social cohesion’ was held in prague in april this year. the conference stressed the importance of social services for active inclusion of people endangered by social exclusion and excluded from the labour market. the social services sector, due to economic and demographic changes on the one hand, becomes the important field of new job opportunities, in particular for women and older workers and, on the other hand, it helps the social services users themselves to hold down their jobs. the conference introduced basic starting points for further all-european discussions on the role of social services in society. although the ways of providing social services, sharing competences and the conception of financial sustainability are different in eu member states, there was a good deal of consensus among the speakers at the conference on the role and goals of social services. in the conference conclusions, which will be further elaborated and then negotiated with the aim of adoption by the epsco council in june, the role of social services as an essential instrument for social policies is stressed. the necessity of the integrated manner in conceiving and delivering social services and taking into account individual needs of clients is underlined as well. the important role of public authorities in guaranteeing quality, access and sustainability of social services is mentioned and it is stated that investing in social services, in particular during the present financial and economic crisis, pays and can strengthen the growth potential and the cohesion of economies and societies. the importance of informal care is pointed out and so-called ‘shared care’, a combination of both formal and informal care, seems to be optimum and most effective. in the conference conclusions, the importance of the promotion of a system of lifelong training and capacity-building for assuring the quality of services is mentioned. last but not least, the protection of rights, dignity and special needs of social services users is emphasised.
i'd like to thank you for your detailed answer, too. the problem of social exclusion is very wide, multifaceted. and i think that for a lot of people, it's just a matter of survival. does the council not intend to increase food aid? food aid is also very important now that the crisis has deepened and i think that needs to be given more attention.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i fully support what has been said here and i am convinced that the forthcoming summit, the so-called jobs summit in prague, will be another moment that will generate and bring forward certain initiatives to which the june european council will be able to return and which will be directed precisely to what we have been talking about, i.e. the questions of the impact of the economic and financial crisis on employment.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the presidency, building on the work carried out by the french presidency, is pursuing actively discussions on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border health care. the presidency’s objective is to find solutions that will strike the right balance between the rights of the patients in cross-border health care and the responsibilities of the member states for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. as the presidency stated during the plenary debate of 23 april 2009, patients travelling to other member states should receive full information and high-quality health care. but it is also important to make sure that the directive fulfils the principles of clarity, legal certainty and subsidiarity. discussions are still ongoing in the council, so it is impossible to predict whether a political agreement can be reached under the current czech presidency. however, the current discussions in the council suggest that a system of prior authorisation is likely to be limited to specific types of health care. it will be an option for member states, which they may or may not use. this possibility was recognised by the european court of justice under certain conditions. the council is also considering accompanying any system of prior authorisation with measures aimed at transparency and full information of the patients about their rights related to receiving cross-border health care. on the other hand, the directive sets a minimum level of what the member states have to guarantee to their patients as regards the reimbursement of the costs of cross-border health care. it is the same amount which would be incurred for the same treatment in their home member state. nothing prevents member states from providing their patients who receive cross-border health care with a more advantageous form of reimbursement, even in advance. however, it depends on the member states’ national policy. nevertheless, in cases where the person really needs to receive planned treatment in another member state and there are objective medical reasons for that, there is already in existence regulation (ec) 883/2004, under which the patient will receive health care without actually bearing costs himself. according to the report voted in parliament’s plenary on 24 april 2009, the european parliament has also recognised the prior authorisation system as a planning and management tool if it is transparent, predictable, non-discriminatory and subject to clear information for patients. the council will study all the amendments with care and will consider how to take account of them in its common position in order to reach an agreement in second reading.
thank you again for your detailed and, i would say, hopeful answer. and it's great that they're equalising, though, the conditions for getting medical care at home and abroad. but, unfortunately, a lot of it will depend on the size of your wallet. and those patients who can't make the difference between the cost at home and abroad will not be able to benefit much. i'd like to ask. however, the czech republic is a new country after taking over the presidency from france. were there any differences in the way the new and old member states approached this problem?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that the lisbon treaty gives the european union greater scope for taking the initiative in setting development coordination policies, for better coordinating donors, for distributing work and for delivering aid more efficiently. but it also means that the eu institutions, including parliament, have a greater responsibility. successful implementation of development cooperation policy requires an appropriate administrative structure, removing the existing inconsistency in the structure and competence of the directorates-general in the commission in terms of policy and budget, by transferring all competence to the directorate-general for development cooperation. since the normal procedure will apply to development cooperation policy, it is necessary to define very specifically the competence of the european parliament's development cooperation committee. the lisbon treaty will contribute to the better implementation of development cooperation policy objectives with a view to reducing and eventually eradicating poverty in the world.
i think that all of us who attended this evening's meeting will remember it for a long time and will have something to tell our children and grandchildren. well, even tonight we all feel that the ship of europe is now being tossed by the storms of crisis. it is clear that the engine of this vessel, the mechanism of the contracts, is too weak and needs to be replaced immediately. the lisbon treaty would be the stronger engine that is needed in a crisis. i therefore support the reports under consideration and i agree with the views of those colleagues who stress that it is not very democratic when one referendum stone can overturn the whole european transport, when one head of state can pretend that he is the only one stepping on the foot and the opinion of 26 states is of no importance to him. i think that irish voters will draw conclusions from what is happening in europe and around the world.
ladies and gentlemen, i have been working for the committee on economic and monetary affairs for five years. however, in my own country of lithuania, i have to emphasise the importance of the programmes you are considering for the country's economy and also for the culture of a small country. our film industry went through a rough patch a few years ago. it was cooperation with third countries that helped it to get back on its feet. during that time, the lithuanian film industry has strengthened, created an economic base and now makes a significant contribution to job creation. on the other hand, it has provided a medium for talented directors to emerge, and lithuanian film directors are now receiving international awards and are widely known in the world and europe. i would therefore like to stress that the european union should pay close attention to the implementation of such programmes, as they contribute to the prosperity of countries and cultures.
i voted in favour of the report and resolution by mr leinen for the following reasons. we are accustomed to saying that the european parliament is the only institution of the european union directly elected by the people. but the european parliament's powers as an elected institution have, in my view, been insufficient so far. i therefore believe that what we have adopted today, namely the new powers of parliament under the codecision procedure, the new powers of budgetary management, the new approval procedure, the new powers of supervision, are very important. and i believe that the treaty of lisbon will strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the european union, in particular by extending the powers of parliament through the codecision procedure.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in moldova because on 5 april i was one of the international observers who observed the parliamentary elections in that country. we have all witnessed the post-election unrest in moldova, but a month after the elections, i think it is particularly important to stress once again that the relations between the european union and the republic of moldova must be further developed and that we want this in order to achieve greater stability, security and prosperity in europe and to seek new dividing lines. however, all european union cooperation with moldova must be linked to a genuine and clear commitment by the moldovan authorities to democracy and respect for human rights.
i am really pleased with the result of the vote on the resolution on the report on the situation of human rights in the world in 2008. and especially because of the result that this parliament has demonstrated in voting on the second amendment, which was about pope benedict xvi. i think that the language and the language and the vocabulary that was used in that amendment is totally unacceptable, and i can hardly imagine a situation where this parliament could end its term by adopting a statement condemning pope benedict xvi for his statements on the teaching of the church. i therefore welcome the adoption by parliament last year of a document, an important document on the human situation in the world, which highlights the most important problems: the death penalty, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, the situation of human rights defenders, the situation of women's and children's rights and many other issues.
for the ppe-de group we are talking about roxana saberi, an american-iranian journalist who has worked for abc radio, bbc, south african television. she was convicted of espionage, sentenced to eight years in prison, and went on hunger strike. on 1 may, he was transferred to the prison hospital in a very frail condition. we know she was denied access to a lawyer for five weeks. her trial was neither fair nor transparent. the bbc reported yesterday that the appeal of roxana saberi will be heard by the court of appeal on 12 may, which is next week, but that it will again be heard in closed session. we condemn the unjustified sentence handed down by the revolutionary court of iran to roxana saberi. and i also think it is very important to call again on the iranian authorities to abide by all the international human rights instruments that iran has ratified. in particular, the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights, which guarantee the right to a fair trial.
on behalf of the pse group on the last day of this term, on a beautiful spring day, one would hope that this subject, the subject of human rights violations, would someday be raised in our parliament, that we would not have to talk about it in this beautiful hall. but unfortunately, it's an illusion, and today, as always, the agenda is full of painful cases from all over the world. this is not the first time that iran has been brought up in the plenary. this time, we're concerned about the wrongful imprisonment of roxana saberi. she was arrested for a small crime, which is a crime in iran - buying wine - then accused of working as an unlicensed journalist, and then accused of being an american agent. the iranian authorities held a one-day closed trial without witnesses and without specific, publicly announced charges. this is not the first time that the iranian authorities have mentioned human rights, unlawful detention, and executions that violate international norms. the murder of dilara darabi, the arrest of journalist maryam malek and workers' rights defenders are just a few examples. it must be admitted that the fundamentalists in iran continue to stage political trials in order to further intimidate the free-thinking people. i regret that iran is thus continuing its own policy of isolation without taking advantage of the international community and the new us administration's initiative to normalize relations. i always say that dialogue and mutual understanding is better than confrontation, but in this case i propose to respond very strongly and firmly to this case and to demand an honest trial of the iranian regime with all international standards.
madam president, my proposal is that the words ‘iranian authorities’ at the beginning of paragraph 3 should be replaced by ‘appeals court at its hearing of 12 may’. paragraph 3 would then read: ‘urges the appeals court at its hearing of 12 may to release roxana saberi...’.
mr president, ‘violence’, ‘a high number of casualties’, ‘hundreds dead and wounded in china in the uprising in xinjiang province’: those were the alarming reports we received 10 days ago. in xinjiang, the internet was blocked completely, limiting communications into and out of the desert region. taking into account what happened in tibet last year, recent developments in eastern turkestan, also known as xinjiang, should be a wake-up call to the chinese government on its overall policies towards ethnic minorities in china. the message sent by the uighur people is that those policies have failed and that the chinese government has to understand this and look for the solution. the eight-million-strong uighur population in the region has long complained about the treatment they receive from the chinese central government and recently during the racist mob attacks the chinese government failed to protect the uighurs from perpetrators of violence. it has nothing to do with the war on terror, the controversial concept used by the chinese government as a justification for their repressive treatment of the uighurs in east turkestan. the fact that president hu jintao had to shorten his participation in the g8 summit in italy to return to china indicates that the chinese government realises that events in the province are not just an isolated incident. rather than seeking solutions through repression and crackdown, the chinese leadership needs positive action addressing the basic grievances of the uighur people, especially if china wants to show maturity and create a sincerely harmonious society. i fully support the eu position expressed by the president-in-office to urge restraint on all sides and call on the government of china to respect freedom of speech and information, as well as the right to peaceful protest.
for the efd group exactly after 2564 hours, the ignalina nuclear power plant reactor in lithuania will be shut down the only and last energy source of lithuania's independence. europe has already invested €200 million in the safety of this power plant. today, european countries will have to allocate another 800 million to close it. from a legal point of view, europe may be right to hold one country to its commitments, but is it right? is it fair to citizens of other countries? i don't think he did. the money to shut down the reactor will have to come from people who are suffering from the economic crisis. is it logical and right, when europe is in crisis, when gdp in lithuania has fallen by 22%, when unemployment has reached 15%, when winter is approaching, to close down a safe, i repeat again, safe nuclear power plant that can work? no, that's not right. on the basis of the word given, lithuania will fulfil the terms of the accession treaty, but it will be a huge sacrifice. after it, lithuania will have a much harder time overcoming the economic crisis. after this sacrifice, unemployment will increase even more, poverty will increase. tell me, dear ones, does europe need such a sacrifice today? do we not have somewhere to put 800 million euros today? i appeal to the conscience, to the economic logic and to the common sense of each of you to supplement the strategy we are discussing today with the provision that the ignalina nuclear power plant will operate until 2012, that is, until the end of safe operation. i would like, i hope, i believe that the european parliament, by supporting president buzse's political programme in the field of energy, i.e. the diversification of energy supplies, the development of nuclear energy in the national states, would take the necessary concrete steps. honey, we're 2,563 hours and 58 minutes from shutdown.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? let me begin by emphasizing that freedom of expression and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity are cornerstones of our democratic societies. our union is founded on a set of principles and values which all member states are expected to uphold. we cannot defend and fight for the respect of human rights in other countries if we cannot uphold the fundamental principles within the eu. fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression and the right not to be discriminated against, are recognised in article 6 of the treaty on european union and are also enshrined in articles 10 and 14 of the european convention for the protection of human rights. these principles are also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. there is legislation at community level which provides protection in this area. directive 2000/78/ec prohibits discrimination in employment on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. last year the commission put forward a proposal to extend this protection to additional areas. the council is currently discussing this proposal and parliament has given a favourable opinion. we welcome this initiative and hope that it can be adopted soon. this is the case for legislation at european level. at national level, member states may adopt national legislation in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms provided - i repeat: provided - that such legislation fully respects the primary and secondary law of the union and of the community which falls within the community's non-exclusive competence and is justified by the absence of legislation at union or community level. the current law adopted by the lithuanian parliament in july and the amendments to the criminal and administrative law currently under consideration are of great concern to the swedish presidency. however, the law has not yet entered into force, which is important to remember. from our perspective, a law that seeks to prohibit the promotion of a particular sexual orientation would violate fundamental values such as freedom of expression and the equal value of all people. the presidency has repeatedly made this clear in its contacts with the lithuanian government. as regards the more legal issues raised by the members in their questions here, it is important to point out that the council has no formal role. the compatibility of national legislation with the treaties is not a matter for the council. nor for the fundamental rights agency. it is the commission's responsibility to assess whether a member state is complying with its obligations under the treaties. it involves not only monitoring the correct transposition and implementation of union and community legislation, but also ensuring that primary law is fully respected at european level. as jacques barrot will no doubt say, the commission can initiate appropriate procedures if it considers that a member state is not complying with primary or secondary law. as regards article 13 of the treaty establishing the european community, the council would be deeply concerned if there were cases of discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, age or sexual orientation. however, a proposal from the commission is required for the council to start a discussion on whether discrimination exists and, if so, what action should be taken. similarly, under article 7 of the treaty, action by the council can only be taken if one third of the member states or the commission submit such a reasoned proposal. since the law has not yet entered into force, no such proposal has been put forward. i can assure members that the issue of discrimination against lgbt people is on the agenda of the swedish presidency. we will discuss this at the equality summit in stockholm on 16-17 november. we in the european parliament take these concerns very seriously. it is about respect for fundamental rights and human rights. but formally, it must be addressed within the legal and institutional framework. as the representative of the council, i have tried to answer the questions as accurately as possible and have also explained the limitations. i look forward to hearing the views of the commission representative on this matter.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the minister has very well explained the legal aspects of this problem. i would like to say that the commission has repeatedly expressed its firm condemnation of any manifestation of homophobia. this is a flagrant violation of human dignity. the commission reiterated this position to the european parliament on 23 april 2007, at the plenary session during which the resolution on homophobia in europe was adopted. in areas falling within the community's competence, the union, and also the member states, when implementing union law, are required to respect fundamental rights. these are binding principles of community law. the lithuanian draft law on the protection of minors and the harmful effects of public information falls to a large extent within the scope of community competence, as its content concerns the implementation of the directives on audiovisual services and on electronic commerce. the commission has therefore informed the lithuanian authorities, even before the adoption of the draft law, that certain provisions of the law would raise serious concerns as to their compatibility with fundamental rights and community law. despite this warning, it would appear that the current version of the law adopted on 14 july does not dispel the concerns expressed previously by the commission. in this context, the commission can only express reservations, and serious reservations, about the compatibility of this law with the principles of freedom of expression, the principle of non-discrimination, and with the rights of children, including their right to access information necessary for their development. the commission will not hesitate to take any appropriate measure to ensure that community law is respected, including, of course, fundamental rights. according to the information available to the commission, a working group has been set up in lithuania on the initiative of the president, mrs grybauskaite, to introduce further amendments to the law. these amendments should be tabled by the end of october. the commission will of course await the work of this commission and the content of the amendments before it can take a final decision on the law as it comes into force. i can only agree with the minister, mrs malmström, when she said that it was the commission's responsibility to monitor, and possibly propose sanctions and to punish, breaches of the rules of the european union and of fundamental rights a fortiori. that is the information i wanted to give you, showing that our position was extremely clear on the matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the law that is being criticised and debated, despite the fact that it will not enter into force until march, contains only one single line prohibiting the promotion of homosexuality to minors; that is the greatly troublesome part. the president of the republic of lithuania took the initiative by tabling clarifying amendments immediately. thus our resolution is practically knocking on an open door. what we should be doing is concentrating on parliament’s intention. the key words in the troublesome line about the promotion of homosexuality to minors are ‘promotion’ and ‘minors’ – not ‘homosexuality’, as some would have it. the possibility of direct promotion to minors has been dealt with by the adoption of a law. ‘promotion’ is a deliberate action going beyond the simple and necessary information currently provided by sexual education, which should include a clause of tolerance to homosexual appeal and love. the promotion of homosexuality to minors, if we open our eyes, may quite often mean significantly more – from encouraging them to try it, to the seduction of minors, even for homosexual prostitution. the media might benefit from such business, probably by disseminating such promotion to minors. dear colleagues, parents and grandparents, please now listen to your hearts. would you be in favour of opening up this whole area of challenges to your own offspring? (interjection from the floor)ok, that is the case for you. what if they are exposed to such special ‘promotion’ regularly and without restriction? it seems as though we are stumbling between two trees: the first, if someone likes tricky doctrine, is the right of children to be mentally abused, while the second is the right of children to be protected from abuse. let their self-determination come with maturity. my proposal is to support the positions recalling both the convention on, and the declaration of, the rights of the child, and to delete paragraph 1, which is irrelevant at the present time and therefore inappropriate for europe’s highest house.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the detrimental effects of public information struck human rights defenders and media people in lithuania and beyond as overly homophobic and profoundly undemocratic. please let me draw your attention to the fact that this law was vetoed by the former president of lithuania, valdas adamkus, but he was overruled by the lithuanian parliament. in addition, this law has been severely criticised by the current president of lithuania, dalia grybauskaitė. the law was assessed in vigorous terms by the lithuanian media, commentators, and civil liberties and human rights defenders, who stressed its homophobic substance along with its extremely dangerous political implications, such as censorship and self-censorship. this law has little, if anything, to do with the protection of children. instead it is against gay and lesbian citizens of the country. whatever the case, the equation of homosexuality with physical violence and necrophilia is morally repugnant and deeply disgraceful. still it is difficult to believe that the adoption of such a law is possible in an eu country at the beginning of the 21st century. personally i take this law as an unfortunate move and as a profound misunderstanding, to say the very least. changes to article 310 of the penal code and article 214 of the administrative code are being debated in lithuania’s parliament that will criminalise, with the threat of a fine, community work or imprisonment, anyone involved in the promotion of homosexuality in any public space. if this is not our slide to state-sponsored homophobia and criminalisation of public expression of our gay and lesbian citizens, what is it then? last but not least, this law is a disgrace, but even more so would be an attempt to obfuscate, trivialise and, in effect, justify it. this is to say that i strongly support the resolution.
i welcome the european parliament's initiative to start discussing the issue of the law on the protection of minors from the adverse effects of public information, which was adopted by the lithuanian right-wing forces. unfortunately, it is regrettable that the law was adopted without sufficient consideration and assessment of its compliance with international and european union law. the voice of ngos was not heard. in pursuit of the noble goal of protecting children's rights, a legal framework has actually been created to divide society, to restrict information, to discriminate against certain groups in society. the former president of the republic of lithuania vetoed the bill, the new president has formed a working group which will present the new bill to the parliament in this autumn session. i hope that lithuania will have sufficient political will to improve the law, especially since we have experience in adopting and implementing advanced legislation in this area. six years ago, the lithuanian social democrats pushed through the equal opportunities act, which banned any direct or indirect discrimination based on age, sexual orientation, disability, race or ethnicity in all areas of life. a similar draft directive is currently being discussed in the council of ministers. this european parliament resolution should encourage the lithuanian parliament to adopt a law that respects human rights and freedoms and that does not allow for any form of discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
for the first time in the history of the european parliament, the actions of the lithuanian parliament are being discussed in this honourable chamber, in an unfavourable context. whatever the innocence or goodwill of the authors and supporters of the proposed laws, they have certainly not brought europe into the 21st century. i think the overconfidence of the majority in the sejm in their own right has played its part: we are only above the sky, we do what we want, we do not care about international obligations. this reflection is a very serious reaction by the council and the commission, a warning signal to the lithuanian legislators that we must not go back, let alone to the middle ages, but act forward, drawing on the experience and traditions of the countries of the european union. that is why such a debate is necessary, and a resolution is necessary.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? both the council and the commission have taken note of this and we are following the matter closely. in all our contacts with turkey, we continue to raise the issue and the importance of good neighbourly relations. the next opportunity will be the troika of foreign ministers in november. i hope that incidents of the kind mentioned by the honourable member can be avoided. as regards the energy chapter, it is currently being examined in the various council configurations and is being discussed. it is a little too early to say what the outcome of this evaluation will be and as the honourable member knows, every step in this process requires unanimity in the council.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the eu has been closely following the situation of aung san suu kyi ever since she was imprisoned 20 years ago. the council has worked very actively and continuously on her behalf. on many occasions we have called on the burmese authorities to release her. in addition, during this period the council has taken a number of very concrete measures. i would like to mention some of them. in august, the eu immediately condemned the verdict against aung san suu kyi and the trial against her, which had no legal basis. we called on the burmese authorities to release her immediately and unconditionally. the council declared that the judicial proceedings against aung san suu kyi constituted a breach of national and international law. the eu high representative, javier solana, also represented aung san suu kyi at the asean ministerial and the subsequent asean-eu ministerial conference in july, which also included representatives of burma. at that meeting, strong demands were made by many of those present, including the united states, china, russia and several other countries, for the immediate release of aung san suu kyi and other political prisoners. the eu has also been very active through its special envoy for burma, piero fassino, in supporting the actions taken by the un and un special adviser ibrahim gambari, and also in consultations with key eu partners in asia. the burmese authorities have chosen to ignore the protests against the imprisonment and calls for the release of aung san suu kyi from a large number of countries and organisations, including the un secretary-general, the chairman of asean and several of the member states of asean, an organisation of which burma is actually a member. in the absence of a response from burma, the eu has responded with further targeted measures against those responsible for the conviction. we have added members of the judiciary and other persons involved in the case against aung san suu kyi to the list of persons subject to visa bans and asset freezes. we have extended the list of persons and entities subject to restrictive measures to include the freezing of assets of companies owned and controlled by members of the burmese regime or by persons associated with them. the response agreed by the council on 13 august is fully in line with the resolution adopted by the european parliament in october 2008. i can assure the honourable member that in addition to these specific measures, the eu will intensify its work within the international community and in particular with like-minded partners in asia in order to bring about the immediate and unconditional release of aung san suu kyi and other political prisoners. it is a fundamental first step in the process of national reconciliation required if the 2010 elections are to be seen as free, credible and fair.
president-in-office of the council. − i am very sorry. i do not think i can answer that question. i will have to come back to you on that. i am sorry.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the council attaches the utmost importance to relations between the eu and the united states. the transatlantic relationship is a cornerstone of the eu's external policy and is based on our shared values of democracy, human rights and a commitment to open and integrated economies. the new administration in the united states has given a new impetus to relations. we are determined to continue this cooperation. this is a time when concrete results are expected in transatlantic relations on both sides of the atlantic. i would like to stress that there are many areas where the eu is working closely with the united states to extend our strategic partnership and achieve results. we continue, of course, to have very close cooperation on a number of regional issues such as afghanistan, pakistan, iran, the middle east peace process, russia and the western balkans. we have regular cooperation on crisis management and i am very pleased that the united states is now participating in a civilian esdp mission, namely eulex in kosovo. we will have close cooperation on climate issues ahead of copenhagen at the end of the year. the united states' ambitions in this area have been substantially increased by the new administration. we welcome this and hope that they can present comparable targets for medium-term emission reductions as part of the agreement. we have also been working together on energy issues for a long time. we believe that this must now be taken to a higher level and we want to set up a special energy council for the eu and the united states. it can be a good forum for increased cooperation between us on energy security, markets, sustainability policy and research into new energy technologies. here very close cooperation is needed to restore confidence in the financial markets and to make them work. in the area of trade, the doha round must be completed in an ambitious manner by 2010 as it is essential to promote economic recovery and counteract protectionism. the united states is a key player here. we will of course discuss these issues at the g20 meeting next week. we have an interest on both sides in deepening cooperation on justice and home affairs and in increasing understanding of each other's regulatory and policy frameworks. the statement on the closure of guantánamo, which mentions the deepening of cooperation on justice and home affairs, is an important step in this context. on non-proliferation and disarmament, cooperation between the eu and the united states has been given new impetus and the obama administration has been very keen on this. washington and brussels are working together to ensure that significant progress is made on issues such as the npt review conference, the entry into force of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and the beginning of a resolution of the deadlock in the conference on disarmament, so that we have a treaty on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. there is a strong interest on both sides to strengthen transatlantic political dialogue and cooperation on development cooperation. the eu and the us are the world's largest donors and therefore have a common interest in improving development efforts. we are discussing how this can be done. the forthcoming eu-us summit is an excellent opportunity to discuss these and other relevant issues at the highest level. i am very proud that the swedish presidency has been given the opportunity to lead the eu at the summit. we are firmly convinced that the summit will promote transatlantic relations in a positive and constructive way.
president-in-office of the council. − this morning we had a debate on the preparations for g20. i know that there are different proposals discussed in the media but i must say that the eu is extremely well coordinated. we have had discussions with the finance ministers and tomorrow night there will be a dinner with heads of state and prime ministers to finalise the coordination in the light of the pittsburgh meeting. the eu stands united. we know what we want. we have a concrete proposal, and the fine tuning will be done tomorrow. so i am not really worried about that, and i am also very happy that, with the help of the commission and commissioner almunia, we have reached this very rare stage of strong unity within the european union. these are our priorities and our solutions that are being discussed and we will of course try to find cohesion on as many points as possible with the american administration and the other partners at the g20 meeting. on non-proliferation, we are very happy that this is again on the agenda. it has for been difficult for some time to raise it and we are very happy with president obama’s commitment to that. but it will take time. there are complicated technical issues and it will take time to pursue them. we are very process-oriented. we will try to move them forward but i cannot tell you how long this will take and what deadlines we have. but it is on the agenda. we are very committed to moving forward and i think this is also a wish that our american counterparts share.
madam president-in-office, i would like to ask you about the eu-usa-russia triangle. as we know, on the initiative of president obama the usa and russia started very important negotiations on nuclear disarmament. how, in your opinion, can the council and the european union facilitate, and have its input in, these negotiations which are so important for the future of mankind?
the nabucco pipeline would make europe feel stronger and more secure. however, not all countries in the caspian region are on the path to democracy and confidence. a lot will depend on our relations with turkey. if there is no possibility of opening the door to eu membership for that country now, it is essential not to expel it and not to create anti-european sentiments there. the desertec project is particularly significant in that it is forward-looking. when it comes to energy security, we pay too little attention to renewable energy sources and especially to energy saving. i am pleased that the commissioner has emphasised this point today. financial and economic mechanisms should be established at union level to encourage eu countries and individual companies to save energy and to switch to the latest, cleanest technologies, which would make a major contribution to energy security and the fight against climate change.
mr president, i voted in favour because the issue of energy supply security is of paramount importance today for all member states of the european union. the recent russian-ukrainian crisis has clearly demonstrated existing problems in the energy sector, and especially the total dependence of some member states on single suppliers of natural gas. the baltic countries, which are isolated from the rest of europe, are left to the mercy of gas suppliers from eastern europe. now it is more important than ever to develop a comprehensive common energy policy based on solidarity, the diversification of energy sources and defence of common interests. i would like take this opportunity to thank the commission and especially the swedish presidency for presenting the baltic sea strategy, which will allow effective mobilisation of structural funds to be used more efficiently to achieve common goals. i am convinced that, if properly implemented, the strategy will become an example of regional success. finally i would like to urge the commission to take a leading role in the implementation of the baltic sea strategy in order to ensure that in certain cases the interests of individual member states do not take precedence over the achievement of common strategy goals.
in writing. − the fight against terrorism has been high on the agenda of this house. however, we must strike the right balance between the security measures and the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights. we also need to ensure the utmost respect for privacy and data protection. balance and proportionality must be the key principles on which the fight against terrorism is based. the european union has always demonstrated a firm commitment to the protection citizens’ privacy, and that must be maintained. the community is based on the rule of law and all transfers of european personal data to third countries should respect procedural guarantees and defence rights. it goes without saying that any transfers must comply with data protection legislation at national and european level. swift is a key infrastructure, and we must ensure that any requests for data transfers are duly justified, based on targeted cases and strictly subject to judicial authorisation. the community must take a firm stance in the negotiations with the us to ensure that swift data cannot be used for any other purposes than those linked to terrorism financing.
in writing. − i very much welcome the proposed ec-tajikistan partnership and cooperation agreement which provides a framework for future eu cooperation with tajikistan. the central asia region is very important in economic and political terms for the community and this agreement will help to consolidate and strengthen the eu’s political and economic and trade relations and presence in tajikistan and central asia in general. moreover, it will also promote economic growth and support sustainable development, actions against poverty, and stability in tajikistan and the central asia region. i am delighted to see that this agreement also incorporates such issues as actions against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, trafficking, the drug trade and organised crime. from now on, both the eu and tajikistan will pursue a close political dialogue which will open the way for deeper relations in a great number of fields.
in writing. − i voted for this joint resolution because, contrary to the european commission’s prognosis on the substantial increase in the prices of dairy products, the dairy market is witnessing a dramatic deterioration, with falling milk prices despite intervention and export subsidies. the economies of many member states are heavily dependent on agriculture and farming. unfortunately, there is now a big difference between the prices paid by consumers for agricultural products in the supermarkets and the money received by producers. many eu dairy farmers are now at serious risk and are forced to sell dairy products below their production costs. the commission must take adequate measures in both the short and long term to overcome this crisis and to save the eu dairy market. in this regard, i very much support the request to create an eu diary fund to aid producers and to support farm investments. if we want to have a well-functioning diary market we must support farm investments in modernisations, small producers and young farmers. and most importantly, to ensure that farmers receive a fair and adequate price for their production.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my deep condolences to the families of those who died during the morakot typhoon. it is regrettable that hundreds have died, others lost their loved ones, and many more were injured. as many observers have noted, the number of victims could have been lower if the government had reacted in a more coordinated manner to the typhoon. the government failed to predict the seriousness of the tropical storm approaching the island. at the same time, we know that taiwan has a highly developed high-tech sector and is one of the largest manufacturers of gps systems in the world. part of the blame should be attributed to the fact that taiwan is not yet a member of the world meteorological organisation (wmo), as has already been mentioned by some colleagues. taiwan could have been better pre-warned if the wmo provided it with timely information. i am therefore convinced that the time is right again to raise the issue of taiwan’s membership in the wmo, not only for political reasons but also for humanitarian ones.
on behalf of the s-d group. the social democratic group cannot remain indifferent to the recent killings of human rights activists in russia. the deaths of anna politkovskaya, natalia estemirova, zarem sadulayev, andrei kulagin, should not be allowed to remain meaningless. we strongly condemn the perpetrators of these atrocities and the fact that, unfortunately, in some regions of russia, an atmosphere of impunity is developing, political murders are not being explained. russian president dmitry medvedev has promised that those responsible for the murders will be found and punished. his reaction was more forceful than the previous president's, but so far, it's just statements. time will tell whether the russian authorities will be able to fulfill the commitments they have made, which are so important to the country's citizens and to the international community. in our opinion, the assessments of russia's actions in the north caucasus in the proposed resolution went beyond the scope of the resolution, and the social democrats therefore decided to adopt their own separate document. the social democrats are convinced that the human rights situation in russia would certainly improve if the eu-russia consultations on human rights were accelerated. the european parliament, the state duma, civil society and human rights organisations in the eu and russia should play an active role in this consultation. we stress that the protection of human rights must be discussed in detail at the forthcoming eu-russia summit. this issue becomes an integral part of the new eu-russia agreement.
this debate and the european parliament's resolution on the murder of human rights defenders in russia are of particular importance, especially now that we hear one after another of the murders of human rights defenders natalia estemirova, aliko jabrayilov, zarem sadulayev and others in russia. the european union cannot remain indifferent to the brutal treatment of human rights defenders. in our relations with russia, we must stress and we do stress that the investigation of these murders takes too long and as a rule it ends without identifying the guilty. such unacceptable practices are becoming commonplace in russia, especially with regard to crimes in chechnya, where impunity is flourishing. one of our fundamental values is respect for human rights, human dignity, human life, and no pragmatic interest can take precedence over these values. i think that it is a matter of honor for russian president dmitry medvedev to do everything possible to ensure that the cases of abduction and murder of human rights defenders are investigated to the end and that the perpetrators are brought to justice.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate on the situation of human rights defenders in russia is timely and very appropriate. the recent wave of violence against human rights defenders has put the spotlight on the grave dangers they run in the course of their work. many have paid the ultimate price for bringing to light violations of human rights. we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who continue their work in such an environment. much of the violence against human rights defenders has taken place in the north caucasus, against the background of growing instability. the commission knows many of them. they are highly respected partners in the implementation of human rights projects. innocent civilians, law enforcement personnel and government officials have lost their lives in the ongoing struggle in the region. violence against human rights defenders is not restricted to the north caucasus. there are reports of activists, lawyers and independent journalists across the russian federation facing violence, harassment and intimidation. the eu must continue to speak out against this violence and insist that russia uphold the commitments it has entered into as a member of the united nations, the osce and the council of europe. it is crucial that the attacks and violent deaths of civil society activists are properly investigated and that the perpetrators are promptly identified and punished. it is only through the effective and lawful prosecution of these killings that the climate of fear and impunity can be dissipated. president medvedev has spoken out against what he has termed the ‘legal nihilism’ prevailing in russia. the eu stands ready to support russia in its continuing reform of the judicial system. the eu highly values the opportunity it has to discuss its concerns on human rights with the russian authorities. we welcome the more open attitude president medvedev has taken to discussions with the eu on these issues. the next eu-russia summit is another opportunity to continue these discussions. this must be complemented by exchanges among experts. the regular eu-russia human rights consultations offer an opportunity to broaden the scope of these discussions and the range of interlocutors with whom we discuss human rights issues. the safety of human rights defenders must be the first concern. we urge the russian authorities to make every possible effort to ensure that those who work on shedding light on violations of human rights are able to do so without fear of violence or intimidation.
the author. − as kazakhstan approaches its chairmanship of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, it is unfortunately moving away from its commitment to align with european standards. the country unduly emphasises its specificity and specificity, disregards osce recommendations on electoral law and media freedom. the repeated violations of human rights and the legal persecution of human rights defenders are increasingly calling into question the ability of this state to properly lead an organisation that fights for the implementation of democratic principles. we call on astana to make concrete progress in the areas of democratisation, protection of human rights, rule of law, freedom of the media. the law of kazakhstan based on international law conventions must be applied properly and transparently in the trials of human rights activists yevgeny zhovtyi, as well as yesingepov and dubanov. it is to be expected and demanded that sentences are impartial, that the participation of the accused in a human rights trial does not have any consequences for the verdict. we call on the council to raise the issue of these human rights defenders' cases at the next meeting of the eu-kazakhstan human rights dialogue in october. we call on the european commission to offer intensive assistance to kazakhstan in its preparations for the osce presidency, so that this important international organisation is not compromised.
mr president, my country, lithuania, is very similar to ireland in many ways and the yes of its people for the lisbon treaty has clearly demonstrated the will of all our citizens for a stronger and more effective europe. it has clearly shown that we are unable to act on our own in times of crisis and to ensure prosperity for our people. more than ever the community must speak with one voice, and solidarity among the member states is the basis for that. europe is undergoing difficult times, and the reforms proposed by the lisbon treaty will give an impetus for a more effective institutional structure which will undoubtedly lead it to more coherent policies in many areas. it is indeed a great achievement both for europe and for every one of us. once again i congratulate the irish people for their determination to have a better and more prosperous union.
marius ivanilov, a lithuanian citizen, 35 years old, director of the printing house of the daily newspaper "respublika", i.e. a person with a stable job and income, was arrested in belarus near minsk in august this year and has been held in the prison in the city of zhodino in belarus for 2 months without trial and without proof of his guilt. a few days ago, the term of ivanilov's detention was extended, as no evidence of guilt by the regime was collected in two months. it is also important to note that mr ivanilov has suffered from bronchial asthma since childhood. his parents know that he is being held in a cell with 26 inmates and only 6 beds, a cell that smokes all the time. mariusz suffers from asthma attacks, but he is not allowed to deliver medication, nor is he allowed to meet with his relatives, even the lithuanian consul. mr. president, this is happening in our neighboring country. this is what happens to a citizen of an eu member state - lithuania! i ask you to take the measures in your power to have marius ivanilov released immediately, as there is no evidence of his guilt and the accusation is unfounded. mr ivanilov must be allowed to travel to lithuania, he needs medical attention immediately.
in writing. this framework decision should not create unnecessary bureaucratic procedures when more appropriate means are already available to address the problems addressed in this decision. therefore, where member states have more flexible measures or arrangements, they should take precedence over the provisions of this framework decision; in any event, such measures or arrangements should not reduce the protection of suspects or accused persons. it is also essential that, after the suspect or accused person has been remanded in custody, agreement is reached as quickly as possible on the basis of direct consultations. the protection of suspect or accused data at all levels of consultation shall be in accordance with the principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
for the efd group business failures, including those of airlines, are not uncommon in times of economic downturn. lithuania is currently under bankruptcy proceedings for the lithuanian airline flylal. it is one of the ten european airlines that have gone bankrupt this year. although the legislation adopted by the european parliament provides for adequate guarantees and compensation for passengers who, through the fault of the airline, cannot depart on time or have problems with their luggage, this can only be ensured if the airline is not in financial difficulty. however, when the company files for bankruptcy, the passengers who bought tickets usually lose their money altogether. therefore, since airlines are monitored and licensed and flight authorisations are issued by national government authorities, in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline, governments could and should, on the recommendation of the commission, immediately reimburse the airline's passengers for the tickets they purchased and then recover them from the bankrupt company in a regressive manner. the proposal by mr simpson for a reserve compensation fund is also open for discussion. the problem is urgent, it is open to debate, and the best solution is to supplement the regulation adopted by the european parliament and the council on common rules for the provision of air services in the community. this would contribute to the protection of passengers using airlines' services.
madam president, i voted for the resolution. i am glad to see that both europe and the most powerful countries do not underestimate the seriousness of the situation we are all in and are not looking for a ‘one size fits all’ approach. the crisis has been caused by a number of complex and interrelated factors, and there will be no easy way out. the global financial crisis also gave us a good opportunity to reconsider our priorities and actions, especially in the long-term management of sustainable economic recovery. we have commitments to and expectations from our citizens to get our economies moving again at full speed with a view to the ensuring and effective functioning of capital markets and lending, tackling unemployment and creating jobs, and protecting our people, especially the most poor and vulnerable. this is not going to be easy, but i believe that we are moving in the right direction.
madam president, i gave my support to this resolution as i believe that it is time for all the players to take their responsibilities and to fulfil their commitments to the developing countries. it is true that the global, economic and financial crisis has hit hard even the most developed economies, but we must not forget that it has hit the poorest countries even more. we must bear in mind that the developing countries did not cause the crisis, but they are now the ones bearing a heavy burden. the implementation of the millennium goals is now at serious risk. i very much welcome the acknowledgement of the g-20 to take collective responsibility and i am expecting to see those promises turning into real actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because conflicts of jurisdiction should be resolved as effectively as possible in order to reach consensus. it is to be welcomed that the principle of ne bis in dem is guaranteed in the area of the courts of the states envisaged. it is regrettable that the report does not provide for a means of resolving the conflict of jurisdiction to which the state is assigned a role of jurisdiction. the role of eurojust is also not precisely defined, but this report is an incentive to continue to pursue important solutions in the areas of civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − the european union needs stronger financial market surveillance under the responsibility of a single institution (the g20). it is important to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability to avoid an undue burden on future generations, as well as to create more jobs and protect people from the impact of the crisis. it is particularly important to prioritise job creation, to ensure high and sustainable growth in the real economy, to ensure the proper functioning of capital markets and credit, to maintain and promote employment and to protect people from the negative effects of the crisis, with a particular focus on the poorest and most vulnerable. today we need to strengthen social dialogue at all levels to avoid wage cuts and to ensure that wages rise in line with productivity growth. the creation of new jobs must be seen as a priority.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, we have survived the cold weather in this house. there is probably a misunderstanding in this debate, since the proposal sought to make this evaluation process a community matter. it is true that there was schengen - and i note that the vast majority of members of parliament celebrated the success of schengen, which ensures both freedom of movement and security at the same time. it is true that the schengen evaluation was initially based on an intergovernmental basis and that the commission was only there as an observer. it is true that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must become responsible for evaluation. but there is no question of it having a monopoly on evaluation, and we must be very clear. we will of course involve the member states and the experts from the member states will be involved in planning the timetable for the visits, in the on-the-spot visits and in the drafting of the evaluation report. it is clear that the reluctance we feel in the member states is also due to a misunderstanding. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i'm on my way to parliament. there's been a misunderstanding here too. it is not a question of excluding parliament, as i have heard it said. it is simply a question, in the present state of affairs, of seeing how parliament can be better involved, with regular reports. but this does not in any way preclude the possibility that, after the treaty of lisbon, we may give parliament a greater role in this community-wide system. i insist a little because we know that this method makes it possible to ensure that the general european interest prevails, even if sometimes a member state is a little slow in defending this general european interest. so there are indeed some misunderstandings that i would like to try to clear up. i would also like to say that the proposals bring some added value compared to the current mechanism. the frequency of assessments will be much higher and clearer. visits will be scheduled on site, based on a risk analysis, there will be unannounced visits, a high level of expertise throughout the evaluation exercise, and the number of participating experts will make the visits effective. the assessment of the follow-up to the recommendations made following the on-the-spot evaluations will be improved. that is what i believe, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. i understand very well your eagerness to see parliament more involved once the lisbon treaty has been ratified. it is true that parliament must play a major role in this community method, but we have made this proposal to make it community, with the understanding that it leaves the participation of the european parliament very open. i have listened to each of the speakers very closely and i have noted the near unanimity of parliament's position, but i think that this is all based on a misunderstanding which can be corrected.
in writing. it is essential to establish a simple, effective, efficient and transparent mechanism to keep the schengen area free of any restrictions on movement, while at the same time allowing the intergovernmental schengen evaluation system to be adapted to the eu system. the european parliament's legal service carried out an inquiry and found that the co-decision procedure should have been chosen for the consideration of this proposal, rather than the consultation procedure. the treaty of lisbon will soon enter into force, and it will give the ep greater powers in the area of freedom, justice and security, which is where this proposal falls. since the security of the schengen area and its citizens is of paramount importance, the co-decision procedure should be chosen.
the european union is setting an example for other continents in tackling the threats facing our planet. the fight against climate change is a testament to this. the european union is ready to continue to lead in the future, but this fight must be joined by all the countries participating in the copenhagen conference. additional assistance is needed for developing countries. their economic growth, like that of the bric countries, must be based on green technologies. more attention should be paid to sharing state-of-the-art technologies and knowledge. the eu should set an attractive example not only by committing to reducing emissions but also by deploying renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. let us not forget that even in the european union we see a wide gap between the countries that are successfully adopting the latest technologies, that are saving energy, and those that are lagging behind. this gap must be closed by joint efforts, and this would again be a good example for all.
in writing. − i have voted for this report. currently, there is no coordinated renewable energy strategy on both european and world scale. for this reason, there is a big gap between the countries which have achieved major progress and success in renewable energy and countries which are still lagging behind in this area. if we want to accelerate the process of increasing the share of renewable energy sources, different countries should act in a coordinated way and leading countries should share their best practice. this agency, i think, would embark upon those goals and would give a new impetus and direction to renewable energy in general.
in writing. − i am in favour of additional support for workers who are suffering from the structural consequences of global trade and for workers to reintegrate into the labour market. it is essential that financial assistance for workers made redundant is available as soon as possible and that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is used as efficiently as possible, which is of great importance for the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. i would like to emphasise that member states should provide more detailed information on the implementation of important gender equality and non-discrimination objectives through the instruments financed by the egf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the rapporteur's position is in line with the principles of civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the evaluation mechanism is important for all member states. the european commission's proposal does not take account of the codecision procedure and therefore limits the possibilities for cooperation between member states. the commission's current proposal will have to be amended once the lisbon treaty enters into force.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, commissioner algirdas semet, who is taking part in this debate for perhaps the first time since parliament's approval today. however, as regards the 2010 budget, we can all probably agree today that the situation has changed somewhat since we considered the 2009 budget. there was actually a lot of talk about solidarity, about solving those problems that are related to today's financial crisis. and i think the 2010 budget should have been a little bit different. like it or not, we must take into account the reality of the situation, which presents us with new challenges every day. i would like to congratulate the parliament which, in brussels a few days ago, unanimously approved the aid for certain countries affected by various natural disasters. and i think the same problem exists in some of the other small countries in the european union that are currently underfunded. i therefore believe that in the future there should be some measures to help these countries to recover from the financial crisis.
mr president, i would like to address the issue of democracy-building with regard to our eastern neighbours. in recent years there has been a stagnation and, in some cases, a backsliding in terms of democratic standards in these countries. developments in georgia and moldova raise most concerns. the backbone of any democratic polity: a well-functioning – and i stress well-functioning – civil society is essentially absent in all of our eastern neighbours. i would like to congratulate sweden, the current presiding country, for being one of the initiators of the eastern partnership policy. this policy has the potential to draw our eastern neighbours closer to the eu. however, in many respects the eastern partnership stops short of providing really significant incentives for these countries to embark on painful and lengthy reforms. my additional question is: what is the position of the council in this regard? in other words, what is in the pipeline? do we intend to act more robustly in order to ensure that democracy in this and many other troubled and fragile areas will be strengthened?
mr president, president barroso mentioned here yesterday, in his nice response to mr farage, that in the eu we need the president of the council to be a true european. i am sure both of you and many here share that view. do we also need somebody in that position who would be a true ‘gazpromian’, like gerhard schröder, paavo lipponen etc.? or maybe you think those qualities are pretty compatible, so a good ‘gazpromian’, especially if they voted for friendly and bribing relations, is the best european. that way we could speed up the current development of the eu towards becoming the ‘gu’ – the ‘gazprom union’ – and so avoid the situation in which russia totally ignores the eu while working exclusively on splitting it. what is your opinion about ‘gazpromians’ for the presidency?
mr president, i hope that a previous unfortunate vote on a lithuanian law that has yet to come into being has helped many colleagues understand the danger, which has to be prevented, of the european union turning into the soviet union.
i voted in favour of the resolution drawn up by the socialist group together with another group, because freedom of information, freedom of expression and diversity of opinion must be guaranteed in all the countries of the european union. freedom of information is the foundation of a free democratic society and the charter of fundamental rights states that everyone has the right to freedom of expression, which includes the freedom to hold beliefs, to receive and impart information and ideas without interference from public authorities. and that is why we, the members of the european parliament, must support independent media coverage and fair competition at national level. in order to ensure effective freedom of the press, the authorities must be prepared to protect and promote freedom of expression, which is paramount to safeguarding the fundamental values and rights of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − the answer to the first question by the honourable member is ‘yes’, particularly because we need to discuss these issues. the trio – the french, czech and swedish presidencies – agreed to reinforce dialogue on issues relating to health and elderly people. for instance, there was a conference on alzheimer’s, and the conference i referred to, held a month ago, referred to dignified treatment of elderly people. so it was an opportunity to discuss this issue, and the conclusions will be discussed in epsco at the end of november, where we will also, of course, consider the report by the european parliament. concerning the retirement age, this is something that every member state decides itself, but in the discussions we have on the lisbon strategy – not the treaty, for once – on how to increase growth, development and employability and the demographic challenge that we will face, this is of course an issue to take into consideration – how to use the competence and experience of elderly people also and to find ways of letting them stay in the workforce. it is not up to the council to decide exactly the age this should happen, but rather to encourage all member states to make full use of their labour force.
acting president of the council. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. he's in prison without trial, without charge. neither his family, the swedish authorities, nor international human rights organizations are allowed to visit him. the human rights situation in eritrea has unfortunately shown no signs of improvement in recent years. the responsibility for this situation lies entirely with the government of eritrea. the continued violation by eritrea of its human rights obligations under national and international law raises serious concerns in the eu. we are particularly concerned about the issue of political prisoners and the lack of freedom of expression. we have repeatedly called on the eu to release all political prisoners in eritrea unconditionally, including, of course, dawit isaak. on 18 september 2009, the presidency, on behalf of the european union, issued a very clear statement in which we reiterated the call for the unconditional release of all political prisoners and stated that eritrea's behaviour is in clear breach of the obligations set out in the un international covenant on civil and political rights, which eritrea has ratified. the case of dawit isaak is unfortunately not solved, but it remains a top priority for the eu, for the swedish presidency and for the swedish government. we will continue our efforts unabated until he is released on humanitarian grounds and reunited with his family. i can assure you that we will continue to address his case and the situation of his fellow prisoners at the highest level in asmara. human rights are a key element in eu-eritrea relations. we are prepared to work with the eritrean government to improve the human rights situation. as far as the assistance is concerned, it is governed by and subject to the provisions of the cotonou agreement. the cotonou agreement covers both human rights and political dialogue to exert pressure and bring about change. it is an ongoing process that is going desperately slowly, but we hope that this can be a tool to make progress.
acting president of the council. - to olle schmidt, i would like to say that i really share the enormous concern and frustration that this is happening year after year after year, and that there is no chance of reaching the eritrean authorities. i am sure that both olle schmidt and other members have seen reports from eritrea and listened to interviews with the president. it's not an easy person to deal with, and the abuses in eritrea are enormous. we're still working with all the channels we know, but we don't have access to the prison. we haven't been allowed to visit him, and we don't know how he's doing. we are not ruling out going there if we think it will help the matter, but at the moment there is no possibility of making any promise to visit him or to have a dialogue about dawit isaak or to meet his family who are in eritrea. it's really frustrating. we have made a very clear statement. as olle schmidt says, he is the only political prisoner of european origin that i know of who is in prison, and we are working in various ways to increase the pressure on the eritrean authorities and to make them understand that dawit isaak and his fellow prisoners must be released also in accordance with the conventions that the country itself has ratified, but it is very difficult to establish a normal dialogue with this country.
acting president of the council. - thank you anna hedh! i would like to start by reminding anna hedh that the swedish presidency has put alcohol and health issues high on the agenda as an important support for the implementation of the eu strategy to support member states in reducing alcohol-related harm. against this background, we have already implemented three major arrangements. the first was the informal meeting of health ministers in jönköping in july, which paid particular attention to the sale and marketing of alcoholic beverages and its impact on alcohol consumption among young people. the second event was an expert conference on alcohol and health in stockholm on 21-22 september, aimed at supporting a sustainable, long-term and comprehensive eu strategy on alcohol. there were more than 450 participants from virtually all eu countries, and the participants gave very strong support to the swedish priorities in the field of alcohol and health. the third event was the global expert meeting on alcohol, health and social development, held on 23 september. it was organised by the swedish presidency in cooperation with sida (the agency for international development cooperation) and the norwegian ministry of health and care services, and sponsored by the world health organisation. the aim was to contribute to a global strategy when the world health assembly meets in may next year. the meeting presented new findings on the link between harmful use of alcohol, social development and the spread of infectious diseases, such as hiv/aids and tuberculosis, an important link that deserves attention. so to the question: 'will the swedish presidency work to ensure that an evaluation is carried out as soon as possible?' indeed, the adoption of an eu strategy in 2006 was an important step. by adopting this directive, the commission recognised alcohol as one of the key determinants of health in the eu and that the eu has a responsibility to tackle risky and harmful alcohol consumption. this was further reinforced by the support of all eu health ministers in their november 2006 conclusions. since 1 january 2007, the commission has been monitoring the evolution of alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm and policy developments in the eu. although we have seen progress in many areas, too little time has been spent assessing the full extent of the health impact of alcohol policies and drinking habits. the first report from the commission, presented at an expert conference a few weeks ago, was a state of play on the eu alcohol strategy. it is an interim report for the final report to be submitted in 2012. on the presidency's part, we will of course go through the progress report and examine the outcome of the expert conference on alcohol and health. we'll be following the developments. we have also funded a number of new studies to ensure that alcohol remains high on the eu agenda. among other things, we are funding a study on the impact of alcohol marketing on young people, a study on the impact of alcohol on older people in 10 different eu countries and a study on the impact of crossborder trade on national alcohol policies. in our draft conclusions on alcohol and health, which are now being discussed in the council working party, we have proposed that the commission be asked to start analysing and seeking priorities for the next phase of work on alcohol and health, to stress the need to look beyond 2012 when the evaluation and the current alcohol strategy are completed. in the lead-up to this discussion, the presidency aims to adopt council conclusions in support of an alcohol strategy in december 2009.
acting president of the council. - i thank you for your support for this. we have really tried to raise the issue and that is how we work within the eu: holding conferences, producing studies, drawing up timetables to make sure that everything is running smoothly, and tying up the next presidencies. i'm glad we were able to clear up the misunderstanding that seems to have arisen. the idea was that it would be a sub-report, which is of course very important and which we are looking at and analysing, but that the final evaluation will be in 2012. in the meantime, there is a lot to be done and i can also say that many member states are doing a lot, because everyone has been made aware of the health effects of alcohol consumption in all the member states.
the european union is reducing the number of people killed in road accidents, but the ambitious targets will not be achieved next year. the main cause is alcohol. in some countries, suicide rates are alarmingly high, and again, alcohol. do you think that the european union should step up its measures against alcohol consumption, which are still weak, following the example of scandinavia? in particular, the use of young people should be restricted. and would sweden not want to initiate this?
president-in-office of the council. − one of the five priority themes in the ec alcohol strategy is precisely the reduction of injuries and death from alcohol-related road accidents. this is, as the honourable member said, a very big problem and it causes enormous suffering and has economic costs as well. the commission has recommended the adoption of a lower maximum for inexperienced and professional drivers, while countries who already apply limits should not decrease them. there is a recommendation on this, and we are working with the member states. many states have already applied those recommendations and there are a lot of awareness-raising activities going on to discuss this issue. i am not aware of any ongoing discussion on prices. there might be. i will check with my colleague, the minister for health, who is responsible for that, but i do not think that particular issue is being discussed. there are many other alcohol-related issues that are being followed up right now, but probably not this one for the moment, because it is of course not an eu competence.
acting president of the council. − nord stream is a unique project for the baltic sea region because of its size and potential implications. the council is aware of the concerns regarding the environmental aspects of the nord stream gas pipeline project and has taken careful note of the european parliament's resolution on the environmental consequences of the planned baltic sea gas pipeline between russia and germany, adopted in july last year. all eu member states and the european community are parties to the 1991 un espoo convention. it is the convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context. the convention contains a number of relevant obligations binding on the parties, in particular to ensure that an environmental impact assessment is carried out, including consultation with other parties affected by a particular project. the impact of the nord stream project on the sensitive baltic sea environment is of the utmost importance and needs to be carefully examined. natura 2000 sites could be affected, as could areas with mines and chemical munitions dumps. sedimentation could affect marine flora and fauna and also have consequences for the fisheries industry. the fact that the gas pipeline is located close to important sea routes could also pose environmental and safety risks. under the espoo convention, all the baltic sea states have now been working together for more than three years on the nature of these obligations as regards the way the project is to be carried out. the council would nevertheless like to emphasise that the nord stream project is a private undertaking. therefore, it is the project promoters who are responsible for providing information demonstrating that the project complies with the relevant legislation, under the control of the member states concerned. therefore, the council cannot comment on the nord stream project in any way that could be interpreted as interference in national legal processes.
thank you, minister, for a really detailed answer, and it seems that sweden is very concerned about this issue, especially since sweden is a baltic country. i just want to make one point, that there's never going to be too much attention to these issues. and i would like you to say that this is probably the case and that sweden will continue to follow this matter closely and take appropriate steps throughout the presidency.
in fact, i have observed riots in moldova and this situation is known from the inside. it's a country that has actually quite a complicated historical past - there's transnistria, there's gagauzia, there's moldova and many other things. almost all countries that have emerged from the post-soviet system require some financial support first. and that is why i would really encourage you to start negotiations as soon as possible and to initiate negotiations with the international monetary fund, because this country and this government, which has been formed after the last elections and is on the path to democracy, we should all really support. i think that the colleagues have made a very good point about certain future steps, namely the opening up of the free trade area, the visa regime, and these are everyday issues which we will also have to deal with in the future.
madam president, on a point of order, i wish to protest against manipulation by somebody in the secretariat. a list was provided for the debate on the fact-finding mission to georgia, but names of certain speakers, including mine, have been deleted. i therefore request my speaking time in accordance with what had been arranged until the last minute. i request the floor after mr kasoulides.
madam president, ms heidi tagliavini, head of the mission, wrote the following comments in a separate press summary: ‘it must be said that the conflict of 2008 was predictable and preventable’; ‘but the international community looked the other way, as if it had given up not only on solving the underlying conflict, but also on upholding an increasingly fragile cease-fire.’ who would prefer to uphold increasing uncertainty and armed violence with an openly approaching tragic outcome? ms tagliavini noted three legal personalities as defining the indifferent international community: the united nations, the osce and the european union. now we, the european parliament, are among the three great hypocrites who saw, knew and did not want to prevent the recent bloody stage of that 17-year war. other main conclusions of the mission remain of global importance as well. they are: no more peacekeepers from a neighbouring country as they usually defend particular zones d’état but not peace. the impact of a great power’s coercive politics and diplomacy against a small and unsubordinated neighbour should be considered, not to mention eventual loss of important parts of territory through creeping annexation. there are no winners in this conflict. when the international community is among the big losers, the political culture of cooperation has suffered. two more quotations: ‘established principles of international law such as respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of states were ignored’; ‘falling back from civilised standards of political interaction in europe is a consequence’. (the president cut off the speaker.)
i voted in favour of the 2010 budget because the funds provided for in this budget will at least provide some relief to the citizens of the european union countries in the wake of the economic, social and financial crisis. the budget also provides for more resources for social purposes, which is particularly important in the current period. i also supported the provisions which provide for additional funding for job creation and job preservation. and it is also very important that we have some funds for the dairy sector. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the milk market, including the introduction of a new system of quotas for milk products.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i attach great importance to the upcoming eu-us summit. at the recent g20 meeting, many promises were given which will be difficult to achieve if countries act on their own. in this regard, the eu and the us should take the leading role in the implementation of g20 commitments. therefore, we need better and more effective coordination between the measures taken by the us and the eu. we do not need to have a strategic eu-us partnership. i hope that the commission will take this request by the european parliament on board.
the human rights situation in iran is clearly deteriorating. this year's disputed presidential elections and the mass protests that followed them mirrored the increasingly tense and fearful political and social situation in iran. i note that in this year's reporters without borders press freedom report, iran is ranked at the very bottom of the list, at 172 out of 175, and is only ahead of eritrea, north korea and turkmenistan. the situation of journalists in iran is one of the worst in the world, with the blocking of free information on the internet, the persecution of bloggers. we are well aware of the recent arrest of a well-known blogger fariba pajooh, whose further fate is completely uncertain. i am appealing to the european commission. commissioner, it is essential that the commission's representation in tehran be opened as soon as possible in order to establish a dialogue with the iranian authorities on the deteriorating human rights situation in the country.
i support mr zalewski's position and i support in particular amendment no 1 to the resolution, because it draws attention to two vital issues for the european union. first, we reject the arrogance with which a third country ignores and rejects the eu as an equal and respected partner on matters of external energy security of importance to the union. secondly, we do not support the anti-european pipeline which is known to be being built by a third party for the nordstream pipeline project. we must oppose the lobbying and sometimes corrupt division of europe, and especially not support russia's arrogance towards our own, that is the european parliament. we cannot accept that gazprom, the main shareholder of nordstream, totally ignores our parliament's resolution on the environmental risks posed by the pipeline. the problem is not only the tragic ecological state of the baltic sea, but also the moral condition of our institutions. we voted here last year to demand an independent, non-pre-purchased environmental impact assessment and guarantees for coastal communities in the event of a disaster. gazprom has not even responded to the european voice. it's a stab in the face of parliament, and we can't answer 'yes, sir, great pleasure.' we must act with dignity and respect, without manipulating or blocking the special debate currently being initiated by the european parliament on the problems of the baltic sea life. if we are scared to accept the baltic slaughter and the new moscow-berlin wall at sea with the russian navy protecting the pipeline, we will bury our free future. in fact, when we talk about energy, we sell freedom.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you again for raising this very important issue. i think there is general agreement that the services directive is very important and that it is really urgent that we try to implement it as soon as possible. the swedish presidency is doing its utmost, as have earlier presidencies, to make sure that this goes smoothly and quickly. we have had several discussions in different council formations. we have had seminars and discussions on it, and it has been placed on the agenda to encourage real progress on this issue. however, almost two months remain, and the answer to the question of who is lagging behind may change. there is still time. our aim is clear – and i know that it is the commission’s aim as well – and it is that all countries should have implemented the directive by 28 december 2009. there might be some delays. we deplore that, of course, but i know that all countries are working as quickly and swiftly as possible. a question was asked about how the contact points would function. well, they do not exist yet, but the aim is for them to function in a user-friendly and effective way and to contain all the relevant information that is needed, both by the service suppliers and by consumers. member states have collaborated with the commission to supply an information leaflet, available in all languages, to facilitate access for citizens and consumers to the relevant information. many member states are also making their own efforts in order to spread information about the directive. there is also an agreement to have a common logo to make it easier for users to navigate between the different websites and the contact points. some member states – although it is not compulsory – will provide information on working rights and labour laws at their contact points. the services directive does not cover labour law and the posting of workers is excluded from it. the question put to me by my swedish colleagues is a swedish issue. we are looking into that, and it is a little outside this debate. we will be happy to come back to it in a more national context. the services directive is important. it will make life easier for service providers, it will facilitate free movement and will be beneficial for investment, for growth and jobs and it will be very good for the citizens. the citizens look to us to ensure that it is in place as soon as possible because it will facilitate their life. it is our responsibility to make sure that we do our utmost to see this happen. i would like to thank parliament again, not only for its contribution in voting on and adopting the services directive, but also for acting as a watchdog and continuing to push the council and the commission to do what we can in order for it to come into place. but there is still some time remaining and possibly we will come back to this debate next year, under the spanish presidency. the commission will still be watching this very closely.
member of the commission. − mr president, as has been said before, we have discussed all the questions surrounding all the different social and other aspects of this directive. i do not think we should reopen this discussion now, but we do have to look to the member states to see how they have implemented or will implement the directive. on the basis of the already available information it does seem that a majority of member states will have completed the implementation either by the end of the year or maybe the beginning of 2010. so i think one can also say that most member states will at least have set up the basic single contact point and will therefore be ready to comply with their administrative cooperation agreements and obligations. in some cases, however, there might be delays as far as the changes in the legal framework are concerned. with regard to the review process, some member states have taken the opportunity of the review to simplify laws and procedures and have made a considerable number of changes. other member states have enacted only a few amendments, and the number of changes made of course depends on several factors including the existing regulatory framework and also the internal organisation of member states: in federal states it is more complicated than for others. of course this also depends on the willingness of a member state to simplify laws and procedures. with regard to the question of proper implementation, my colleague charlie mccreevy has on many occasions drawn the attention of members of the member states’ governments to the importance of the work on implementation, and he and his staff have followed and monitored the implementation process very closely. indeed, as i said before, during the last three years more than 80 bilateral meetings with all the member states were held, and expert groups met in brussels over 30 times. so we have been very active on that. and we will continue to follow member states’ work and will also continue to provide technical assistance if desired by the member states. but in the end it is also clearly the member states’ responsibility to do the work and also allocate the necessary resources. as regards next year, i think it will be crucial to ensure that the process of mutual evaluation provided for in the directive is used in a constructive way. we will also have to assess the quality of implementation of the legislation, as was asked, monitor the functioning of the single contact points and then also get feedback from businesses and from consumers. last but not least we may also need to resort to other enforcement mechanisms – sometimes maybe to infringement cases, but it is too early now to say that. on the small and medium-sized enterprises, of course we are of the same opinion as you. they are the backbone of the eu economy and their concerns are at the heart of the services directive. so this directive will benefit all businesses, but smes will benefit most, and at the present time smes very often decide to stay at home because of all the legal complexities and also because of the absence of transparent information. therefore the services directive will do away with many of these complexities and – we all think – give a boost to them. to the commission’s knowledge, no member state is using the implementation of the services directive to reduce workers’ rights. i would like to say that very clearly. workers’ rights as such are not affected or dealt with by the services directive. indeed, this was clearly a result of the practical and political compromise reached by both parliament and the council. finally i would like to reiterate that parliament has been a key partner throughout the history of the services directive. over the past three years the commission has found it important to keep you involved in the implementation process and informed about our work with the member states, and, as was mentioned earlier, this will remain a key action to making the internal market work better, to deliver the growth and jobs we need. proper implementation is therefore the most pressing issue, especially in the current difficult economic crisis.
in writing. europe must be competitive. the european parliament's efforts will help to bring about the free movement of services, which has not been fully regulated in the internal market of the european union. the services directive regulates the authorisation procedure, specifies the prohibited requirements, establishes that from 2010 all new requirements for service providers must be non-discriminatory and justified by the overriding public interest, and regulates the main functions of the contact centre being set up. the main reason is the reduction in the cost of providing services across borders, which is particularly important in this period of economic recession. lithuania is among the member states ready to implement the provisions of the services directive in a timely manner. indeed, it is essential that the commission cooperates more closely and effectively with the member states, as some countries lack information and adequate preparation on how to implement the directive. at present, only 50% of member states are ready to transpose the provisions of the services directive into national law.
i agree that it is particularly important to focus on research in this period, while guaranteeing aid to people with alzheimer's disease, because our european union is made up of 27 countries and not every country has the same opportunities to provide aid to people with alzheimer's disease. it's different health care options, different social services options, different help for the families that have this patient. so this research is absolutely vital and it needs to be focused and found, firstly, funding, coordinated work, coordinated activities and, secondly, it is very important that there is a financial opportunity to carry out this research and provide real help to people with this disease and their families.
the european union is committed to developing an effective mechanism to prevent sexual violence against children. it has been eight months since the european parliament's plenary session debated this highly important topic. it is to be welcomed that the council has, in the meantime, started to consider a draft directive to improve the legal framework in this area, but life does not stand still and every now and then tragic events remind us that our children are not yet sufficiently protected. sadly, the consequences of such crimes are often painful and long-lasting. child sexual exploitation and the distribution of child pornography are often transnational in nature and can only be effectively prevented through international cooperation. it is necessary to provide for criminal liability for new forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children which are not provided for under the current legal framework. i would like to draw the attention of the new parliament to this important problem and urge the council to speed up its consideration of the draft.
mr president, as the withdrawal of russia’s signature from the energy charter treaty is not a single event but a method used several times now, it would be worth inserting a note to the effect that the latest withdrawal ‘undermines the reliability of that country’s signature in general’. in striving for new signatures, we should ask our honourable partner to be more serious in the future.
mr president, there is a mistake in recital h, either through a drafting error or an omission, because it mentions the recent conflict ‘between georgia and its breakaway regions’, in spite of the true picture. a word is missing there. according to the report of the fact-finding mission, it was a war or military conflict in georgia between russia and georgia, where some additional units of russia’s allies and mercenaries from the north caucasus were involved as well. so, in a resolution that is not looking to be naive or biased, we should make the following addition: ‘between russia and georgia and its breakaway regions’. nobody really thinks that the army of south ossetia was bombing gori and approaching tblisi. that is why president sarkozy flew to meet president medvedev and not president kokoity. let us fill that accidental gap with a clear mind.
in writing. −integration is a great tool for preserving peace, it can be used for the western balkans, it is important to move forward to facilitate visa facilitation. the parties have the possibility to develop closer relations with their neighbours and with the european union. visa liberalisation is based on a regional strategy and a european perspective, without discriminating against all western balkan countries. the same criteria as set out in the visa liberalisation action plans should apply to all the parties concerned. the question of when kosovo and albania will be able to benefit from visa-free travel remains unresolved. i am in favour of an action plan and urgent negotiations as soon as possible. albania and bosnia are left to catch up with macedonia, montenegro and serbia. the visa requirements should be lifted as soon as albania and bosnia comply with all the requirements laid down.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's view and agree that legal acts on europolo should be discussed by consensus with parliament and the council. particular attention should be paid to the protection of personal data. indeed, it is not sufficiently clear whether there are robust safeguards in place for the transfer of personal data to third parties. does this not infringe citizens' privacy rights or can individuals have confidence in the protection of their data? this issue should be thoroughly examined and the council should therefore submit a new proposal after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
president of the commission. − in the new european union 2020 strategy that i announced just now, there is a strong emphasis on the social matters that you have just mentioned, mr bisky. i believe that we now have an urgent situation regarding social matters, particularly in view of rising unemployment. there is a risk of a decade of low growth and high unemployment, and that would put severe strain on our social models and our living standards. that is why i think it is important to work on matters relating to social inclusion. we also need to make sure that our people are equipped with the right skills to succeed in this new economic model. one of the priority areas of the european union 2020 strategy will thus be to empower people. emphasis should be put on education and skills, lifelong learning, mobility of workers, supporting entrepreneurship and self-employment, but also on fighting exclusion and poverty. i think we, as the european union, have a duty to make the fight against exclusion and poverty one of our priorities.
for the efd group mr president, back in september i asked you to extend the operation of the ignalina nuclear power plant. the answer gave me the impression that the commission either does not know the facts, is not informed, or is responding in a negative way to the members of the european parliament. therefore, mr. chairman, i think you know that the nuclear fuel storage facilities are not being set up and the falling casings will be stored in the reactor reducing nuclear safety in the region. that's the first one. secondly, i think you know that the replacement generators will be built in three years and lithuania will lack electricity. that's the second one. and thirdly, i think you know that the reservations that we've mentioned allow the plant to continue operating and that it's not going to be shut down. and my question, mr president, is who will take responsibility for the decline in nuclear safety in this region and the increased risk to the citizens of the european union?
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that as a member from lithuania i can speak in polish, my mother tongue. i believe that this privilege should become the norm not only in the european parliament but in all eu countries, because multiculturalism and linguistic diversity are very important in the european hierarchy of values. we should do everything possible to ensure that national minorities, especially indigenous minorities, do not feel any discrimination in the context of today's commission statement. the commission therefore has the urgent task of resolving conflicts over the use of minority languages in all eu countries without exception. the positive developments in finland, italy, poland, denmark, the czech republic and many other countries are clearly making this easier. we only need effective and, importantly, immediate action by the commission on this issue.
mr president, i supported this resolution. climate change is a global political priority at the copenhagen summit. it should deliver not merely political commitments but binding agreements and sanctions for non-compliance. the fight against climate change is a global action, and the active involvement of both developed and developing countries is necessary. however, the rich countries have to play the leading role. they must agree on mandatory targets to cut their emissions and, at the same time, find money to help developing countries deal with climate change.
mr president, this is a very important issue and i voted for this resolution because i believe that we need to have a piece of legislation protecting our citizens in case of airline bankruptcies. millions of our citizens use low-cost airlines every day. however, the high number of low-cost airline bankruptcies in the european union since 2000, and the recent case of sky europe, have clearly demonstrated the vulnerability of the low-cost carriers to the changing oil prices and the current difficult economic conditions. we must rectify this situation, and we ask the commission to consider the most adequate compensation measures for our passengers.
in writing. − i am convinced that the protection of children's rights is a very important component of the stockholm programme. i would point out that in recent years there has been a growing concern about violence against children, including the sexual exploitation and tourism of children for sex, trafficking in children and child labour. given that the protection of the rights of the child is a social priority of the european union (eu), i call on the council and the commission to pay greater attention to the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable. the rights of the child are part of the human rights that the eu and the member states are committed to respecting under the european convention on human rights and the united nations (un) convention on the rights of the child. the eu must step up its commitment to improving the situation of children in europe and worldwide in order to ensure the proper promotion and protection of children's rights. i would like to stress that only a strategy based on coordinated and joint action would encourage member states to respect and uphold the principles of the un convention on the rights of the child throughout the european union and beyond. in order to ensure the rights of children properly, i would propose the adoption of binding standards in all eu member states. unfortunately, respect for the rights of the child is not yet universally guaranteed and i therefore call on the council and the commission to take concrete measures to ensure that the rights of the child are adequately protected in the context of the implementation of the stockholm programme.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? mr president of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, ladies and gentlemen. thank you for a very important debate. male violence against women has many faces and can take many forms, but the vulnerability and pain is the same no matter who is affected. it is positive that so many initiatives are being taken by the commission in this area, and it is my hope that european cooperation will be a driving force in combating violence and strengthening gender equality and that we will work strategically. it is a much-requested initiative and a much-requested activity for many of you members. i repeat, violence against women is a priority for the swedish presidency: the stockholm programme, which will be adopted next month, will increase the scope for addressing the problems of women who are victims of violence, which have just been raised by the european parliament.2 . on 9 november, the presidency hosted a conference where member states and civil society representatives had the opportunity to exchange experience and knowledge on combating violence against women. in the autumn, the presidency will also organise a conference in brussels on victims of trafficking in human beings, with a view to highlighting the need for action for the victims, with a focus on cooperation with countries of origin of trafficking in human beings. i want to thank you for this extremely important debate. the road is long and the obstacles are many, but our vision must be to end violence against women.
member of the commission. − mr president, i just have some closing remarks, but first of all i would like to thank all the members who spoke in this debate, which is a very crucial debate. this is one of the most brutal forms of human rights abuses that are very widespread, not only in the developing countries. we are talking a lot about congo, but we should also talk about other developing countries like, for example, pakistan. last night after a meeting in this parliament i watched television and there was a programme on 24/24 on abuses against women in pakistan. it was horrible, simply horrible. but it is also the truth. one of the members gave the example of the woman who did not want to wear a burkha. it is obvious that conflict is exacerbating and making more severe the abuses against women, that sexual violence is used as a weapon of war, that you see after some time that the social fabric and the cohesion of the traditional communities are destroyed, are breached, that ethics disappear and that you end up in a situation where not only rebels and soldiers but also ordinary citizens commit these kinds of horrendous attacks on women and children. several members have asked whether it is possible to have a european directive on violence against women that would ensure the prevention of violence, the protection of victims and the prosecution of perpetrators. unfortunately, i do not think there is a legal basis for that. there is a legal basis in the lisbon treaty for some specific actions that can be taken . .. ... notamment en ce qui concerne le domaine de la traite des êtres humains, de l'exploitation sexuelle des enfants et de la pédopornographie. là, il y a une mention explicite dans le traité de lisbonne, mais la déclaration des droits de l'homme, en tant que telle, n'est pas une base juridique pour lancer une directive. je crois, toutefois, que la commission doit continuer à exploiter diverses voies pour attaquer ce problème, notamment par des programmes qui soient non seulement axés sur les pays en voie de développement, mais aussi sur certains groupes vulnérables et sur nos propres pays membres, parce que chez nous aussi, dans notre union européenne, qui devrait quand même être un exemple dans le monde pour la protection des droits de l'homme et des femmes, il y a encore des problèmes. vous pouvez compter sur la commission – l'actuelle, mais aussi la prochaine – pour poursuivre cette action et l'amplifier, pour la toute simple raison que nous trouvons que c'est nécessaire. la question n'est pas, comme l'un d'entre vous l'a suggéré, de savoir si ce sont les états membres qui doivent prendre les devants, ou la commission, ou l'union européenne. je pense qu'à tous les niveaux et dans toutes nos compétences, nous avons, nous devons avoir ce problème présent à l'esprit.
in writing. − i support this resolution and call on the commission to declare a european year against violence against women. i believe that this will speed up the member states' improvement of national laws to combat violence against women, especially in the private sphere, and will also make effective the implementation of national action programmes to combat violence against women. member states must develop a uniform system for reducing violence against women establish measures for prevention, protection and assistance. it is very important that this issue be one of the priorities for the new commission and the spanish presidency of the council.
here in the european parliament, we often talk about human rights. according to a eurobarometer survey, 70% of eu citizens are non-smokers and a large majority of them would like to see smoking banned in public spaces. there is a debate about whether smokers will be discriminated against. but i think that in terms of the recognized health risks of smoking, we cannot risk human health. of course, when it comes to smoking bans across the european union, we must not forget the principle of subsidiarity and leave it to the member states to decide how they protect and defend their citizens. the example from lithuania, as already mentioned by my colleagues from ireland, is that we have a tobacco control law which is one of the most advanced in the european union. of course, there is more to be done. in lithuania, tobacco use is prohibited in educational institutions, workplaces, indoor premises, all catering establishments, and public transport. the tobacco control law in lithuania has been passed quite favourably, and in fact even smokers themselves admit that they now smoke less or some have quit altogether. lithuania, like other eu countries, should pay much more attention to the problem of smoking among minors. i believe that we all have an interest in a clean and healthy environment, especially for our children, and that good examples of countries banning smoking in public spaces should encourage and inspire those countries that are more sceptical about this issue to defend the rights of non-smokers, and the european union institutions to look for ways to adopt binding legislation, taking into account the views of the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2009 enlargement strategy for the western balkans, iceland and turkey, as lithuania, together with the baltic and other central and eastern european countries, was in a similar position as a candidate country 615 years ago. membership of the european union has brought many new opportunities to my country and to the other new eu countries and their citizens, boosted the economy, strengthened democracy and human rights. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon means a new, more powerful engine for the european union, which will steer our ship more successfully through the waters of the financial and economic crisis, and which will allow us to move to a new stage of eu enlargement. the balkan countries, which have been the backbone of europe and the source of the horrors of the world wars, can only join the eu if they remove the barriers to cooperation between citizens, businesses, cultural and scientific professionals from different countries that have emerged in recent years. it is very important not to close the door on turkey, which is like a bridge between europe and the muslim world. turkey's rapprochement with the eu is transforming the country for the better, with many positive steps towards democracy and human rights. while we are not yet talking specifically about the accession of ukraine, moldova and the south caucasus, this prospect also contributes to stability, economic strength, reduction of corruption and consolidation of the rule of law in these countries in the future.
i fully support the view of my group that this issue should not have been on the agenda, since there are much more pressing and much more acute issues around the world. if we talk about nicaragua, the first thing we have to talk about is that it is the country with the highest debt in the world, that it is one of the poorest countries in latin america. the communist experiment failed there, and the neoliberal experiment failed there. it's a country where the superpowers america and the soviet union have been interfering too much, and that's why it's not always on the verge of civil war. clearly, there are strong hand tendencies that need to be condemned. but let us not forget that we in europe have strong hand tendencies too. so let us concentrate on the more important things.
author. − mr president, while we are getting closer to china in terms of trade and environmental cooperation and china was host to the wonderful olympic games last year, it is clearly backsliding in terms of ensuring human rights to its citizens. the response of the chinese authorities to peaceful protests in tibet last year and xinjiang this year was completely out of proportion, to say the least. people everywhere in the world should have the right to protest against government policies they do not like. instead of this we had a violent and brutal reaction from the chinese authorities against the protesters and hundreds of people killed. now we have a further nine people, mostly uighurs, executed without mercy as a demonstration that any dissenting voices will be met by brutal and lethal force by the chinese state apparatus. while we admire the chinese culture and make progress in exchanging goods and investments, it is our duty to speak loudly and clearly and condemn the killings and executions. therefore we once again reiterate our call to the chinese officials to impose a moratorium on the death penalty and grant more freedom to its provinces striving for greater autonomy, while respecting the ‘one china’ policy.
i would like to believe that in the 21st century, the death penalty will be gone, that the only place where we'll find execution tools is in a museum. but there's a long way to go before that, and you'd like china to be firmly on that path. it has been leading the world for decades in terms of economic growth, but unfortunately also in terms of executions. of course, beijing would say that in a country this big, it's the only way to do it, that even the united states doesn't abolish the death penalty. however, if we are serious about a strategic partnership between the european union and china, which would be of great importance to both sides, then beijing would undoubtedly have to change its policy on the death penalty, as well as on dialogue between ethnic minorities, on the harmonious coexistence of ethnic minorities.
i would like to stress that one of the european union's most important tasks at the moment is to prevent mass unemployment, which leads to long-term inactivity and a social crisis. i regret that the trialogue did not reach an agreement on the source of funding for the microfinance facility. in a time of economic and social difficulties, the commission's proposal to reallocate eur 100 million from the progress budget would be an insufficient solution, since it would not reduce the social exclusion of the most vulnerable groups of people. i am convinced that the microfinance measure will be more effective and achieve its objective if it is coordinated with national, regional and local programmes and has sufficient funding. it is also important to take into account that european social well-being is directly linked to employment and the opportunities for employment provided. i would therefore suggest that the commission take into account not only those who are at risk of losing their jobs, but also those who have difficulty entering or re-entering the labour market. even before the economic crisis, many educated and employable citizens had no real prospects of employment and therefore a significant number of them emigrated outside the european union. as regards the deprived, i would suggest that the commission and the council take note of the fact that there are more deprived groups, including women, the disabled and the elderly, who need additional guarantees of employment. there is therefore no other way than to find additional funding for microfinance instruments. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
i would like to reply that the best solution would be to find additional funds, because the progress instrument is basically aimed at the same groups and it would appear that if there is no additional funding, the effect will certainly not be achieved. so let's sit down together and find a solution, because unemployment is growing painfully and it's affecting a lot of people who are really struggling.
i think there is a complete consensus among members of the european parliament today that this microfinance facility is very much needed today. living and working conditions have changed fundamentally and the unemployment crisis that has hit almost every country is leading to some proposals that some support measures should be changed. until now, financial support has been mainly directed at large companies and organisations, and it has been repeatedly noted that ordinary citizens of the european union have not been able to count on financial support until now. i think that the commission's future decision to seek agreement with parliament would be very necessary. 100 million is a start. this is the first attempt, but i am confident that this attempt can be successful.
thank you, mr president, mr council, mr commission, and mr colleagues. indeed, the 2010 budget is an example of a good compromise. i would also like to say that i am not in agreement with those colleagues who say that the 2010 budget is a budget for the crisis. we, the representatives of some countries, know very well what a budget crisis is when budget revenues have fallen by 30 percent or more in two years. the commission, together with the council and parliament, has found additional funds to finance certain priorities, in particular the economic recovery plan, such as the increase in broadband internet access, and the energy plans. and i also want to mention that there are some things that are problematic. i would, however, like to draw attention to the statement by my colleague mr godman, who said that individual countries have not been able to cope with financial support for many years. i therefore really think that this budget is a good one, that it should be supported, and i congratulate the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group thank you, mr president, and colleagues. i certainly share the view of mr cashman that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the change in the legal situation, now is the right time to resume discussions on the 2001 regulation on public access to documents and on the substantial improvement and amendment of that regulation. the lisbon treaty aims to make society even more open, stating that decisions must be taken as openly as possible and as clearly as possible for citizens to understand. this is all the more so as the perception and access of our citizens to the activities of the european union and to the documents it adopts are linked to the assessment of the european union as a whole and to their confidence in its action. openness is particularly needed here to strengthen democratic principles and respect for fundamental rights. public access to documents must therefore become a fundamental principle and confidentiality must be applied only in exceptional cases. the european parliament has already done a great deal of work in this area. the commission has already produced its report on the commission's proposal to amend the regulation in force in march this year, and this proposal by the european parliament is a good basis for further discussion. however, it should be borne in mind that this is an amendment to the regulation and that further cooperation and common agreement on the revision of the transparency rules by all the institutions of the european union is therefore necessary. the improved regulation would create a better level of transparency. since the lisbon treaty lays down the principles for a more open european union, closer cooperation with citizens, it is important to establish specific instruments and administrative frameworks for the institutions of the european union to achieve this objective. i would therefore suggest that the new commission submit a proposal as soon as possible and negotiate a common position with the council in order to fully ensure an open and continuous dialogue with citizens and their representative associations.
mr president, when i was still a young boy, my country was invaded by the soviets. at my primary school we had to learn several new songs. one of them was georgian in origin, about a girl whose name was suliko. the occupation was bad in every way; only that song was nice. many years have passed, and recently we came across this girl suliko again, this time with her dark eyes full of tears and showing signs of having been beaten. she was abused once more a year ago – robbed, beaten and raped. we the 27 eu gentlemen are staring at her afterwards and talking in a strange manner: how it could happen? what did she do wrong? did her behaviour irritate the rapist? that is exactly what he says: ‘she was provocative’! did she oppose his demands? that would be unwise: nobody, especially the robber and rapist, may be antagonised or demonised. she could have been more flexible, meeting the assaults softly, but she tried to defend herself for two full days – that was her greatest mistake. nobody can now say who the attacker was: he says she attacked him. that is the situation in a distant country court on the outskirts of europe, where the big landlord esquire cannot be sentenced in any case – but she can. thus we now have a fresh problem caused by her, as our business with mr rapist has been slightly damaged. the next time, mr rapist is given our special pill ‘mistral’ to increase his male capacities. ladies and gentlemen in europe, do not waver around the next war in this way.
thank you, mr president, mr commissioner. i have to go. in fact, we lithuanians also had this experience in 2006 with the introduction of the euro and unfortunately we were short of a percentage. nevertheless, i would like to thank you very much, mr commissioner, for the period that has elapsed, for the work that has been done and for the very good cooperation. now for the problem of the day. i think that the conditions have indeed changed and there have indeed been good proposals to review some things. i am not suggesting the maastricht criteria at all, but i am suggesting very basic things that determine the degree of price regulation in each country. and that's the various mechanisms of exchange rates and many other things. i would like to thank mr verhofstadt for suggesting that we should sit down in a calm manner in the future to consider how we can help the countries of eastern europe, the baltic states, because unemployment is really ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
in writing. i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on the constructive and effective implementation of the objectives of its programme. sweden has worked hard to bring the treaty of lisbon into force on 1 december this year, which means that the european union will become more democratic, more efficient and more transparent. i am confident that the treaty will improve continuity and strengthen the union's role in the international arena. the swedish presidency adopted the baltic sea strategy. i am pleased that the baltic sea strategy is being supported financially. as a lithuanian, i am well aware of the great challenges facing the baltic sea region today. one of them is 'how can we best address the urgent and serious environmental problems in the baltic sea?' next how can the baltic sea region become a more active engine of economic growth and development? the preliminary answers to these questions can already be found in the strategy for the baltic region adopted during the swedish presidency. this is the first of several european macro-regional development plans which are expected to improve the region's environment and enhance its competitiveness. the stockholm programme strategy is one of the key priorities for sweden to achieve. this five-year programme will allow for the further development of an area of freedom, security and justice.
for the ecr group dear prime minister, belarus, a country in central europe, is the historical cradle of the grand duchy of lithuania. a principality that defended the values of western civilization on its northeastern periphery. it is therefore good that the council conclusions of 17 november this year provide for new opportunities for dialogue and for increased cooperation between the european union and belarus. but we have to move from language and gesture to concreteness. let's start with human relationships. they need to be strengthened by involving belarus in european and regional processes. i have asked the commission to draw up recommendations on the basis of the directives on visa facilitation as a matter of urgency. and its total elimination within the 50 km border zone. in the heart of europe, people must have the right and the opportunity to move freely in both directions.
for six years in the european parliament, i have maintained and continue to maintain that the best service the european union can provide to the citizens of belarus and the eu, especially those living in the vicinity of this country, is not through sanctions or restrictions, but by opening the widest possible doors for people, especially young people, to communicate and to have the closest possible contacts in the fields of business, culture, science and other fields. it is very good that for the second year brussels has been pragmatically seeking change by getting closer to belarus and its people. yes, the policy has not yet produced all the results expected, but it would be unfair to go back to the past. i therefore support the action of the council and the commission, in particular the perspective of the action plan for belarus. two years ago, when new eu countries joined the schengen agreement, the remnants of the berlin wall shifted, so to speak, to the east. whereas previously residents of lithuania, latvia, poland and belarus, often linked by family ties, could drive to each other without any taxes, now belarusians pay almost half a month's salary for a schengen visa. we must break down these bureaucratic and financial barriers as quickly as possible. on the other hand, the actions of minsk in delaying the agreement on facilitating border crossings for residents with lithuania and other states cast doubt on the good intentions of the authorities. in belarus, about 30% of the population according to polls are in favour of better relations with the european union. 28% of the population would like better relations with russia. but there is no contradiction. the european union is certainly not seeking to separate belarus from russia or to oppose it. the reforms are not for the west, but for the belarusians themselves. well, and active economic modernisation, participation in the eastern partnership policy can help to do that.
president-in-office of the council. − vessels have been the subject of questions during question time on numerous occasions. the council has informed the turkish authorities and the turkish government and its representatives that good cooperation in the region is a prerequisite for further discussions on this. it has also asked the turkish authorities to refrain from different provocative actions. it has been very clear, and you can find those answers, some of which have been given by myself very recently. discussions are ongoing. they have been mandated. as i said, i cannot tell you exactly at what stage they are because they are ongoing but they follow the usual procedure and, to answer your question, we are also having discussions with senegal and cape verde. we have started, but have made very little progress, with morocco, egypt and mauritania. this is the usual procedure. they are being followed. the frontex board has been mandated to start those negotiations. some are more successful than others. we have, for instance, cooperation with russia, moldova, ukraine, georgia, etc., but less progress has been made in other areas.
president-in-office of the council. − developments are ongoing as we speak in copenhagen, but i will try to give you the latest. they are two major issues as you are well aware: mitigation and financing. as the prime minister said this morning, we are still confident that we can have a successful outcome in copenhagen which allows us to keep the global temperature increase below 2oc above the pre-industrial level. the eu is playing a key role – a bridge-building role – in a process with a view to ultimately reaching a legally binding agreement: hopefully a politically binding agreement now, with a clear timetable to reach a legally binding agreement for the period starting 1 january 2013. but reaching an agreement requires convergence on the following essential building blocks. firstly, deep and ambitious emission reduction commitments by the developed countries by 2020. some countries, japan and norway, have upped their pledges but it is clear that what is currently on the table is not enough to reach the 2°c target. in this context the eu will reiterate its demands to other developed countries to take on an ambitious agenda, and to continue to seek measurable, reportable and verifiable mitigation actions by developing countries. the larger developing countries have put their bids to limit their growth of emissions on the table – china, india, indonesia, brazil, south africa and south korea – and this accounts for significant contributions. however, the council believes that there is a larger potential for actions to come from these countries, especially china and india. it is also clear that more is needed if we want to stay within the 2°c warming. the eu will therefore ask them to increase their efforts further in the context of an ambitious agreement. we also need a framework for adapting to climate changes as well as for technology transfer and capacity building. we need financing in the framework of a fair and equitable governance system for mitigation, adaptation, capacity building and technology transfer to developing countries. in this context, the last european council concerning the figure for fast-start financing for the first three years gives an important impetus to the ongoing negotiations; that also strengthens the credibility of the european union. heads of state and government are now approaching copenhagen. we hope that they will provide the necessary political impetus on the crucial issues of mitigation and financing. so hopefully, an ambitious deal can be struck. the eu has put forward proposals that the negotiation for a legally binding treaty for the period starting 1 january 2013 should be finalised as soon as possible after the copenhagen conference. when this can be achieved is too early to say, but we should aim for a deal within six months after the finalisation of the conference.
president-in-office of the council. − i think as the real political negotiations will start tomorrow with, as you say, prime ministers and presidents coming from all over the world, we should not talk about a plan ‘b’ already. i think they can assert the input, strength and dynamics to create an ambitious, political commitment. should it not be possible to reach it – well, we will just have to continue to talk. there is no way we will give up. the world is expecting results from us. this is the most important question of our generation; we cannot fail. if we do not reach a deal tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we will keep on talking until we reach a deal.
president-in-office of the council. − as the honourable member rightly points out, climate financing for developing countries is an essential element of the negotiations in copenhagen and it will be key to reaching an agreement. to start with, i would like to point out again that at the october european council we stressed the importance of fast-start financing in order to initiate immediate actions and to prepare for collective and efficient action in the medium and longer term with a special emphasis on these developed countries. at the december council a few days ago, the eu and its member states expressed their readiness to allocate eur 2.4 billion a year for the years 2010-2012 to help developing countries in their fight against climate change. with this commitment i think we did send a very strong message to the negotiators at their ongoing conference and strengthened our credibility. the european council furthermore recognised the need for a significant increase in public and private financial flows up to 2020. the current financial architecture needs to be revised and, where necessary, reformed in order to ensure its capacity to meet the challenge. as you have pointed out in your question, the october european council has endorsed the commission estimate that a total net incremented cost of adaptation and mitigation in developing countries could amount to around eur 100 billion per year by 2020, to be met through a combination of developing countries’ own efforts, the international carbon market and international public finance; and this is what the commission has estimated the need to be. it is not an offer or a bid from the eu. there is also a wide range of other estimates from other sources, but it is the commission estimate that the council has endorsed and believes to be the best assessment. the overall level of international public support required is estimated to lie in the range of eur 22 billion to eur 50 billion per year to 2020. the eu and its member states are ready to take a fair share of that amount, but all countries except the poorest ones should contribute to international public financing through a comprehensive distribution key based on emission levels and gdp. and as the european council stressed in october, the copenhagen agreement needs to include provisions on the objective that global warming should not exceed 2°c, ambitious emission reduction commitments by developed countries, adaptation technology and a deal on financing.
president-in-office of the council. − regarding the first question, there have been numerous bilateral meetings during the autumn in order to try to facilitate and prepare for the negotiations. the eu is in constant contact with the united states of america trying to push and to call for a more ambitious statement from them. they, in their turn, have their own bilateral contacts; on some of these occasions we have been involved and in some not, because we are trying to push from different corners. we have also had six bilateral meetings during the swedish presidency with important stakeholders such as china, india, ukraine, south africa, russia and the united states. climate issues have been top of the agenda on all these occasions, so there has been a wide variety of meetings. regarding financing, it is a combination of old and new money, i must say. some countries have made a mixture. some have already allocated parts of their development budget. as the least-developed countries are the ones who will suffer mostly from climate change, therefore it is logical that certain parts of the development budget are pinpointed to different kinds of climate actions. now, as a consequence of the economic crisis, many member states have lowered their ambitions on their total development budgets, and that is deplorable. it is a combination, and that is also very much due to the fact of the economic crisis.
acting president of the council. - measures to improve accessibility are crucial in the fight against discrimination, as the honourable member points out in his question. during the swedish presidency we have continued to examine at technical level the proposed directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. it covers four grounds of discrimination not yet covered in the area of employment: religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. on 30 november 2009, the council took note of a presidency progress report which highlights the need to work further on the issue, in particular as regards the scope, the provisions on disability and the timetable for implementation. the presidency has also reported that the specific question of 'the design' or 'the manufacture of goods' would also be covered by the proposal. this needs to be discussed further. the progress report shows that there are further questions to be resolved regarding the financial implications of the directive. in order to reach political agreement, we must produce a text that can be accepted by all the member states. all member states must agree before we can move forward in the council. i cannot, however, prejudge the outcome of the negotiations. discussions on implementation, date and scope are still ongoing and will continue for some time.
president-in-office of the council. − i definitely agree with the honourable member about the need for such a directive. there are still millions of people in the european union who do not have access to the most ordinary things in life. this hinders their freedom and the possibility of their living a normal life and i deplore that very much. the council discussions are taking a lot of time. it is a ground-breaking proposal and it has a broad scope with enormous practical and financial implications. unanimity will be needed between the member states and after that the consent of the european parliament before the directive can be adopted. we have had negotiations. we had lots of working groups within the council. we have made progress but, unfortunately – i have to be very honest with you – we have not reached the consensus that is required yet. but we will continue until the end of our presidency, and i am quite optimistic that the spanish presidency will do their utmost to reach a solution.
acting president of the council. - we are all aware of the social difficulties arising from the economic crisis. it is essential to protect in particular groups or persons in vulnerable situations and to combat exclusion. we know that the potential of people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups is often not exploited because of discrimination. in this context, the council has consistently stressed the importance of promoting access to the labour market for people with disabilities. this has been done in the framework of the lisbon strategy, including the current employment guidelines. in march 2008, the council also adopted, together with the governments of the member states, a resolution on the situation of persons with disabilities in the eu. the importance of integrating groups or persons in vulnerable situations into the labour market is also confirmed by the council in its conclusions of 13 november 2009, to which i referred in relation to the previous question. facilitating the entry of these groups into the labour market is also a prerequisite for long-term growth. i would like to recall the joint agreement of the european parliament and the council to designate 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i think that this decision should also cover access to education for all. in addition, the decision implies promoting equal access for all to information and communication technologies, especially in view of the needs of disabled people. another priority is the needs of disabled people and their families and other groups in vulnerable situations. we look forward to many initiatives which i am sure will be taken in the coming year. as regards the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, we realise that the lives of people with disabilities would be very positively affected if the commission's proposal were to become a reality. the council's working party on social affairs is still working on the text. as i said, we had a discussion on 30 november and prepared a progress report, but we were unable to reach a decision. we cannot prejudge the outcome of the negotiations which are still in progress, but it is essential that we arrive at a correct text, as this concerns legal certainty and the delimitation of the scope. and as i said, the member states must agree on the proposal. it is for them to assess the possible consequences of the economic recession in this context. once unanimity has been reached, the european parliament will of course also be asked to give its consent in accordance with article 19 of the new lisbon treaty.
i thank you, mr president, and thank you, minister wallström, for your reply, and i would also like to thank sweden for the fact that it was during the swedish presidency that the council of ministers of the european union acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it's a good step, but it's only one step. the fact is that the situation of our disabled people varies greatly from one member state to another. some deaf people cannot use sign language, and some blind people use a sign language assistant. people with mobility impairments do not have an environment adapted to them. and a large proportion of disabled people are simply not disabled. the disabled actually make up about 10% of the population in the european union. i know, mr minister, that there are some problems and difficulties with the anti-discrimination directive (that is what i would call it in general terms), but perhaps it would be preferable to have a separate directive on the rights of persons with disabilities. our directive, which would be binding on all european union countries, so that disabled people are not discriminated against.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution because the belarusians here today demonstrate the level of their engagement with the european union. despite a lot of talking on the belarusian side, only modest changes have so far taken place. most recently, we have heard from the opposition that the president intends to sign a decree limiting access to free information on the internet. the eu certainly needs to support belarus to draw it closer to europe, but first of all we need to engage with the belarusian people. it seems that now we are trying to engage with the belarusian authorities by suspending the travel bans, but the travel bans are still there for the ordinary people of belarus. eur 60 for the schengen visa is too expensive for the majority of belarusians. at the same time the price for russian citizens is half as much. the eu would not suffer if the citizens of belarus covered only the cost of the visa, which is not more than eur 5.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because the situation in congo is horrific. tens of thousands of people are killed in the country every month because of violence from the armed groups. the congolese armed forces are often at the centre of such crimes, using unrestrained force at times, and civilians are usually the victims of such violence. the situation of women is appalling, with sexual violence a specific problem in the country. there are reported rapes by almost all fighting parties, including the congolese army. we welcome the eu’s engagement in congo. european military engagement contributed to the prevention of a situation similar to the one in rwanda. the eu police mission is especially important, since the main problem congo faces is impunity and lack of criminal-prosecution capacity. however, in order to achieve significant progress we need more engagement from the international community. that is why more action needs to be conducted through the monuc and more resources have to be given to the united nations.
i'll write. - the resolution on the vote in belarus was voted with some reservations, as the european parliament's documents on the belarusian presidency are often not considered by it. on the other hand, while maintaining a critical tone towards the minsk regime, the resolution highlights in its annex some of the positive developments in eu-belarus relations. the eu and its member states' relations with belarus need to improve substantially once belarus has embarked on the path of democratisation. this shift would be facilitated by the development of the high representative's relations with this country. in lithuania, 39 cities have fruitful cooperation with the region. in belarus, cities have cooperation with the region, exchange experiences, participate in community projects. this resolution is welcomed because it calls for the eu to focus on specific projects that meet the interests of the partner countries. the resolution welcomed belarus, ukraine and lithuania as the first countries to submit tripartite projects to the european commission and the eu side of the eastern partnership programme. it lists concrete projects in the fields of border control, transport, transit, cultural and historical heritage, social and energy security.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, azerbaijan is an important partner of the european union. it is certainly an essential partner in efforts to ensure european energy security. however, no matter how important oil and gas are, they are not everything. azerbaijan has made commitments to work for a democratic and pluralistic society, as enshrined in the partnership and cooperation agreement and the eastern partnership policy, in which azerbaijan intends to participate fully. we should applaud steps in the right direction taken by president aliyev, for example to free 119 prisoners, including five journalists, at the end of 2007. however, the situation of media freedom is only getting worse. we have a number of cases to support this claim, such as the situation of bloggers, the licences of the bbc, radio free europe, etc. we must not shy away from reminding azerbaijan that people must have the right to speak out freely, even if this means having critical views towards their governments. that is the basic principle of a democratic society, and a democratic azerbaijan has to be an aim just as important as… (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the s&d group freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and the foundation of democracy. azerbaijan has ratified the european convention on human rights and has committed itself to the provisions of article 10 of that convention, which is devoted to freedom of expression and information. this article establishes the right of every individual to freedom of expression and to receive and impart information without interference from public authorities. azerbaijan is also committed to respecting human rights and individual freedoms and to promoting democratic principles in its participation in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. however, the right to freedom of expression and association has been under threat in azerbaijan recently, and media activity has been restricted. violence against journalists and civil society activists. i would urge azerbaijan to heed the european parliament's suggestions and calls for improvements in the human rights system and ensure respect for media freedoms.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, on behalf of the ppe group, i propose the following oral amendment to paragraph 7: the words ‘deplores the azerbaijani authorities’ decision not’ should be replaced with the words ‘urges the azerbaijani authorities’. the text should read as follows: ‘urges the azerbaijani authorities to renew the fm radio licences of a number of international broadcasters…’ and so on.
