member of the commission. - the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs klaß, mrs breyer, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament for their excellent work on the proposals for the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides and for the revision and improvement of the regulation. it is particularly gratifying that agreement was reached at second reading. the agreement ensures the environmental integrity of the commission's original proposal and sets even more ambitious environmental objectives in some important areas. the use of pesticides is known to be a major concern for the public. it was therefore necessary, on the one hand, to tighten up the existing legislative framework by amending the 1991 directive on the marketing of the products in question and, on the other hand, to fill in the gaps observed at community level at the stage of use of the products in question. by reaching agreement on the directive, the european union is demonstrating that it has the political will to take effective measures to protect the health of citizens and the environment. parliament has helped to make the directive more ambitious than the council's common position on a number of important points. in particular, member states will be required to draw up national action plans with quantitative targets both to reduce the risks of pesticide use and to reduce the use of certain products. this was not easy, as the rapporteur had to convince the member states that in some cases the appropriate means of reducing the risk is to reduce the use of certain pesticides. he did that successfully. the agreement reached is a major step forward in protecting public health and the environment in the european union. the european commission is therefore in a position to accept the compromise package of amendments in order to reach agreement on the directive at second reading.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, i wish to thank the rapporteurs mrs klaß and mrs breyer, the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the proposal, the french presidency, and all of you who have contributed to the successful conclusion of the second reading of the commission’s proposal. plant protection products play an important role in agriculture, horticulture, forestry and gardening. however, they can also have an impact on human health, animal health and the environment. we therefore need to ensure they are regulated in an effective and balanced way. in the preparation of the initial proposal, the commission held extensive consultations of stakeholders from all sectors concerned and it carried out a comprehensive impact assessment. the top priority was – and still is – to achieve the highest possible level of protection for human and animal health, and the environment. i am pleased to see that this is also reflected in the outcome of the discussions between the eu institutions. the draft compromise before us today would strengthen this high level of protection through several provisions. clear and strict criteria would be set for the approval of active substances. producers, suppliers and professional users would have to keep records to be made available upon request to third parties, such as neighbours, other residents or the water industry. member state authorities would have to tighten controls on marketing and use, and the commission would audit member states’ controls. duplicative testing on animals would be completely avoided. to promote sustainability in agriculture, safer alternatives would substitute the more hazardous products. in order to ensure comprehensive information, the commission may also look into the issue of availability of existing alternative products to substances being known as endocrine disruptors. this would happen, of course, without prejudging the safety requirements of the regulation. as part of the overall compromise, i would like to propose the following text in relation to the risk assessment to bees: ‘when revising the data requirements for active substances and plant protection products, as referred to in article 8(1) (b) and (c), the commission will pay particular attention to study protocols allowing a risk assessment which takes into account the real exposure of bees to these products, in particular through nectar and pollen.’ the draft compromise would create an even safer framework for the use of plant protection products in the european union, and would strengthen our environmental safeguards, and the protection of our citizens’ health. it also reflects the lisbon strategy, as it would reduce red tape. for example, the approval procedure would become shorter and more efficient. furthermore, member states would no longer work in isolation since mutual recognition of authorisations would become the norm rather than the exception. this should reduce fragmentation of the internal market and create wider availability of pesticides for farmers. finally, i would like to emphasise that it is fully compatible with, and complementary to, the proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, which falls under the responsibility of my colleague, commissioner dimas.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs, the commission and the institutions, especially the french presidency, for their efforts to find this compromise, which is a balanced compromise for human health and agricultural production. for farmers, the harmonization of the three zones' systems will facilitate access to products, a fund for minor uses, envisaged and guaranteed by the commission, will bring us market access to products for minor crops and gardening. so by 2020, we will have the assurance that all substances with proven harmful effects - cmrs, endocrine disruptors - will no longer be authorized for marketing. this proposal should thus significantly reduce diseases, the many cancers, whose relationship to pesticides is already scientifically proven, as well as degenerative diseases whose effects have also been proven. a very important point to be made is that efforts will now be made to ensure that the measures for the protection of bees are better respected, and the commission has just made a statement on this point. i would still like to know whether the commission will reconsider directive 2007/52 in the light of the aspects it has just mentioned. the emphasis will also be on biological control methods and, in this field, it is still necessary to achieve effective commercialization of this research, which has been supported and financed by the commission. i am confident that this text is a welcome and necessary incentive to stimulate research and innovation by the major producers of conventional chemical pesticides. as for the commission, the report provides for interim reports, so we are guaranteed follow-up and i hope that the national authorities will also try to prove that this text is valid.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to express the commission’s support for parliament’s amendments to the ucits iv proposal. this will facilitate the adoption of ucits iv modifications in a single reading. such an outcome will be a very welcome development for eu fund markets which have recently been confronted with many tough challenges. the proposal adopted by the commission last july is the outcome of a thorough process of consultation. it started before the financial crisis. it sets some clear objectives for improving the functioning of the ucits directive. bearing this in mind, the commission wanted to simplify and stimulate cross-border sales of ucits, provide fund managers with effective tools for increasing the size of their funds and benefit from economies of scale. however, it is not only about being competitive. the commission also wanted to put in place effective rules on investor disclosure ensuring that anybody wishing to invest its savings into a ucits should receive essential, clear and understandable information before taking his or her decision. i am pleased to note that the goals set by the commission proposal have been met. parliament and council have adjusted the commission’s proposal on mergers, master-feeder-structures, fund notification and key investor information, but the high-level ambitions set by the commission in its original proposal was fully respected. the commission is very pleased with the outcome of the codecision process as regards the chapters contained in its july proposal. on the subject of the management company passport – which became an important part of the proposal – initially at the time of the adoption of the proposal, the commission had serious concerns about the potential negative impact that an insufficiently prepared management company passport would have for the security and retail investors placing their money in ucits funds. looking back, i am convinced that our decision to consult the committee of european securities regulators on these issues was the right one. it helped parliament and the council to design sound provisions which would protect the interests of unit-holders. this was my one and only consideration dealing with the management company passport. we have come a long way since july 2008. the cesr advice has provided the basis for a comprehensive set of provisions that clarify respect for responsibilities, ensure full information flow and underpin the necessary cooperation and support to eu member state authorities. this is true at all stages: initial authorisation, ongoing supervision and enforcement. the commission can now sign up to the compromise text. our work in this is, however, not finished. the success of the management company passport depends on our ability to deal with some remaining complex issues, like risk management via level 2 measures. this work will also provide the occasion to tackle weaknesses in risk management that have become apparent in a small number of cases in recent times. very strict deadlines have been imposed on the commission in delivering these measures. we have expressed our concerns on the feasibility of these deadlines. we will need time and resources to carefully prepare these measures, to consult stakeholders and adopt them. the commission will endeavour to start this process as quickly as possible. we will also need the full and active cooperation of all actors, including this parliament, to be able to deliver on time. i would like to warmly thank again the rapporteur mr wolf klinz and express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of this file by parliament. all three institutions can be satisfied with the consensus that has been achieved in the space of only a few months. you have shown that europe can move speedily to bring about useful regulatory improvements. you must build on this achievement now and complete the ambitious programme of implementing legislation. finally, let me conclude by making two statements which the commission agrees to make in relation to the adoption of this report. firstly, regarding the issue of taxation of cross-border mergers. the commission will undertake to examine the potentially adverse impact that national taxation systems may have on cross-border mergers and use its funds once the proposed provisions are adopted. the commission will in particular examine the potential cases of adverse tax consequences for investors. on the issue of supervision, i have been vocal about the need to strengthen supervisory cooperation. in solvency ii and in the amendments to the capital requirements directive, the commission has, on my recommendation, put forward proposals to strengthen supervisory cooperation. i therefore have no difficulty in agreeing on the need to push forward in this crucial domain. therefore, in order to ensure consistency and coherence in all relevant financial sector regulation, the commission agrees, on the basis of the conclusions of the de larosière report, to examine the need to strengthen the provisions of this directive related to supervisory cooperation arrangements.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, i have mixed feelings about the proposal for a directive which parliament is about to vote on. it is true that the rapporteur, mr klinz, has been doing a long-term job for years and has negotiated with talent, particularly during the trilogue. it is also true that the directive brings a number of significant advances towards a better functioning of the internal market and collective management of financial assets, which are welcomed as such by the european investment fund industry. the debate and discussion in the council and parliament has never been entirely free, however, since the outcome was known in advance: for some actors it was necessary, at all costs, to introduce the european passport for management companies. the principle is clear, the passport is perfectly justified, but we must also ensure that the introduction of the passport for management companies is accompanied by the necessary guarantees, particularly in the area of fund supervision, since it leads to a dissociation of functions across borders. i regret to say that the system we have in place is not only complex but also subject to different interpretations. it is likely to run into practical difficulties which will harm the european export funds industry, particularly in relation to exports to third countries. i'm aware of the fact that i'm in a minority position, but i'm not uncomfortable with it. normally i would have been tempted to say that only practice will allow definitive conclusions to be drawn in this area and thus determine who is right, those who trust in the adaptability of market players or those who stick to a more cautious approach. it is not excluded that success will be at the end, but on the other hand, there is no guarantee either. the very recent news, particularly the madoff scandal and its implications for the collective management of financial assets industry, is not designed to reassure us. skepticism is followed by anxiety. the investment fund industry will not be spared by the financial crisis, as we can see right now. fundamental changes may be needed. that in this context of deep crisis we are making choices which dilute the responsibilities of the actors or which presuppose perfect cooperation between the supervisory authorities can really be seen as an incongruity. i say as i think: this directive is also from a bygone era, from before the crisis. she's marked by a certain recklessness. the financial system is going through a lasting and fundamental crisis of confidence, and whole parts of its architecture need to be re-designed. the first function of the cmos is to protect investors by diversifying risks and establishing strict rules. by voting this text as it stands, without really knowing where we are going, we are acting as if nothing had happened. this autism does not bode well, which is why i shall abstain, even though i have signed the compromise amendments negotiated with the council. in view of the circumstances, the improvements made seem to me to be of little weight in the face of the questions of principle which i have just set out.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, in these uncertain times, it is important to be able to rely on a safe value: the euro. as i was able to play a small part in the preparations for the future common currency at the ecofin council, i can testify to the doubts of both sides, to the false hesitation of the member states which, in the end, made the eurogroup a form of enhanced cooperation before the letter. the two greatest achievements of europe were born of the will of a few states to make progress in terms of integration that is tangible for all our citizens. i am talking about the schengen treaty and the free movement of europeans, which was put into effect thanks to the initiative of five states: mitterrand's france and kohl's germany, as well as the benelux countries. today, switzerland has joined the schengen area, but the british and irish still reject this europe of the people. mitterrand and kohl were also the political fathers of the euro, although this monetary victory has many fathers, beginning with jacques delors. the first lesson i would like to draw from this is that all those who want a better europe should not be afraid of intergovernmental action, especially if there is a coalition of states that really want to move europe forward. the prüm treaty, which makes it possible to combat serious crime, is an example of this enhanced cooperation which is positive for europe. at a time when the constitutional treaty is buried, following the no of a strange coalition of french but also dutch political forces; at a time when the indigestible paving stone known as the mini-lisbon treaty is still stuck in ireland and perhaps in the czech republic, we should prove the european way by walking on the vast plateau of enhanced cooperation. in any case, the attractiveness of the euro remains intact. after slovenia, slovakia has just joined us. others are bitter that they cannot take advantage of the euro's protective shield. even in britain there are voices questioning the splendid isolation of the united kingdom in the face of the collapse of the pound, which, from being the world's reserve currency, has fallen to the status of a currency of some kind in less than a century. the euro, thanks to the consistent action of wim duisenberg, jean-claude trichet and their peers, has become the second reserve currency of the world in ten years. of course, in international transactions the "king dollar" remains dominant and is still a safe-haven value. but the abysmal debts accumulated by the united states to finance its way of life by the rest of the world will sow more and more doubts about the ability of the world's leading economic power to honor its commitments. in fact, the financial world is moving towards a dollar/euro duopoly. the euro area is a highly competitive market, with a high level of foreign exchange reserves and a high level of foreign exchange reserves. but in these times of widespread recession, the world needs stability, new certainties. the euro will be a central element of this new stability. the ecb did the right thing in dealing with the international financial crisis made in the usa. as jacques delors said, the euro is the shield of the whole of europe, but so far the euro has not given the european economy enough dynamism. the ecb is responsible only for monetary policy. the commission is, after all, only a luxury consultant making proposals which are generally useful, but the real economic actors are still the states, which unfortunately act in a dispersed manner. while effective coordination of the combined economic strength of the 27 member states could work wonders, the eurogroup, despite the laudable efforts of jean-claude juncker, remains an informal discussion club. in the spring of 1999, at the eurogroup, i witnessed the attempt by some of the finance ministers, lafontaine, strauss-kahn, ciampi and others, to initiate economic and monetary cooperation between the european union and the central bank. wim duisenberg's answer was scathing: "there will never be ex-ante coordination with the central bank, you will always have to react ex-post to our decisions". the case is heard, the ecb is and will remain independent in the conduct of monetary policy. but independence does not prevent constructive dialogue between institutions responsible for defending the interests and the common destiny of 500 million europeans. and nothing prevents the states from organising themselves better in terms of the real coordination of their economic policies, whether within the union or, above all, in the external representation of europe, as jean-claude juncker has just so wisely concluded.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the 'pesticide package' in protest against the undemocratic method of submitting to the european parliament compromises negotiated in informal trilogues between the council, the commission and representatives of the european parliament, which are based solely on compromises reached in a single parliamentary committee. in fact, by sparing a genuine democratic debate on first reading, not only is the right of amendment of any member of parliament being curtailed, but european legislation is being drawn up which defies all democratic transparency. the legislation finally adopted is in many respects excessive, bureaucratic and counterproductive.
in writing. - i have accepted the two compromises reached in difficult trilogue negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission. plant protection products are indispensable in modern agriculture. they are a guarantee of the optimum use of agricultural land in europe to ensure high-quality food production. i am naturally pleased that my resolution adopted here in november has been taken into account by giving special consideration to bee toxicity when authorizing, so that plant protection products which are demonstrably harmful to bees are not authorized. the goal is efficiency: that is, as much as necessary, as little as possible. a linear reduction in the number of resources would be insane. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. i am sure that i still have some reservations about the actual impact of the regulation on agriculture, viticulture and horticulture in terms of their supply of plant protection products and their pricing. we are also still in the dark about the impact on the industrial sectors concerned. a comprehensive impact assessment is essential in this respect. i am glad that luxembourg is now in a zone with belgium and germany, which means that our farmers and winegrowers can use the same resources on this side of the border and across the border. the problem with france must be solved with common sense.
member of the commission. − in reply to mr papastamkos, let me refer to the report in 2005. we did say at that particular time that we would keep the activities of credit rating agencies on watch, and in 2007, when the subprime crisis reached its peak, i met with the credit rating agencies and expressed our dissatisfaction as to how we perceived they had conducted their affairs. the questioner will be aware that in december 2007 i wrote to cesr and to esme for further advice as to what i should do in relation to certain areas. i made quite clear in speeches and in comments at that time that leaving the status quo as it was just not an option. as a consequence, we came forward with the commission proposal in 2008 and that mater is now being debated by parliament and the council of ministers. i think that in the past, when keeping the activities of the credit rating agencies under review, i made it quite clear that we would consider the matter in the light of changing circumstances. and in the words of a person in the last century, far more famous than me – when the facts change, we change too. and that is what has occurred. mr ryan, as to what we will do in the areas of financial regulation to which he has alluded – the proposals on credit rating agencies and the capital requirements directive – he put forward a legitimate question concerning what the european union was doing to address the problems in the real economy because although the changes to do with financial regulation has undoubtedly been timely in areas where there was a lacuna in financial regulation, it in itself is not going to galvanise and kick start the european economy. mr ryan will be aware that in the past couple of months the commission was at the centre of coordinating the approach of financial stimulus which was adopted by the european council at its december meeting. of course it still remains the prerogative of member states to affect their own financial stimulus if they deem it appropriate because those matters remain the prerogatives of the member state governments. but the commission in responding to that stimulus package also committed some funding within our remit and coordinated with the agreement of the other european players as to how we will kick-start things there. i remember even before that we did adopt in the commission some initiatives which should help to stimulate small business activity in the sme sector – such as the small business act, such as the european private company statute – and hopefully they will contribute in some small way to assisting in the turn around of the general economy in the european union.
member of the commission. − at this time of financial crisis and economic recession, both european governments and the european institutions need to show determination and flexibility, as mentioned by president barroso in the preface to the recently adopted european economic recovery plan. to show this flexibility, the commission will, for instance, put in place a simplification package to speed up decision-making on state aid, allow for the use of accelerated procedures in public procurement in 2009 and 2010 for all major public projects, and request that member states take corrective action in case of any excessive deficit in timeframes consistent with economic recovery to allow their economies to adjust. however, this flexibility does not mean that the commission has changed or will change the rules of the internal market. a modernised approach to policies set out in the single market review of november 2007 needs to be pursued further as foreseen. the 16 december 2008 progress report called ‘the single market review: one year on’ highlights a series of recently adopted measures that will help create the conditions to relaunch the european economy. they include, most of all, stronger contractual rights to enhance consumer confidence, lower costs and administrative burdens, and a single company statute for smes. it is also evident that we need to restructure the european regulatory and supervisory framework in order to minimise the risk of future crises. over the year, we have been working alongside parliament and the council to, among other things, increase protection for bank depositors, dissuade banks and other financial institutions from taking excessive risks in the future and better regulate the credit rating agencies. the rapid adoption and implementation of these proposals is elementary. we need to demonstrate that europe can provide concrete answers. over the coming months, the commission will formulate in a comprehensive manner how the current regulatory and supervisory framework should be further reformed to bring back stability and confidence. we should strive for a more stable system that does a correspondingly better job in providing opportunities to trade, hedge, diversify and pool risk, allocate resources and mobilise savings. this calls, among other things, for better cooperation and coordination between national regulators and supervisors, as well as avoiding any protectionism. to foster longer economic growth we need to reduce the cost of capital and to enhance capital allocation. it will clearly require a further strengthening of the internal market. this flexibility certainly does not mean any changes to the single market principles. on the contrary: at a time of financial economic downturn, both european governments and european institutions need to hold firmly to the principles of the single market. it is essential that any measures to tackle the crisis are guided by the fundamental freedoms and the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality. for instance, a framework for national rescue plans is already in place to prevent any negative spill-over effects amongst uncoordinated national actions. a level playing field which has benefited member states’ consumers and businesses so much since 1992 needs to be maintained and safeguarded. this is essential as any measure which would undermine the single market could further aggravate the impact of the financial crisis on the wider economy.
member of the commission. − i undoubtedly agree with mr mitchell when he says that protectionism is not the answer. but i am sure that there are many member states which probably see a possible opportunity to engage in some protectionist measures, but i would say two things on that. firstly, we will be vigilant in enforcing eu law in order to prevent any measures which are contrary to the rules of the european union. secondly, i would say to those member states: if people believe in that particular approach, it would be my view and i know that of mr mitchell that that would prolong the duration of the economic downturn. but there have always been differences of opinion regarding this particular approach and there are probably many members on other sides of this house who would not agree with either myself or mr mitchell. i also agree with mr mitchell that it would be appropriate to balance all this negative talk of economic downturn – which there is – with a sense of realism and not to be overly pessimistic. i am afraid that in the world in which we live – whether it is in the member state we know best or in other member states – there has always been a predisposition to concentrate maybe overly on the negativity of the economic downturn. now we have to balance this with realism because there has to be realism in economic forecasting as well and people will have to be realistic. but there is a balance to be struck between being overly pessimistic and being realistic. confidence is a very fragile thing and it takes a long time to recover it and it can be gone in a flash. so, i welcome the comments of the president of the european central bank in today’s paper as to the scene in the next couple of years. but, as i said, there should be this balance and people should be aware of where this balance should be struck. mr crowley asked a legitimate question as to what arrangements we have made to discuss these economic and financial matters with the us administration. there is a very strict protocol in place in the united states, as you are undoubtedly aware, even for people who are in the transition administration as to what is done by them and they guard it religiously. but as soon as the new administration is in place, we will be in contact with the new treasury secretary. we already have a lot of fora in which we discuss matter, such as the transatlantic economic council, the financial markets regulatory dialogue, which are ongoing the whole time. as soon as the new obama administration takes office next week, we will be making contact with our new counterparts in that regard.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposals in the so-called pharmaceutical package which i am presenting here tonight at the request of parliament have a general guiding principle. it's about strengthening the rights, needs and interests of patients in our health care systems. the patient, we understand, is not a mere object of the services of health care providers or of the commercial interests of the pharmaceutical industry. the patient is a mature citizen for whom health is the most important asset and who has the right to have the best and safest therapies and medicines available. the patient is the subject of health policy. but health or its restoration is not just a claim. there is also an obligation to take care of it yourself through healthy eating, healthy living and active participation in treatment if such treatment has become necessary. our proposal to improve monitoring of the actual effects of authorized medicines, for example, requires this active participation of patients. if patients don't report any abnormalities with the medication they're taking, the surveillance goes to waste. the same applies to the protection against counterfeit medicines. the patient can and should in future also take care for himself that his medicine is not counterfeit by making sure that the pack actually has all the safety features prescribed in the future. if we consider the active, informed patient to be indispensable for health care, for monitoring medicines or for protection against counterfeiting, then it is not understandable why patients should be denied access to information on the most important medicines. the package therefore consists of four parts: a political communication and three legislative proposals on pharmacovigilance, falsification of medicinal products and patient information. the rapidly increasing number of counterfeit medicines has forced us to act. the number of counterfeit medicines seized at the eu's external borders almost quadrupled in 2007 compared with 2005. sooner or later, the first deaths will occur if we don't act now. the problem has reached the legal supply chain of medicines. we've detected counterfeit medicines at various stages of the supply chain. each case involves thousands of packages and potentially thousands of patients who are affected. patients in europe should continue to be able to rely on the unlimited quality of their medicines, which they buy from legal dealers such as pharmacies. we therefore propose: firstly, clear rules for all those involved in the legal distribution chain; secondly, increased controls on medicinal products for transit or export; thirdly, state-of-the-art safety features for medicinal products at particular risk, namely a seal, a recognition mark and a barcode to ensure the full traceability of each individual package; and fourthly, specifications for the safety monitoring of active substances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. the sole aim of the proposal is to improve patient safety. it is not a question of preventing a particular form of distribution of medicines, such as parallel trade. there has been a remarkable campaign of information, i would almost say disinformation, by the industry concerned. but i want to make it clear again: parallel trade in medicinal products is and remains an activity permitted under the ec treaty. parallel traders, like all other participants in the distribution chain, only have to comply with the new safety requirements. no one is favoured here, and no one is disadvantaged here. the pharmacovigilance legislation proposal, which aims to monitor medicines already authorised, is a good example of how less bureaucracy can create more safety, while at the same time ensuring patient safety and reducing unnecessary administrative burdens. this will be done by clarifying responsibilities and making reporting more efficient. in addition, manufacturers must have an efficient monitoring system in place. community-wide access to reports of undesirable or unknown adverse reactions will greatly facilitate community-wide risk management. finally, the package contains a proposal for improved patient information. i know that this is a very controversial question, which has been the subject of much debate in this house, and i hope that we will be able to deal with this matter calmly, objectively and without any polemics. patients have a right to information, which is particularly true of medicines. health is one of our most valuable assets, if not the most important. the importance of good health will increase in an ageing society, and in a democratic society it is therefore natural that patients should be able to obtain comprehensive information on matters affecting their health. i have to say very clearly, and this is a really fundamental principle of a democratic society: it is not the fact that information should be provided that needs to be justified, but the fact that citizens are not provided with information. patients are already actively seeking information. we all know this from our circle of friends, from our circle of acquaintances, perhaps even from our own family, when we are dealing with a seriously ill person, how desperate they are, or their relatives and friends, in many cases really desperate, to find information about whether there is a better medicine for them, a better treatment available to them. and these people get on the internet. they are exposed to information from other parts of the world that they cannot distinguish between advertising and factual information. this is a condition which i consider to be inhuman and which we should not tolerate. i want to make it very clear that the status quo we have today is not meeting the patient's need for quality information. it also creates a disparity in treatment: those who know english and can use the internet have access to information, those who do not know english and cannot use the internet do not. it is particularly important for the elderly to be able to receive factual information. if it is an american medicine - that is the situation we have in europe today - the information is available, if it is a european medicine, it is not. the starting point for our considerations is the fact that the ban on advertising prescription medicines must not be relaxed under any circumstances and that there is a big difference between information and advertising. it is therefore proposed that certain information be disclosed, in particular that which has already been checked by the authorities and which is, for example, on the package leaflet of medicinal products. secondly, this information may only be published on the internet in written answers to specific questions or in the health-related publication defined by member states. thirdly, strict quality criteria must be observed and fourthly, member states must establish effective control mechanisms. the control should in principle be carried out before publication. exceptions are possible only within the framework of adequately effective systems. i would also like to inform you that, of course, in the matter of patient information and advertising of medical products, there is a grey area which the individual cannot see through, a grey area in which information of all kinds is disseminated through all kinds of media under the editorial responsibility of these media, but very often this information is controlled by interested parties - to put it very carefully - without the reader being able to see from which source and from which interested party this information comes. i will work with the media and with the pharmaceutical industry to establish a code of conduct to ensure that these more than questionable practices are stopped in the future. but to do that, we need a better, more modern solution to the patient information problem. this is a package of very modern, very progressive proposals, a package which is the consequence of the growing importance which citizens attach to questions concerning their own health. i hope that the european parliament will support this. thank you, thank you.
madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner two specific questions. do you intend to create a means of preventing a magazine, which is distributed free of charge in pharmacies in germany and is subtly financed by the pharmaceutical industry, from being affected by this directive? another issue concerns the names of medicines in crossborder regions. often the names are different, but the substances in the drugs are the same. could there be a way of making life easier for citizens living in cross-border areas?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i would like to begin by saying something about mrs corbey's remarks. firstly, i gave the go-ahead years ago to the creation of a european database on prescription medicines. the work is progressing well, so this database will be available in the foreseeable future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let me be clear again: the commission is firmly opposed to allowing advertising or advertising, or whatever you want to call it, for prescription medicines in europe. no way! i'm not going to do that. but i must disagree with you as much if you give the impression that there is no difference between information and advertising. anyone who says that there is no difference between information and advertising is insulting the hundreds of thousands of journalists who demonstrate to you every day in their work, in their newspapers, on the radio or on television, that there is a very real difference between information and advertising. the rules we make are so precise and so precise that the distinction between information and advertising cannot be blurred. the information must relate to information already approved by the licensing authority. it must be approved before it is published and it is subject to strict quality control. i really don't know how anyone can think this is about advertising. mr schlyter raised the question of vaccines. i have to be clear here: vaccines are not freely available, of course. vaccines are usually distributed to citizens by public health authorities through so-called information campaigns aimed at achieving the highest possible vaccination density. that is true, but of course, the same applies to vaccines - i completely agree with you - that the difference between information and advertising must be taken into account. the question of counterfeiting medicines is not about intellectual property. the reason why medicines are counterfeited is not because of a dispute over intellectual property, but because they are already authorised. that means the intellectual property issues are settled. medicines are counterfeited for pure, naked profit. this is not a matter of intellectual property infringement, it's a criminal wrong. it's at least assault, if not attempted murder, when medication is counterfeited. but it has nothing to do with intellectual property issues. i would like to draw your attention to a statistic from the european medicines agency which dealt with the question of what can be done to improve patient information. in the uk, 5% of all people who have to go to hospital are those who are hospitalized because they have been given the wrong medication, that is, because they have been given a medication that they cannot tolerate or that they should not have been given. 5% of all hospital cases in the uk are due to wrong medication or the wrong medicine. we know that this could have been avoided in 50% of all cases if patients had been informed of the nature of the medication they were receiving. but they had no access to that information. i would also like to make this point to the health authorities in the member states, who are not very enthusiastic about the informed patient, because they think that the informed patient is demanding and wants the more expensive medicine. this statistic proves that it can even save costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. this is also the case in some member states. but it is also true - if i think, for example, of the very famous pharmacy review in my home country - that advertising is prohibited for these magazines and brochures. they also cannot print advertisements for prescription drugs. i said something about the grey area, the advertising that you mentioned. yes, there are. we know about these practices and our proposals are aimed at actually eliminating this kind of advertising which we see in many areas today. as far as the border regions are concerned, the situation described is linked to the fact that we still have, in essence, a national authorization for medicinal products. european approval is the exception, not the rule. this means that the manufacturer allows his medicinal product to be placed on the various markets in the member states and that no one can prevent him from registering and approving his medicinal product under different names. that's the problem. if a medicinal product has a european marketing authorisation, it will appear everywhere in europe - including in border regions - under the same brand name. i think, mrs doyle, that we cannot transfer the question of the issues at stake one-to-one from human medicine to veterinary medicine. i think the structures here are very different. for example, animals cannot inform themselves about the drug at all. we have a very different ratio of demand to supply. i am very much prepared to deal with this problem, but i would like to point out that as you know, we have already made a proposal on the question of residues.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schlyter, for the intensive work he has done on this proposal. we have now reached a good compromise with the council which can be adopted at first reading. the aim is to restrict the placing on the market of dichloromethane and its use in paint strippers in order to reduce the risks we have identified in several large studies carried out on behalf of the commission. there is no doubt that dichloromethane is dangerous to human health because of its high volatility. this volatility results in the formation of highly concentrated fumes in the ambient air, which are easily inhaled by the users of paint absorbers and then have a direct toxic effect on the central nervous system. this, combined with poor working or operating conditions, has led to or at least contributed to fatal accidents in several member states. most accidents and deaths occurred in the industrial and occupational sectors, mainly due to inadequate ventilation and the use of personal protective equipment. but consumers also suffered accidents, although the number of known accidents is much lower. the commission proposal aims to reduce the risks posed by this dangerous chemical as far as is technically possible and acceptable. the text as amended by parliament and the council now provides for a complete ban on the supply of dichloromethane-containing colourants to consumers. it is also intended to prohibit the use of this substance by consumers, as consumers do not generally have the necessary personal protective equipment and cannot be trained or monitored to ensure safe use. the placing on the market and use by professionals is generally prohibited. however, as some member states consider the use by professionals to be essential in the future, those member states will be given the possibility to continue to allow the use under certain strict conditions. these member states must then adopt specific licensing rules and rules for the licensing of professionals in the way that best fits into national systems. the training of specialists is the only way to obtain a licence. such training shall include knowledge of the hazards of dichloromethane and the availability of substitutes. employers and self-employed persons should preferably substitute dichloromethane with other substances or processes, taking into account the relevant occupational safety and health regulations. the use of paint strippers containing dichloromethane is still permitted in industrial installations, provided that all necessary precautions are taken to reduce the exposure of workers. for example, adequate ventilation must be provided to ensure that workplace limit values are respected where possible. measures to minimise evaporation from cutting containers shall be taken. in addition, personal respiratory protection equipment must be worn when workplace limit values are not respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i also think that this compromise creates a good balance and i therefore feel able to support it wholeheartedly on behalf of the commission.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and confirm that we worked very well together to find this compromise. the epp supports this compromise. attention should be drawn to the fact that this product is highly toxic and that there are nonetheless viable and safe alternatives. the dangers of the use of dichloromethane cannot be denied, as you have pointed out, commissioner, especially if it is used in conditions which do not ensure the safety of those who use it. often dichloromethane is used by individuals who are doing restoration work in their homes and who find this product effective and wonderful, but do not realize that by using this product in a closed environment, they may lose consciousness very quickly and there is even a danger of death if one is not careful. contrary to the extreme position of a complete ban, first proposed by the rapporteur, the compromise proposal we have found now allows member states to derogate from the ban for professional and industrial use but under clearly defined conditions. this is a valid compromise and it should be noted that dichloromethane is responsible for many accidents. i regret that we have too little information on the accidents at work that have occurred. it should be noted that an impact study preceded the commission's work and that the text followed the results of this impact study. however, it would also be necessary to ensure that very precise information is given to individuals who are still tempted to use this product, although it is now the responsibility of the member states to establish clear rules and to ensure that a general ban on the placing on the market of a product dangerous to health is imposed.
madam president, on the energy issue, europe's credibility is at stake. thank you, mr barroso, for your very clear words this morning. this gazprom and naftogaz, this circus that we have seen for two, three, four or five days, it is incredible! and from here on out, we have to say, "gentlemen, that's enough!" this is a joint effort! thank you for the good coordination! can anyone here explain to me what these trips of the slovak and bulgarian prime ministers to moscow mean? it's enough to show gazprom that we're not united. give me an explanation of these two trips. secondly, i believe that the commission has a major role to play: we must draw up gas emergency plans. the first thing to do is to revise the gas safety directive, otherwise the european commission will not have enough political power to act. we need european coordination. secondly, we need an emergency plan for gas infrastructure in central and eastern europe, with the money that is available. thirdly, we must combine the european economic recovery with a major energy investment plan. first priority: the buildings in eastern europe. it is a scandal that so little of the structural funds is being invested in what is useful! instead of building stadiums for european championships, i would prefer to see investment in the citizens: buildings, heating networks, renewable energy. the last point: we are more dependent on nuclear energy than on gas. we import 99% of our nuclear fuel materials! stop linking nuclear power to independence! mrs. koch-mehrin, you are ridiculous when you mention that.
mr president, i would simply like to make a point because in an oral explanation of vote by one of my colleagues he said things and claimed that there were things in the resolution that were not there. there is no obligation for employers to make plans. we have removed all these obligations, all these demands from the report as it was adopted by the committee on women's rights. we have tabled a joint resolution and i hope that the honourable member is not opposed to the fact that emphasis is placed on the need to encourage social dialogue between the social partners in order to apply the principle of equality, or that member states are invited to encourage employers to provide employees and their representatives with regular information on the respect of the principle of equality. so everything he criticized is no longer in the resolution that was adopted and i wanted to make this point.
in writing. the committee on women's rights and gender equality is concerned about the application of the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. in the absence of the european commission's report, our committee conducted its own inquiry into national parliaments and equality bodies. notices were sent to 22 member states, definitions were incorrectly transposed in 15 member states. by 5 october 2008, nine member states had not communicated measures to transpose the directive. our own-initiative report is a wake-up call and a warning to the member states. unfortunately, some exaggerated claims and claims were voted on in committee. i therefore tabled an alternative resolution. we were able to agree on a joint resolution, which i voted for, pending the implementation report which will be received in the first half of 2009. it will provide a sound analysis to draw the necessary conclusions for compliance with the treaty and legislation on equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. it is a compendium of everything that lobbyists anywhere are putting to the commission or parliament. unless we set priorities, we will not be able to use funds in a meaningful way. and the priority is really clear. let's start with efficiency: buildings, cars, refrigerators and so on. there is nothing cheaper and nothing that creates more jobs. secondly, renewable energy. if we say 60 percent renewable energy in the total energy mix in 2050, that means we have at least 90 percent renewable energy in the electricity sector. we will have that 90% renewable energy in the electricity sector much sooner than 2050, because we have already adopted a directive that says: 35% by 2020. if i can get from 15 percent green electricity today to 35 percent by 2020, i'll be at 60 percent and beyond by 2030. thirdly, gas as a transition. how can that be? i'm investing billions in gas pipelines and then i want to reduce gas consumption in europe. that is what you say, mr piebalgs, in your document, and that is also what is latent in mrs laperrouze's report. so we have efficiency, renewables and gas, and then you invest 1.3 billion in ccs. where is there any room left to hold on to the atom anyway? mr commissioner, you cannot even add numbers properly! if i put efficiency and renewable energy in place and make a halfway decent gas policy, and if i have to, invest a little bit more in ccs, then i don't need nuclear energy, and i don't have to take that risk. look at the facts. i have to say that i am also very angry with the commission on the economic recovery plan. zero euro for energy efficiency! this is a waste of money. the european union is not a party to the treaty. commissioner, 300 municipalities from europe will be coming to brussels on 10 february, at your invitation. what do we tell them? that the barroso cabinet cut 500 million for urban partnerships between monday and wednesday last week. i think that's such a contrast and such a wrong thing! because i need the cities as partners for a new energy policy. zero euro for solar energy, zero euro for biomass, and zero euro for the energy sector. that means i'm making an economic recovery plan where i'm giving three and a half billion to the energy oligopolies and not a single euro to the partners i need to make the change to green energy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the záborská report, against which the greens have tabled an alternative debate. i believe that in europe, because of our shared values, we must ensure that women, especially those who become mothers, have the right to choose freely whether they want to stop working after giving birth or to stop partly in order to devote themselves to their child. i was very lucky that my mother did that, and i have to say, it's gotten me good. if she had had the misfortune to be divorced after more than twenty years of marriage, she would not have been well off, for she would have been especially in old age without social security. i have been fighting for 40 years now to ensure that women who freely choose to devote themselves to their families and children are not discriminated against, that they do not wrong themselves by making this choice. i cannot vote for an ideology which wants to entrust the children and the people from the cradle to the cradle to the state. i regret that the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality was rejected; the majority that has done this has not done a good service to women, to the family, or to society.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to renew the agreement concluded in december 1997 and already renewed for the first time in 2003, and which will enable the two parties to continue, improve and intensify their cooperation in scientific and technological fields of common interest. this cooperation will enable us to benefit from the scientific and technical progress made in our respective research programmes. in addition, there is a transfer of knowledge and know-how for the benefit of our businesses and our citizens. this cooperation is part of the european policy on research and technological development, which is a key element of european legislation, and will strengthen the scientific and technological bases of european industry and foster the development of its international competitiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adapt and strengthen the 2004 framework decision on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual violence. in relation to this framework decision, it appears that the thresholds for protection need to be raised, in particular in the light of technological developments (in particular the internet). sexual solicitation of children should be considered an offence. cooperation between member states should be strengthened in the exchange of information on criminal records relating to convictions for sexual abuse, in order to prevent persons convicted for such offences from working in jobs involving direct contact with children. similarly, the protection of victims must be improved.
in writing. i voted for the florenz report. this is an excellent piece of work, as this report sets out in great detail a wide range of actions that will need to be taken in areas as diverse as energy, biofuels, energy efficiency, mobility, tourism, agriculture and livestock, soil protection and water management, as well as waste and resource management, future-oriented issues, and education and training. the excellent work of the temporary committee on climate change, set up on 25 april 2007, is driven by a visionary spirit and its proposals against climate change deserve the support of all actors in political, economic and social life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive, which tackles a widespread scourge, illegal immigration, which often leads to exploitation. there are between 4.5 and 8 million undocumented workers in the eu in the construction, agriculture, hotel and other sectors. the fight against illegal immigration must be strengthened by providing for different types of sanctions at european level against employers of these illegal immigrants. the aim is to empower businesses and thus help to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we greens have tabled a resolution which has the support of the liberals and also of large sections of the socialists. i think mr reul wants a postponement because he is afraid that his position is in the minority. i think it's a little strange that we've been discussing this for so long, and now it's being postponed again. so we are against a postponement.
mr president, commissioner, i think this is a very important step forward in european research policy. this is a result of the evaluation report of the sixth framework programme, but it is also a reflection that was made during the preparation of the seventh framework programme. you have said, commissioner, that certain member states are now allowed to join. it is absurd to say that special permission from the european union is required for this, but it is progress. what concerns me is your observation that vat will be applied at its minimum rate and that the situation of an international status is not yet fully clarified, at least that is how i understand it. article 171 was invoked for the vote on the sesar joint undertaking. we voted twice on this draft because in the first version the international status had not been confirmed and therefore the joint venture could not be set up. another joint venture, galileo, was never formed. my questions are as follows: what will be the share of community funding? will there be funding for those who join together to prevent waste of resources for research infrastructures and to encourage them? will it finally be possible to draw on the cohesion funds for research, in order to combine excellence and cohesion?
member of the commission. − madam president, i want to thank the european parliament for its quick handling of this proposal, in the light of the request by the european council of last december in the context of the european economic recovery plan to settle the issue of reduced vat rates in certain sectors by march 2009. i am pleased that the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) has adopted a draft resolution approving the commission’s initiative, and i hope that the plenary will take the same supportive line. i would like to thank the econ committee and the rapporteur, ms van den burg, for their support. indeed, the quick adoption of this proposal is necessary in order to give certainty about the application of reduced rates to certain locally supplied, labour-intensive services that would otherwise have to disappear at the end of 2010. moreover, it is important to ensure equal possibilities for all member states in sectors such as housing and restaurants, because in these sectors member states are currently not on an equal footing. the current economic and financial crisis adds to the urgency of adopting and implementing this proposal. it is not the moment to destroy jobs, which would be the case if the reduced rates currently applied in 18 member states for labour-intensive services were not made definitive. moreover, it is important to make these reduced rates rapidly available to all member states. by incentivising consumer spending in areas such as the housing sector, reduced rates can have positive effects on employment, in particular amongst the category of low-skilled workers, who are precisely those who risk being laid off first in the current crisis. in this context, i have already recommended to the council to modify the proposed date of entry into force of the directive, in order to allow its application as quickly as possible after a positive decision is taken by the council. in the council, the czech presidency is currently concentrating all its efforts on achieving a compromise concentrating on a limited number of sectors – labour-intensive, locally supplied services – to which reduced rates should be made available, as required by the european council. however, i have some comments on the amendments that have been tabled to this specific and limited proposal. on amendment 3: on the exclusion of alcoholic beverages from the restaurant services, the commission respected the coherence of community policies, in particular the need for coherence between vat and excise duties, but also considering the global health policy of the eu. contrary to some concerns, differentiating between food and non-alcoholic beverages, on the one hand, and alcoholic beverages, on the other hand, does not create a serious administrative burden for businesses. indeed, currently, seven out of the 11 member states applying reduced rates to restaurant services exclude alcoholic beverages without any difficulty. on amendment 2: as for the proposed extension of the scope of reduced vat rates to machinery used by farmers, i consider this to be unnecessary. this is because the vat charged on equipment serving as input for the agricultural sector is not a cost to farmers because they have the right to deduct this vat, like any other taxable person. on amendments 1 and 4: concerning the amendments related to the addition of children’s clothes and footwear, i would like to remind you that the proposal under consideration is a restricted one dealing principally with locally supplied, labour-intensive services. therefore, further extensions of the scope of the proposal should not be considered in this context. furthermore, bearing in mind the attitude and concrete positions of some member states, this extension would surely jeopardise the unanimous support, which we very much need, in the council. on amendment 5: the amendment relating to the addition of monuments and gravestones is not necessary, as a reduced rate for these supplies is already allowed by the current provisions when provided by funeral undertakings. moreover, renovation, repair, maintenance of cultural heritage and historical monuments is also covered by the current commission proposal which is under consideration. on amendment 7: i can assure you that the commission is very keen to specifically address the question of the use of reduced rates in order to promote energy efficiency. this will be done in the framework of the ‘green tax package’ currently under preparation and will be coming to the council and parliament in april. in conclusion, i want to declare that the proposal would support housing, support the smes and save jobs, which is fully in line with the european economic recovery plan. it is not an obligation but an option: member states can decide whether or not to apply it, so it even extends their tax sovereignty.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, today's debate - and previous speakers have confirmed this - is taking place in very special circumstances, since we are not dealing with a report for the plenary, as is customary. let me be clear: it was a heterogeneous majority that voted against the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. if my group voted against this report, while we strongly support the principle of extending the application of reduced vat rates even beyond what the european commission proposes, it is because all our amendments were rejected by the socialists and liberals. we had made a great effort to compromise. we have accepted all the proposals of the socialist rapporteur. she did not think it worth the effort, so only one of our proposals was accepted. it is therefore not surprising, madam rapporteur, that the vote has produced an unfortunate and at the same time unavoidable result. i would also like to advise you in a friendly manner to change your attitude in the future, because, as the romans said, errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum. but let's get back to the immediate business. for the plenary, my group decided to re-introduce amendments, also from colleagues in the committee responsible for opinion. these are important amendments, and it has been made very clear, madam rapporteur, that no one can prevent a member from proposing amendments to a text, to a resolution. the main amendment concerns the application of reduced rates to alcoholic beverages in restaurants. it is not, mr olle schmidt, to encourage alcoholism. this is ridiculous. if the commission's proposal were accepted, the restaurants would be obliged to apply two different vat rates. it's complicated, it's unwarranted. long live the bureaucracy! and you can trust me, if you do not vote for this amendment no 3, i will inform the whole of the food industry in europe - and it is very much aware - of your position, which has prevented a reduced vat rate from being applied to all its services. i have proposed that all food and beverages be taxed at the same reduced rate, if it is applied. this seems to me to be pure common sense and i think we could all support this proposal. why complicate things? why detect public health issues where they don't belong? madam president, my group supports the extension of the reduced vat rates and we urge our governments to finally move forward on this issue. our fellow citizens were already expecting a lot from this with the economic crisis and the daily bad news that accompanied it. this measure to support consumption is becoming even more necessary. madam president, if europe is also synonymous with flexibility, that would certainly be a positive sign.
madam president, the only battles we're sure to lose are the ones we don't fight. by reintroducing our amendments in favour of a fairer application of reduced vat rates, especially for children's clothing in the new member states, for example, and thus putting them on an equal footing with the old ones, we wanted to send a strong signal to the commission and the council. we've succeeded on all but one of them. our amendment to save the restaurant industry the bureaucratic burden of having to apply different vat rates to a single invoice was narrowly rejected. our group wants to leave the member states who opt for a reduced rate the choice of applying a single reduced rate for catering, which is not possible with the text of the commission's proposal, because that text requires the application of different rates depending on whether the service provided by the local restaurant includes a glass of beer or wine. who can understand? i admit that some of my colleagues did not quite understand the scope of our amendment, but the strong signal sent by parliament in this area remains. the game was worth it. madam president, i am pleased that my group and i have persevered in fighting the evil mania of the left's confiscatory taxation. we must fight this "addiction".
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, firstly my thanks to mr krahmer, who has been a very constructive and well-organised rapporteur for this directive. what are we doing here? we are promoting best available technologies in europe for the sake of health, for the sake of the environment, but also for the sake of the competitiveness of european industry. we should be aware that, in much of industrial production in europe, labour costs are smaller today than the material costs and the costs for electricity, water, resources. we will therefore gain enormously from this directive, which takes us away from looking only at end-of-pipe technologies to push through the best available documents and best technology already used by an industry. that is exactly where we have to go. this also strengthens our suppliers of green technology in europe. there is a huge world market for green processing, and we should put europe on the map. as greens, we are happy with this european safety net, which will reduce dumping possibilities for certain governments, and we have improved monitoring and access of documents for citizens. it was a very good process but, unfortunately, i do not understand mr vernola. you have negotiated all these compromises with us in a good way. life is about trust – as is politics – so i do not understand why, at the very end, you who have such a good knowledge of this dossier are now giving in to politicians like mrs jackson and other politicians who do not care for health or for competitiveness. i think this is a shame. it is a shame that the biggest political group in this house is no longer a reliable negotiating partner. we cannot negotiate for weeks and then have the compromises undermined at the very last moment. this is not a serious way of doing politics on such an important file.
in writing. - i have agreed to this report because consumers need and want more environmentally friendly and safer vehicles. as far as the safety of cars is concerned, i particularly welcome the mandatory esp (electronic stability system) for cars from the 2011 model year. as far as tyres are concerned, i think it is worthwhile to reduce co2 emissions by improving tyres with less rolling resistance and introducing electronic pressure monitoring systems. the reduction of co2 emissions must not, however, be at the expense of safety, i.e. the wet grip of the tyres. i am also pleased that existing stocks do not have to be withdrawn from the market after 12 months as originally planned, but only 30 months after the introduction of new standards. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. we also allow our suppliers, who have been badly affected by the economic crisis, sufficient transitional time to cope with the high demands placed on them.
in writing. the commission's communication on the small business act is of particular importance in the current context. it sets out the basic principles which should guide policy-making and implementation, both at eu and national level, in order to create a level playing field for all smes operating in europe. on a more operational level, it also contains a package of more than 50 separate measures, including four legislative proposals that translate these principles into action. support for smes, especially in these times of severe economic crisis, must be a top priority. investment by smes is one of the keys to the long-awaited recovery. since most actions fall within the competence of the member states, ways should be found of involving the member states and the community institutions to ensure that smes derive added value from the measures which concern them. some of the amendments tabled by my group aim to make the 'think small first' principle a mandatory part of any future legislation. i also support the idea of a separate budget line for smes... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, the committee on industry has looked at two aspects of this directive, the first being oil. europe is the major world economy that is most dependent on the transport of goods related to oil. make no mistake: even if the price of oil is falling now, it is because the world economy is slowing down. but when it does, we will be faced with the same problems of oil shortages. and the biggest achilles' heel of the european economy in the future is our dependence on oil for commodities. the second aspect concerns technology and exports. if europe sets up a proper eurovignette system, it will also promote the development of european economic players. the united states, china, india, indonesia are economies that will have the same problem as us; it is therefore a plea for the establishment of an ambitious policy, both in terms of internalising external costs to anticipate the necessary change on oil and to favour the european industry in all the technological equipment that revolves around the euro.
mr president, in these times of crisis we need a strong impulse at european level. the nation states alone will not be able to give a strong and coordinated enough response. we therefore urgently need a boost from europe. but what do we see today? a tired commission, like its president, lacking in vision and political courage. a 5 billion stimulus plan which is not a stimulus plan because 50% of the projects on the list will not see any investment in 2009 or 2010 because the authorizations for carbon sequestration will not exist, for example! yes, mr daul is right. this is a time when we must show solidarity and innovation. but if the commission agrees with margaret merkel - i want my money back - and makes a list which gives more money to the strong economies than to our colleagues in the eastern countries who need solidarity at the moment, we will not be able to make any progress. so we have to innovate on two things. firstly, we must not squander these 5 billion in state aid, but concentrate it on the european investment bank. the bank is currently undergoing a capital increase of eur 76 billion. it's negotiating with the european central bank to do better on liquidity. so let's put the majority of the $5 billion in a guarantee fund to leverage 20, 25, 30 billion in public and private investment. secondly, we must open up this stimulus package to ecotechnologies, renewable energy and investment in buildings in europe's cities. right now, obama is spending ten times more venture capital on ecotechnology than europe. so we're losing the battle over the next big thing in economics.
in writing. in exceptional circumstances, exceptional means. the economic situation has deteriorated to such an extent that it warrants concerted action by the states to try to revive economic activity. however, several observations are necessary. the exceptional situation we are in does not call into question the basic rules of economics. today's borrowings will be tomorrow's debts, which governments will be obliged to repay in the future. deficits may be necessary, but they will be expensive. you have to be aware of that. the tax increases that will be necessary in the near future to restore public finances are already being mentioned. secondly, all the expenditure on stimulus is far from worth it. capital expenditure on modernisation of the production system or research is of a very different weight from operating expenditure. it will therefore be necessary for states to equip themselves with the appropriate tools to make the most appropriate choices. finally, since words have meaning, let us make it clear that the recovery plan is not a european plan per se, but at most a coordination of the national measures taken by the various member states. do we need to go any further? the question is worth asking, but the establishment of a common recovery plan for the european union would require fundamental revisions of european policies and means.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the visit to prague by the president of belarus, mr lukashenko. is the coming of this president in line with the values we stand for? can the european union compromise with a president who concentrates all powers, without limitation of duration or term of office? what image will the european union give by accepting to welcome to its podium a president who has liquidated several political opponents and who restricts the rights of its citizens? what image will our union give to the obama administration, even as an american citizen is languishing in a prison in this country and is about to die there if nothing is done quickly? i don't think this invitation should have been made.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs. these reports are a springboard for new policies. i only regret that none of the reports mentions cultural policy. perhaps cultural policy is cohesion policy by definition. it is culture that gives cohesion to a region and it could have been used as a reference, because transregional cultural policies have not yet been put in place. we still have a lot of problems in financing transcultural projects because there is no transcultural society, there is no social security that could give artists the necessary mobility to act beyond the borders of their region. i would like to make a heartfelt appeal to all those who are concerned with implementing this policy not to lose sight of this important aspect of any european policy.
in writing. i voted for the becsey report because an excessive increase in excise duties on manufactured tobacco, as proposed by the commission, especially in these times of severe crisis, would be bad for employment in this sector in europe. experience has shown that high price policy is not an effective means of combating smoking. that is why i am also pleased that the alignment of the minimum tax rate on rolling tobacco with that on cigarettes has been avoided. the buffer function of rolling tobacco is essential to prevent the resurgence of smuggling on european territory. in germany, a study showed that in some länder more than one out of every two cigarettes is smuggled. to prevent this from becoming more widespread, fine-cut tobacco must be used as a substitute for cigarettes. i regret that some very sensible amendments were rejected with such haste. i hope that our message will still reach the council of ministers, which must act unanimously.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the foreseeable future, mankind will not be able to do without cars and trucks. these means of transport must become less polluting, less energy-consuming. but the best possible and desirable organization of public transport can never replace the flexibility of individual means of transport. the european automotive industry is the world's technological leader in the sector. this cutting-edge industry must be safeguarded. it is strategic for the whole of the european industrial fabric. millions of jobs depend on it directly and indirectly. the socialists want to defend jobs. they ask that any restructuring involves a prior discussion with the workers and their unions. in the wake of what was done for the banks, china has funded the modernization and technological adaptation of the sector. and in this respect i agree entirely with what commissioner verheugen said. europe must take its responsibilities. the european investment bank must be recapitalised if necessary to support the restructuring of the sector and its thousands of subcontractors, mainly smes. we expect the commission to continue to organise a constructive dialogue between all european countries hosting sites owned by american manufacturers and the latter, and we commend commissioner verheugen for the initiative he has taken in this regard. but there is still a need to organise the defence of european intellectual property and to bring back to europe patents for inventions made in europe and currently pending in the united states. this amounts to theft or at least expropriation without compensation. it is unthinkable that european sites will have to pay royalties in the future for the know-how developed by engineers and workers in europe. as regards the situation at general motors, mr president, my group agrees with what commissioner verheugen has said here.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think that only history will judge whether the summit last week was a great summit. this morning i would like a wake-up call. we are in a system crisis, and this system crisis can quickly develop into a societal crisis. roosevelt in the 1930s won the political battle against the fascists; europe lost it. so, why did roosevelt win? he won because he had the trust even of those us citizens who lost a lot of economic income in the economic crisis of the 1930s. what are the four elements of trust which roosevelt won? the first was reregulation. roosevelt heavily attacked the oligopolies, the big companies in the us, and reregulated the economy. this is exactly what we have to do at the g20 in london. even if gordon brown were the champion of deregulation, maybe this shows that change can happen. secondly, strengthen the social fabric. roosevelt’s programme was: firstly, redistribution of wealth as well as taxing the rich and giving money to the poor; and, secondly, a huge programme for young people in the us. what are we offering young people at european level, so that they do not give their votes to the fascists in the european elections? thirdly – and martin has raised this – the biggest error of your summit was the downgrading of the social summit in may. the only way society stays together is if the multipliers in society function, so we need an upgrading of the may meeting and we need a broadening. you also have to call to the table all the environmental ngos, the development ngos and the social ngos which are preparing, with society and with citizens, the changes we need in society. roosevelt’s fourth issue was his economic investment. that was the one he essentially lost, because it was only during the second world war that the economic motor ran again in the us. we do not want to go to war. the war we have to win today is the war against the planet. our war is green investment – that is where we have to win the war. therefore, there are two issues. one is that we need green eurobonds. out of the eur 5 billion we need to park a maximum of money with the european investment bank, so as to have leverage for renewables and efficiency. second, we have to bring the cities of europe into the game. european citizens do not live in the north sea, in the dumping areas of co2, you cannot win votes there. we have to win in european cities – and the citizens in these cities – through a smart city programme. that is winning the economy and it is winning the hearts of citizens for europe.
mr president, all the measures listed by the council and the commissioner are approved because they improve the situation of the population. but do you have to let a dictator through the front door? is this not an insult to those who have been imprisoned recently and who are still in prison? madam commissioner, mr minister, i would like to ask you quite frankly: did you put any pressure on the european authorities to get this invitation to the prague summit, which i consider excessive and inappropriate?
mr president, that statement is still astonishing. i simply wanted to tell my colleagues that i am one of the authors of the alternative resolution. this is the european union, not the soviet union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i have the impression that you voted on the caspary report and that the amendment proposed by my group was rejected. i myself voted against because i was on the voting list for the previous report. i think we should vote again on the caspary report where there was only one amendment, and then not vote on the final one.
in writing. the objectives of this report on the gap between producer and consumer prices are not contested by anyone. increased market transparency is necessary to ensure adequate remuneration of producers and justified prices to the final consumer. unfortunately, the text adopted in committee contains proposals which are incompatible with the social market economy. these hyper-managerial proposals, with price, margin and market controls, are just too much like the failed recipes that were thought to be a thing of the past. i regret that the report focuses only on distributors instead of taking the whole production chain into account. the large processors are often the ones who buy from farmers and who abuse their dominant position on the market to sell at exorbitant prices to distributors. the creation of european databases on all kinds of costs and margins, as proposed in the report, would also lead to a considerable administrative burden for businesses, which would have an impact on retail prices. to avoid these errors, i have proposed an alternative resolution with the support of 40 signatures.
mr president, i am one of the epp members who voted for the report. i did so because i think that parliament must send a strong signal with this vote for non-discrimination and there are certainly other elements that are much more important than those just listed. there are still situations in the member states where children are denied access to schooling in their mother tongue and are forbidden to speak that language. we are a thousand miles from the real situation. it is therefore necessary to send a signal, which parliament has done and i have supported. there is certainly much to be done in this effort to get to know each other better, and we are far from the dialogue of cultures, which we vowed to advance in 2008, and i regret all the controversy that has been made around this report.
in writing. it is with great regret that i have decided to abstain on mrs buitenweg's report on equal treatment. this principle of equal treatment of persons, regardless of political or religious convictions, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability, is one of the founding principles of the european union. the daily reality is that much progress still needs to be made in the member states. the disparaging comments that continue to abound about the elderly are a telling illustration of this. however, i cannot subscribe to the ways and options described in this report. i am very much afraid that good intentions will lead to unresolvable disputes and bureaucratic excesses which are contrary to the objective pursued.
in writing. i voted against the own-initiative report by mrs ries. this is the kind of completely useless report that some members of parliament like to see, who like to apply the 'precautionary principle' in a wrong way and who take the slightest 'concern' of the citizens very seriously. as the life expectancy of europeans increases year by year, any new study of the possible effects of electromagnetic fields raises questions that remain unanswered. however, the dozens of studies by scientific academies and other really competent bodies that have concluded that there is no real risk are systematically ignored. anything that's exaggerated is insignificant.
mr president, i noted with sadness and bitterness that the oral question with debate on rosé wines and authorized oenological practices, which we introduced in due course with my colleagues from a large number of political groups, was not on this week's agenda. on behalf of all the signatories, i ask that this situation be remedied. i have spoken to my colleagues, the chairmen of the political groups, and it seems to me that they have either been misinformed about this request or that it has been ignored. i therefore ask you to put the oral question, which was tabled in due time, on this week's agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to ask the house if this should be on the agenda. you can't decide that on your own. ask the colleagues if they agree. i am sure you will find a few minutes so that we can deal with this important subject which affects many regions of our union very much, and deal with it on time, because in may it will be too late.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first, on the ţicău report, the greens will vote for it: it has a green mark, and i thank all the team who negotiated. i want to spend the few seconds i have here on internal markets. it is already clear this evening that we need a fourth package on liberalisation, with five items: firstly, ownership unbundling for pipelines and grids; secondly, access to storage of electricity and of gas; thirdly, more power for the eu agency for the cooperation of energy regulators; fourthly, public ownership of the power exchanges, because otherwise it will never function; and fifthly, we need a specific cartel law for infrastructure-based economies. although eluned morgan has fought hard for the consumers, consumers can only gain when the wholesale market is functioning. enel is taking over endesa, rwe is taking over nuon and vattenfall is taking over essent. we will end up with 10 mega-players who do not have any interest in either an environmental agenda or a consumer agenda. this will be a cartel, and to face this cartel we need stricter laws. in this sense we have a defeat this evening, orchestrated by mr reul, ms niebler and others of their like. it is a big victory for the energy oligopolies and it is a defeat for consumers in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is about to adopt rules governing international finance. it will be insufficient because there is clearly no political will in europe or the united states to eliminate the perversions of pure speculation, such as naked short selling, the sale of products that one does not even own. the international financial crisis did not originate in the islands. it was born in the united states, and it spread through the city to the other major financial centers. all these centers were supposed to be well regulated. the g20 nevertheless found the guilty ideals: tax havens, real and fake. in my report to parliament on the reform of the international architecture, i already advocated in 2000 the elimination of all black holes in international finance, starting with hedge funds and other purely speculative funds. the g20 only intends to regulate hedge funds that present a systemic risk. the systemic risk is only seen afterwards, when the crisis has unfolded. in fact, the big g20 countries have spared their own offshore centres, the channel islands, the virgin islands, hong kong or macau, not to mention onshore centres like delaware. as jacques attali has said, in the future the monopoly of speculation will be reserved for london and new york. the message is clear. international finance will be regulated for the benefit of the big countries. all pigs are equal, but some pigs are more equal.
in writing. this report is a reasonable compromise which should allow end-users to buy their tyres with full knowledge of the facts, in particular regarding fuel efficiency, wet grip and external rolling noise. i welcome the increased flexibility of the date of entry into force of this regulation, which should give more room for manoeuvre to producers, in order to avoid the destruction of tyre stocks. such destruction would have been contrary to the environmental objectives set. the most sensitive points were certainly the mandatory moulding, in relief or hollow, the energy performance, the wet grip index and the noise emissions of the tyres. this would have forced our tyre manufacturers to renew all their tyre ranges at exorbitant prices. i believe that such a demand would put our tyre industry, which is already suffering badly from the consequences of the economic crisis, in even greater danger.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission fully supports parliament’s compromise text which is tabled to be voted at this part-session. this very balanced compromise text will hopefully facilitate the adoption of the proposal at a single reading. such an outcome will be a very welcome development for eu performers. it will show our appreciation for the creative contribution musicians make to our lives and to our culture. parliament’s compromise text has four main planks, all of which we wholeheartedly support: firstly, an extension of the term of copyright protection for performers and record producers from 50 to 70 years; secondly, a new claim for session players amounting to 20% of record labels’ off-line and online sales revenue; thirdly a ‘use it or lose it’ provision that allows performers to recover the rights after 50 years, should the producer fail to market the sound recording; and, fourthly, a so-called ‘clean slate’, which prevents record producers from making deductions from the royalties they pay to feature performers. i am especially pleased to note that the session players’ fund, which operates on the basis of 20% of gross sales revenue, has to date come through the legislative process intact. essentially this fund is tested on the fact that, contrary to all the criticism we have heard in the past year, the term extension will, on the one hand, provide income to performers in their twilight years and, on the other hand, promote the emergence of new arts. let me stress that this proposal is far from a simple term extension. for the first time ever in european copyright laws there will be a scheme whereby artists participate in the labels’ sales revenue: 20% of gross turnover is set aside for session artists. this is truly innovative. mostly importantly, the 20% set aside is not revenue that accrues to a few superstars. this 20% is exclusively for distribution to the session players. contrary to a widely-held belief, the likes of sir cliff richard will not get a single penny out of the session players’ fund, and record labels such as emi or universal, which contribute to the session players’ fund, will have to make a profit on only 80% of gross turnover. then there is the clean slate, a provision that ends the unfortunate practice of deducting advances from featured artists’ royalties. again, this provision is there for the lesser-known performers because it is their records which often do not recoup the advances. there is also a clause allowing performers to undo buy-out contracts once their producers cease to sell their recorded performances. all of this is highly innovative and no eu proposal has ever pushed the boat out so far in favour of performers. this is not a proposal for the benefit of record labels. this is a carefully balanced approach aimed at rewarding europe’s creators. some might argue that european creators are over-protected. those who rely on copyright for their income would beg to differ. if artists stayed in the music recording business because it pays to do so, consumers would enjoy more variety as a consequence. we also welcome the invitation for the commission to conduct a separate impact assessment on audiovisual performers and to come forward with appropriate proposals during the course of 2010. we are confident that we can deliver the impact assessment within the time foreseen by parliament. the commission agrees that the issue of managing online rights for the redistribution of tv and radio programmes merits close attention. as a corollary to the term proposal we have addressed the broadcaster’s legitimate concerns on online rights. the commission therefore proposes to make the following declaration once the proposal is adopted in council. the declaration would read: ‘the commission recognises the pressing need for the collective management of the rights of phonogram performers and phonogram producers when radio or television productions incorporating broadcasts from commercial phonograms as an integral part thereof are made available to the public in such a way that members of the public may access the radio or television productions from a place and at a time individually chosen by them. the commission will take appropriate measures to facilitate the implementation of such collective management and, as a first step, the commission will institute a structured dialogue between stakeholders with the aim of establishing a functioning licensing regime. this declaration is limited to the on-demand making available of radio or television productions and does not cover the making available of the phonogram itself.’ end of the intended declaration. the commission put forward this proposal in july 2008. we are now in the midst of the worst economic crisis the world has seen in my lifetime. for many eu citizens this crisis affects their daily lives. europe’s performers often live a very precarious existence at the best of times. this proposal ensures that performers can in their later life recoup a share in the income they generate. parliament is being sensitive to this, and the process has shown that the impetus to act for our creators is still alive. i believe that all the fears expressed by those who are against term extension will prove unfounded. in conclusion i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, brian crowley, and express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of this file by the european parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked on this dossier. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the report he has put before us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the development of the audiovisual sector. this amendment has therefore extended this principle to performers, which is already a considerable advance. however, much remains to be done, as this compromise is only a first step. the situation of copyright distribution companies in the various countries is still very different, with very different statutes, and in this respect harmonization is not yet ready to be achieved in practice. the parliament's report calls on the commission to carry out impact studies and to monitor this measure. the next commission will therefore be called upon to continue this work. as regards licensing, i would point out that the artists' circle is the most uncertain about such approaches, fearing that the big producers will have the upper hand over the creation of small producers. it is therefore a question of finding a balance in this respect.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the directive under discussion today must above all be seen as a complement to the cooperation which has existed for three decades between the member states and their social security systems. in my own member state, luxembourg, already today more than 30% of health care is provided across borders, and the case of john bowis, for whom i wish a good recovery, is a perfect example of how the existing regulation works because john was hospitalised in an emergency in brussels. he was treated well and, for a british citizen, there is no problem with refunds. so what does this directive have to improve? first of all, it must improve information for the public: information on the services available, information on the centres of excellence, as mrs roth-behrendt has explained, but above all information on the quality of care. i believe that many member states, including my own, have progress to make in terms of quality criteria and information on the quality of care. and of course, if i'm abroad and things go wrong, i need to have somewhere to turn. all this is well regulated in the current text, but there are three things we need to improve. firstly, we believe that a system of prior authorization for hospital care has a double advantage: firstly, it is a great advantage for the european citizen because he will know exactly when he will be reimbursed and he will also be prefinanced, and secondly, it allows for the planning of large hospital infrastructures, because a good health system is not the invisible hand of the market that will do it. it has to be planned. the second green demand concerns a dual legal basis, because we do not want health care to be seen as a market. it must be very clear that the system is organized, above all, by the member states. thirdly, we want specific legislation on rare diseases because it is too important and it is to fool european citizens into saying 'go somewhere in europe and we will take care of it'. we want specific legislation. so we do not want a bolkenstein ii, what we want is a legal security text that serves the majority of european citizens.
mr president, i abstained on the 2007 discharge for the european parliament's budget because of certain paragraphs in this report which are based on misinformation and falsehoods in the media, particularly here, concerning the members' voluntary pension fund. mr cohn-bendit can sleep on his hands and knees because, as a taxpayer, he will not be asked to guarantee the rights of the fund's members who have already retired, their widows and orphans, or those who will cease to operate by 14 july. if he thinks that the members of the voluntary pension fund should not be involved in the vote on discharge, he had better sweep his own door. moreover, he is happy to vote on the appropriations in our budget to finance his allowances, when we have just learned, for the sake of transparency, that, for example, he has only been to a meeting of a committee of which he is a member once in five years. his legendary diligence in the legislative work of this house - not just howling and press conferences - should encourage him to be more discreet, but as a 68-year-old crook, you certainly can't expect better from him. moreover, mr president, it is not the statements here, even if they come from group chairmen, that will change anything about the legal responsibilities of this parliament, which are written in marble.
in writing. i unhesitatingly support the report by jean-paul gauzès, who has once again demonstrated his qualities as a negotiator. it is a good thing that a compromise was quickly reached on this text. by establishing a regulatory framework for credit rating agencies, europe is leading the way, while the us has yet to take any concrete action in this area. part of the credibility and confidence in capital markets depends on the ratings developed and disseminated by these agencies. the regulatory framework we are establishing today should be able to improve the conditions for the preparation of these ratings, since they are used in a prudential framework for regulated activities. but it was important that the compromise should not be translated into solutions which simply prohibit all reference to ratings in any context, since they were not established in the framework of this regulation. apart from the fact that this approach would have been partly detrimental to important freedoms such as freedom of expression and freedom of trade, it would have likely favoured non-european markets to the detriment of those domiciled in europe, and private and confidential financial transactions to the detriment of those which are public and subject to transparency rules. i therefore fully support the solution adopted.
in writing. i welcome the objectives of this report, which are to facilitate patient healthcare in a member state other than their own and to clarify post-treatment reimbursement procedures which are currently lacking in european legislation. safe, effective and quality care should therefore become accessible to all european citizens through cooperation mechanisms between member states. however, i would stress that it is the member states which have exclusive competence for the organisation and financing of health systems. prior authorisation for hospital treatment is the essential instrument for the exercise of this piloting capacity. it is clear that the exercise of this right must respect the principles of proportionality, necessity and non-discrimination. as regards the legal basis, i would like to see a dual legal basis to ensure that national competences are respected. the commission proposal included many attempts to penetrate this area through the back door. the final text should strike a fair balance between the rights of patients and the national competences of the member states in the health sector.
member of the commission. − madam president, in a globalised world, where tax evaders and fraudsters take advantage of the limited scope of authority of national tax administrations, efficient cooperation and mutual assistance between tax administrations is essential to better combat tax fraud and evasion. improved rules and greater transparency are crucial. this has recently been underlined by the g20 summit in london, and it is even more relevant in the internal market in the midst of the financial crisis and the need to tighten fiscal policies in the european union. against this background i am glad to discuss with you tonight two proposals that both contribute to the objective of fighting tax fraud and tax evasion in two different tax areas. the proposed revision of the savings tax directive seeks to close loopholes and better prevent tax evasion. i very much welcome the constructive and supporting attitude to this proposal shown in the report by mr hamon and the opinion by mrs siitonen. i am aware that the most controversial point of the discussions in the committees has been amendment 20, fixing an end to the transitional period during which three member states are allowed to levy a withholding tax in place of automatically exchanging information. i also notice the opposed initiative from mrs lulling and mr karas supporting, through amendment 28, the option for these three member states to pursue the levying of the withholding tax and to abstain from automatic information exchange on a permanent basis. let me recall that the ultimate objective of the savings tax directive is automatic exchange of information on as wide a basis as possible, as this is the only reasonable tool to enable the country of residence of the taxpayer to apply its own tax rules to cross-border income from savings. this is perfectly in line with recent developments at international level – such as the g20 conclusions – favouring transparency and the strengthening of the cooperation between tax administrations on the basis of exchange of information. therefore i can assure you that the commission, while rejecting amendment 28 because it contradicts the aim of the directive, has no negative view on amendment 20. however, we consider that fixing a date for the end of the transitional period is premature at this stage and could create an obstacle to the necessary quick adoption of the amending proposal by the council. there is actually a need to evaluate when and how the political commitments for enhanced cooperation, which have been taken by a number of jurisdictions, can actually be implemented. nevertheless, the commission will not be opposed to any reinforcement of the corresponding provisions of the directive which could be unanimously agreed by the council. in amendment 22 the commission is asked to produce by the end of 2010 a comparative study analysing advantages and weaknesses of both the systems of exchange of information and of the withholding tax. however, the target date for the production of this study does not seem realistic: all member states would also have to make available to the commission, from this year onwards, the elements of statistics the transmission of which is set to be optional for them under the council conclusions of may 2008 and annex v of the amending proposal. concerning the other amendments of a more technical nature which aim either at extending the scope of a particular provision – like amendment 17 on insurance – or at limiting the administrative burden on the economic operators, the commission considers that its proposal is already the result of a delicate balance between improving the effectiveness of the directive and limiting an additional administrative burden. the proposed amendments, however, could negatively affect this delicate balance. they could either increase the administrative burden in a disproportionate manner – this is notably the case for the amendments aimed at extending the scope – or have an unfavourable impact on the effectiveness of the provisions. while appreciating the constructive approach of parliament, the commission cannot therefore accept some of the amendments in their present form. however, the commission will defend the spirit of a number of these amendments in the council deliberations without formally amending its proposal. turning now to the sensitive subject of vat fraud, i would like to recall that at the ecofin meeting of 4 december 2007 the council invited the commission to accelerate its work on the conventional measures to combat vat fraud. the ecofin also invited the commission to present legislative proposals to rectify the shortcomings encountered in the current legislation. hereupon the commission presented a communication on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against vat fraud in the european union in december 2008. the communication sets out a series of measures for which the commission intends to present legislative proposals in the short term. the present proposal is part of the first set of proposals announced in this communication. the proposal will allow the member states to better fight vat fraud in two ways. firstly, by providing further clarification on the conditions for exempting certain imports of goods, and, secondly, by creating the legal basis for allowing cross-border joint and several liability for traders failing to fulfil their reporting obligations. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr visser, for dealing with this proposal in such a short time and for the constructive report. allow me, however, some comments. amendments 2 and 4 of the report would require the commission to carry out an evaluation on the functioning of the new cross-border joint and several liability provision. unfortunately, the commission does not possess this information, as the assessing of taxes, as well as their recovery, are purely national competences. furthermore, if the commission receives complaints from the economic operators that the provision is being misused by national tax administrations or leads to unwarranted results, it will assume its responsibility as guardian of community legislation and take appropriate measures. this includes in particular presenting a proposal to amend this provision when necessary. amendments 3 and 5 go against the division of competences between member states in the overall functioning of the community vat system. this system is based on a taxable event taking place in a specific member state, leading to a vat debt and vat liability in that member state. it is the member state where that vat is due that will determine the procedure to be followed in order to collect this vat, including from non-established traders. therefore, a trader who has not fulfilled his reporting obligations in the member state of departure will have to justify his shortcomings to the tax administration of the member state where the vat is due and not to the tax administration of his own member state. the latter will only intervene upon request of the first member state in order to obtain additional information or in the tax recovery process.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, the debate and discussion on the taxation of savings has become so passionate that it is disturbing. i do not feel like defending a position which seems to be in the minority here, but we shall see tomorrow, even if our rapporteur and the commissioner are still mixing up the towels and the towels. let's get to the bottom of this. the purpose of the savings tax directive, which has been in force since 2005, is to tax the capital gains of non-residents. two systems are in operation: the exchange of information between tax authorities and withholding tax. what is the result of a few years of implementation? official and unofficial studies all show that information exchange fails seriously, because it is complicated, cumbersome and expensive. on the other hand, there are many virtues to be found in abstaining from alcohol. what do you think is the conclusion to be drawn from this, and especially from our rapporteur and the commissioner? well, that the system which does not work and which does not guarantee that the tax due will actually be paid should be made compulsory. who can understand? the case is not without its piquancy when one observes, moreover, that the system of withholding tax is steadily gaining ground in the various member states - nineteen out of twenty-seven apply it to general satisfaction. but what is good at home becomes unacceptable once you cross the border. this logic simply leads to the undoing of what we have been building here for decades, namely the single market for financial services. the community's acquis on the free movement of capital is also called into question when the so-called big banks push for the repatriation of the capital of their residents. but all the blows are now allowed to fight the new hydra that banking secrecy has become. i say to my colleagues who are fighting against this so-called monster responsible for all evils: you are mistaken in your aim by mixing up the issues in the framework of this directive, and above all you are deluding yourselves. finally, madam president, i hope that many of my colleagues will be sensitive to the voice of reason and will vote for amendment no 28 by my group, which is aimed at nothing more than leaving the member states free to choose between withholding tax and the exchange of information.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for your comments and the views you expressed during the debate. i am glad to see that the european parliament and the commission share views on actions to be undertaken to better fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union and i am pleased with the general support for the two proposals. i would like to thank you again for the priority given to the savings taxation file and for your support for the commission efforts to promote good governance in the tax area. achieving rapid progress in the discussions on the amending proposal is also one of the priorities of the czech presidency. due to the international climate – the financial and economic crisis – it is also a priority for most member states. i am convinced that, once member states agree on ways of closing existing loopholes in the savings taxation directive, it is likely that the council will ask the commission to update in a similar way the agreements with the five non-eu countries and the 10 other jurisdictions participating in the savings taxation mechanism. it is premature to speculate today on how they will react to our approach. the eu first needs to reach a unanimous agreement internally. however, bearing in mind progress achieved in the g20 talks on meeting the oecd exchange of information standards, i am optimistic in this area as well. as regards mr visser’s report, i have indicated before that the commission cannot accept parliament’s amendments but we have taken note of the recommendations contained in the report. in particular, the need for better coordination between the different member states, the necessary improvement of the quality of the information that is exchanged, the need to allow other member states automated access to certain data contained in member states’ databases and the requirement to harmonise registration and deregistration procedures are ideas that are strongly supported by the commission. this is also the reason why the commission will come forward, by the end of may, with a more substantive proposal for a recast of the regulation on administrative cooperation, where these proposals will be incorporated. in conclusion, and as i have already mentioned on past occasions, it is clear that there exists no one single and global solution for eliminating tax fraud and tax evasion. the proposals we have discussed today are two major steps forward within the framework of the global anti-tax fraud strategy at eu level.
madam president, i have asked to speak on a personal matter. mr hamon has just reproached me with something and i have to tell him that i can see that he and the commissioner are unfortunately still mixing up the towels with the towels. and i have to tell him that the only system that ensures that every taxpayer actually pays their taxes - which we all want - the best system, is the withholding system because the information exchange system is a failure. it didn't work, and we don't know who paid what because the administrations don't know how to run the system. i've been meaning to make that point.
madam president, i voted against the hamon report, which is even worse than the commission's proposal on taxing savings, because, against all logic, a majority of this parliament - but far from representing the majority of the members of this parliament - voted to abolish the system of withholding tax which is working, to retain only the system of exchange of information, which is expensive, bureaucratic and inefficient. it's incomprehensible to me! i will admit that most of the members here were not well informed, otherwise they could not have voted to abolish a system which is efficient, inexpensive and ensures that everyone pays taxes on capital income, whereas the exchange of information is advocated. mr. hamon told me, he's not interested in the fact that everyone pays taxes. he said to me last night: "i want to know that the french... (the president cuts off the speaker's microphone)
in writing. the hamon report advocates the generalization of information exchange, a bureaucratic and ultimately inefficient system. i am in favour of a tax withholding tax which would be liberating, i.e. allowing every citizen to pay off his debt to the state of which he is a taxpayer by paying a reasonable tax (20 or even 25%). this tax will apply to natural and legal persons, will be levied at source by the financial institution where the money (securities, bonds, etc.) is managed, and will be transferred to the tax authorities to which the taxpayer is subject. ideally, we should make it a community resource.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank members for their contributions. it is very important for me to hear your views on this very important matter. first of all, let me assure you that all the structures we have established in order to meet any health threat of this size have been working well and that we have utilised all the tools at our disposal. as i said in my introductory statement, since 25 april 2009 we have been in close contact on a daily basis with all the member states, and we have been assured that the directives we have given them have been put in place and are working. however, in view of the experience of the present crisis we are continuously updating our structures and tools, which makes sense because it is only in a real time of crisis that we can see the deficiencies of any structure. many speakers mentioned antivirals and the sufficiency of stocks. unfortunately, as you know, my predecessor discussed this problem of stockpiling on an eu basis with the health ministers but unfortunately those ministers did not want europe to take over this coordination. we discussed the same problem last year in angers during the french presidency and, again, the health ministers insisted that each member state should be free to decide for itself how many stocks it wanted. we know that there are many differences between the stocks from one state to another, and we are concerned about that. however, in view of the conclusions reached by the health ministers on 30 april 2009, we decided that the commission would work closely with the member states and that if a member state needs assistance then, in the spirit of solidarity, we shall call for assistance and try to coordinate the needs of the member states. as far as the new vaccine is concerned, as i said, i had a meeting with industry and we discussed at length the need both for antivirals and for the new vaccine. we hope that on 11 may 2009 we shall have the seed stocks to give to the industry in order for it to begin production of the new vaccine. i cannot say when it will be ready, as it will depend on the efficacy of the stock, but we estimate that it will take between 8 and 12 weeks. in response to ms grossetête’s question, i agree completely with her that we have to remain vigilant in order to meet the needs that may arise, certainly after the summer, and with the creation of the new vaccine i hope that we shall be able to meet the needs of our people. however, i want to reiterate the fact that the situation is serious but we should not panic. i agree with mr adamou that everybody should be as reasonable and realistic as possible in this situation – panicking does not help anybody.
the rapporteur. - mr president, 22 years after the adoption of a text which already aimed to ensure equal treatment for selfemployed men and women, including their caring spouses, the commission has finally put forward a new proposal to replace the ineffective and watered-down 1986 text, but it has done so with a more solid legal basis. i would first like to point out one major improvement, namely that the formation of a partnership between spouses or recognised partners should no longer be prohibited in any member state, which is an effective way of improving the situation of caring spouses, those millions of invisible workers employed in agriculture, the craft sector, commerce, small and mediumsized enterprises and the professions. the european parliament has been concerned about their fate since the 1990s. unfortunately, the commission proposal is too timid on one essential point: the social security of caring spouses and recognised partners. experience shows that although the independent affiliation of caring spouses to the social security system is on their own initiative, upon request, the vast majority of them do not join. all these people do not realise that in the event of divorce, often after more than twenty years of marriage and work in the family business, they are left without any social protection, especially with regard to pension rights. we also want to maintain the old provision on the recognition of work done by the caring spouse in order to provide for compensation, particularly in the event of divorce, in the event that he or she finds himself in a precarious situation after years of work for the family business. finally, as regards maternity protection, we have found a formula better suited to the specific needs of women in self-employment and caring spouses. they must have the right to take maternity leave of a duration of their choice provided that it does not exceed in total the duration of the directive on employed women. these are the amendments we want most to avoid repeating a directive which is too decaffeinated and which would not guarantee equal treatment between men and women in this area. we have read about a dozen amendments tabled by mr cocilovo on behalf of the alde group, which concern the definition of caring spouses and life partners. i am a little surprised, because in the committee on women's rights we agreed - all the groups - to stick to the definitions contained in the commission's proposal, which is legally sound and acceptable to everyone, namely that the term 'caring spouse' should also be understood to mean the life partner of self-employed persons recognised by national law. this definition is clear and precise. why do we have to introduce amendments that are vague and legally unsound? i ask the alde group to withdraw these amendments. i think there is a misunderstanding between the fictitious rapporteur of this group and mr cocilovo. i'm working on that now. unfortunately, the committee on women's rights and gender equality adopted another report with 74 amendments, most of which have nothing to do directly with the original objective of the commission's proposal, which is to strengthen the foundation of maternity protection by improving the safety and health of women workers who are pregnant, giving birth or breastfeeding. i would like to make it clear that this directive does not concern selfemployed women, spouses who are carers, or the partners of selfemployed people. their specific situation will be examined in the context of the new directive on equal treatment for men and women in self-employment, which will be the subject of a report. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate which has covered the proposal from a number of different angles. i think it is unnecessary to mention all the proposals. the vast majority of the reasons were quite clear, as i said in my opening speech. yet i think the two proposals have come up repeatedly from different quarters and have been discussed from a number of angles. the first was the question of paternity leave. i must say quite clearly that i am in favour of paternity leave, but i am convinced that a directive designed to protect the health of the mother is not the appropriate instrument to implement this principle. in my opening remarks i stated that the social partners had agreed on parental leave and that in that agreement we would logically take into account the possibility of paternity leave, which means that in my view there are other instruments than this directive. the second issue that was mentioned was amendment 14, namely the mandatory introduction of insurance. i would like to say that, however much i understand the logic, i do not think it is appropriate to take a radical step, on the one hand because it would seriously jeopardise the possibility of compromise, but on the other hand i would like to stress that the proposal we have put forward is a substantial step forward, because at present in some countries there was no possibility of even requesting access to such a system. this means that a new duty will now be introduced. it's a classic example of upward harmonization, in my opinion.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i regret that the commissioner has spoken out against the key amendment in my report, supported by all the political groups, which is that caring spouses and recognised partners should be able to benefit from the same social protection as selfemployed people, and not only at their request. experience shows that if their membership is not compulsory, they are not, and for the same wrong reason, commissioner, as you have mentioned, namely cost. of course, social protection costs money, for the selfemployed as well as for the employed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. of course, if in a member state there is no social protection for the selfemployed, it cannot be required that it be compulsory for their spouses. but the spouses must be able to benefit from it if they so request. i shall be making an oral amendment, in agreement with mr cocilovo, to that effect. let me say a few words about maternity protection, because our position has been very misunderstood. if we want to strengthen maternity protection by extending maternity leave, we must not forget that extending it to 18 weeks, only a third of which would coincide with the mandatory six postnatal weeks, is contrary to the objective of better protecting the health of the mother and the child. that is why we believe that the best solution would be a mandatory six-week period, and an extension to 20 weeks in the case of multiple births and breastfeeding. the problems of recruitment and promotion already affect women of childbearing age. it is absurd to want to impose on men of childbearing age a ban on work similar to that of pregnant women. of course, madam president, the increase in male infertility in europe is a cause for concern, but not as much as the unequal sharing of family responsibilities between men and women, which persists, because this inequality is the reason why many women refuse to have children. and it is not by overprotecting women, which has the effect of rendering them unemployable, that we shall solve the demographic problem in europe.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the commission, mrs trautmann and malcolm harbour, who have managed to reach a compromise at the last minute. after two years of hard work, we have reached this compromise in a field that will shape the future of a leading industrial sector. the commission's proposal on spectrum use has been amended in the right way, in line with the acquis in satellite technology, and the commission's announcement of a future debate on universal service and other remaining legal problems suggests that work will continue. it is therefore only a first step towards other regulations. this project will provide citizens with extraordinary access to information and culture. however, many problems remain in terms of infrastructure and quality, as access is not yet guaranteed to all with the same quality, considering the many technical problems for wireless communication that still persist. is the issue of free internet access, copyright issues and privacy issues, combined with the concern for crime prevention, ethical standards and youth protection, not a bit too much to handle? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up. i think this project represents a considerable advance. so let us give the regulators we are setting up a chance, and then the sceptics will have a say in these new institutions which will only have to prove their effectiveness.
i have to say, madam president, i think you're not feeling well today, and i think i know why. the commission's position is more that of an industrial lobby than that of a consumer protection and environmental protection simplification in europe. i have been following the labelling legislation for the last fifteen years. what does the labelling directive from the early 1990s say? that a to g are updated regularly so that only the best are in category a. what has industry done? it prevented the update in the late 90s. at the beginning of 2000, more than 50% of all appliances were in category a. then they came up with the a+ and a++ trick. and now they come with the trick of a-20, a-40, a-60. mr reul is always on the side of the industrial lobby. so i'm not surprised he's defending that, too. but, please, sir! a to g is easy to understand. what is happening here is fifteen years of brazen lobbying by various industrial circles to undermine the european labelling system. and tomorrow we, as parliament, must put an end to this spectre!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world economy is sinking deeper and deeper into recession. despite numerous summits and other meetings of varying geometry, the fall in economic activity remains very significant in europe and worldwide. the various economic stimulus plans have at best curbed this descent into hell. the momentum is not yet there. worse, unemployment continues to rise. europe will exceed 25 million, perhaps even - as my friend poul nyrup rasmussen says - 27 million unemployed this year. but instead of focusing on the dramatic employment situation, the heads of state and government prefer to deal at the forthcoming summit in prague with the 'big picture', the future relations with certain countries on the union's eastern frontier. of course, good neighborly relations are important. but let us be clear: the european parliament has on several occasions spoken out against any future enlargement of the union unless there is first an institutional reform to enable the twenty-seven to function better. i would add that any future enlargement must be preceded by a thorough reform of the financial perspective and an adequate increase in the union's budget. diplomacy, without financial means, is ultimately a useless gesture. the czech presidency of the union would have served european ambitions better by organising a real summit on employment. i know that this much-needed summit was in fact sabotaged by the sarkozy family, who prefer the effects of announcements to the concrete political work. i hope that the european voters will use their ballot papers in june to elect members of parliament who will be able to set the real priorities for europe: employment, employment, employment, social protection, defence of purchasing power. i do not always agree with my prime minister, jean-claude juncker, but he is certainly right when he predicts, and i quote, 'a social crisis in the event of a sharp rise in unemployment expected in the coming months'. the fact that the meeting was confined to an informal meeting on the employment issue shows that the european leaders have abdicated in the face of the crisis and are taking the risk of a serious social and political crisis.
author. - madam president, madam commissioner, the producers of quality wines and the informed consumers, the true connoisseurs of the products of our regions, do not want to hear about blending or cutting. understandably, winegrowers in many european regions fear the economic, social and environmental consequences of the lifting of the ban on the blending of white and red wines to produce rosé. the resulting unfair competition risks penalising entire regions that have specialised in producing a quality rosé wine suited to growing demand. the commission has already responded to the first request for our oral question by postponing the decision originally scheduled for the end of april, for which i am very grateful. but is it prepared to use this time to meet our second request, namely to hold a wide consultation with the professionals in the sector on the basis of a thorough study of the possible economic, social and environmental consequences of lifting the ban on cutting? what are the solutions envisaged by the commission in the event that it does not withdraw its proposal to lift the ban on cutting, in order to prevent this 'fragile' market for short-lived wine from collapsing and weakening the economic fabric of a whole region which is developing a whole series of cultural and tourist activities around the wine sector? is the commission aware that the labelling solutions proposed are already being rejected by the traditional wine-producing regions, since the term 'rosé' is not exclusively reserved for the wines they will produce from red grapes?
author. - madam president, commissioner, you answered our second question in the negative, claiming that you had already carried out the study we were asking for when the wto was reformed. i am surprised that during this reform there was never any question of allowing the oenological practice of cutting white with red to make rosé. please, why not follow our very reasonable request to consult the professionals? you want to make a decision on june 19th, but there's no urgency! no one has ever asked you to authorize this practice. i don't know what the hell got into you to make this proposal when nobody in europe is asking for it! and i would add that, as far as labelling is concerned, you should know that traditional rosé wine producers will never accept that this drink - including the one mr savary has prepared - be called rosé. so you have to make an effort. commissioner, i would ask you to respond positively to both of our requests.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is a sad day for the credibility of the european union. the economic recovery package we will vote on is, in reality, a non-recovery plan which will produce almost no immediate economic stimulus. we have had months of sometimes intense negotiations with the eu council. unfortunately, rather than standing up to those governments like germany, the netherlands and the uk, which adopted a short-sighted ‘i want my money back’ approach, the majority of this house and the commission have simply caved in to their demands. this outcome is very bad and it could have been avoided. we could have built a real solidarity instrument, where the vast majority of the funds would have gone to those economies most in need: our friends in eastern europe. we could have enhanced the economic effectiveness of this package by using innovative finance instruments, like loan guarantee funds and the public banks, or the european investment bank. this would have transformed the eur 5 billion into eur 50-80 billion in investment, which we need at this moment for the european economy. we could have focused our investments on those areas with immediate job creation, such as cities in europe investigating in the renovation of buildings and public transport, or independent power companies investing in renewables, or our industries in europe investing in eco-technologies. instead, you have decided to concentrate the bulk of these eur 5 billion on old-fashioned state aid to those least in need of cash: the big energy oligopolies in the uk, germany and france. instead of sending a strong signal, we are sending a signal of a lack of political courage: spineless european institutions that have caved in to the whims of nationally blinkered governments. unfortunately, we have no brave and visionary commission president. unfortunately, the liberals and the socialists in this house were not ready to fight with the greens to make this recovery package a real first step to a green new deal. before change can happen in europe we must change the president of the commission. in order to make this change happen, we need to change the majorities in the european parliament. ‘stop barroso – go for a green new deal’: this is more than ever the right slogan for the upcoming european elections.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i agreed with mr cocilovo, who was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, to insert the following clause in this important article 6: 'if the legislation of a member state does not provide for compulsory affiliation of the selfemployed person to the social security scheme, it is granted on request to the assisting spouse.' let me explain. we insist that caring spouses be insured compulsorily, as is the case for the self-employed. but if in a country selfemployed persons are not compulsorily insured, this cannot be required for spouses, who cannot be insured for a non-existent insurance. that is why this additional paragraph should be adopted. i'm also doing it on behalf of mr. cocilovo.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, as things stand at present, there are 89 amendments to this report. it is completely chaotic and the vote we are about to take will not allow us to have a really objective discussion with the council and the commission. these 89 amendments are totally contradictory. i propose that we refer this report back to committee because, as mrs estrela has said, we have plenty of time for that. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – yes, madam president, i never make anything not on behalf of my political group! (laughter and applause)
in writing. i did not vote for the general revision of the parliament's rules of procedure because, in order to avoid having an elderly president who would be called le pen, we found an un-elegant, even counterproductive solution, whereas there would have been an acceptable solution for all those here who are committed to the policy of gender mainstreaming. thus, article 11 could have been replaced by the following: 'alternatively, the oldest member present shall, as the senior member, hold the office of president until the election of the parliament is called. the order of rotation shall begin with the oldest member.' in this way, we could have avoided a le pen as president of the council without destroying the rules of procedure and adopting a procedure which does not exist in any parliament of a democratic country. that's too bad. i have more confidence in the french voters. i hope they will avoid electing le pen and that this exercise will therefore prove useless.
in writing. i commend the rapporteur for his diligent work both on the substance of the text and in the negotiations which followed. the exceptional circumstances require our swift and appropriate action. i can accept the result that is being offered to us in the securitisation. the systematic introduction of colleges of supervisors and their standardisation is a major step forward. as early as this autumn, the draft report paved the way with its idea of a decentralized european supervisory system. the report by the de larosière group and the commission communication of 4 march have usefully developed this idea. i am glad that these ideas are generally accepted. as regards the scope of the directive, one point needs to be made. instead of taking the somewhat simplistic approach of cross-border banks, it might be more sensible to target banks that are systemically important. these would be directly subordinated to the new banking authority. the other banks would be supervised by a college or, in the case of purely national banks, by their national supervisor. systemic banks should also be subject to financial stability arrangements at european level for crisis management.
mr president, i would first like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mrs ruth hieronymi, who has guided the committee on culture with all the expertise she has in this particular field. thank you, ruth, for everything you've done. commissioner, you have again succeeded in closing this important project, but it must be put into perspective in terms of the importance attached to it, which certainly does not correspond to your ambitions in terms of funding. it will therefore be necessary to provide for an increase in the resources for this programme in the next financial perspective. the status of these people, in a situation of mobility, will still have to be granted all the possibilities and all the freedoms, and here too we are still too often confronted with problems of visas, social security, status as artists, which are not resolved. there is still a long way to go to achieve true mobility for artists. for the rest, i think that the image is the best vehicle for cultural diversity. let us support this sector which is still young. perhaps the idea of the guarantee fund, which was already there, would be the means of supporting finances that are a little behind the ambitions.
in writing. mr barroso's programme is ambitious and shows a willingness to give europe in crisis the impetus it so badly needs. in my opinion, it would be wrong to blame the person of barroso for all the evils that have characterized the previous period. dealing with a large commission where decision-making is now made27, facing a financial and economic crisis in a context of difficult institutional reform certainly did not make president barroso's task any easier. it is true that in these difficult times we could have wished to hear a more assertive european voice from him. i believe, however, that it has learned from its mistakes and will be invested in the future, both for europe as a whole and for the smaller countries. by placing a greater emphasis on the social question in his programme, he seems to be responding to the european citizens' demand for a more social europe. the idea of a genuine partnership between parliament and the commission is a laudable idea and an opportunity to seize. for this reason, i support mr barroso's candidacy, but i do not support him as a blank cheque.
mr president, yesterday the president rightly insisted on respect for the community method. this method ensures that all member states, as well as the community institutions, are involved in the decision-making processes from the outset. the way the g4 dealt with the banking and financial crisis in 2008 was the opposite of the approach that mr barroso called for yesterday afternoon. in 2008, we waited in vain for president barroso to call us to order. the european union is of course france, the united kingdom, the federal republic of germany, italy, all members of the g4, but it is also austria, belgium, estonia, latvia, romania, poland, hungary, luxembourg, and so on, which were excluded from an important phase of the decision-making process in 2008. you should have imposed, mr barroso, the respect of the community method in 2008 by what you said yesterday. that's why i'm not in a position to support your candidacy. mr president, allow me to make a personal remark. it is still difficult to speak in the general din when a speaker is speaking here.
in writing. i voted for the inauguration of mr barroso as president of the european commission. my position is based on a quadruple finding. the european council unanimously proposed the nomination of mr barroso. in my conception of democracy, the winners of elections can claim for themselves the right to nominate one of their own. there is no choice but to accept mr barroso, as no alternative has been seriously considered. the criticisms of the outgoing president ignore a fundamental fact, namely that the commission is a force for proposals and that it is the member states who have the final say. my support also comes with a number of expectations. mr barroso should, during his second term, show a little more independence of mind, particularly in relation to the larger member states, and should act with the sole objective of serving the general interest of the community. i regret that the commission tends to become a conglomerate of commissioners, free to act as they see fit. i ask mr barroso to consider how to counteract this development. i would like the institution which is the guardian of the treaties to regain its original strength, namely its capacity to show the way around mobilizing projects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we saved the banks when we had to. we are now faced with a situation where we must prevent tens of thousands of farms from going bankrupt in the short term because prices no longer cover the costs of production. we must ensure that our production potential is maintained in order to provide the population with high-quality food. i'm from a generation that's lived through food rationing. i remember in the winter of 1944, i had to cycle five miles to collect two eggs. i hope that this will not happen again, but security of supply is also a matter of concern, not just in the energy sector. if we are not prepared to take the measures called for in our resolution, the cost of the social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu will be many times what ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - we saved the banks when it was necessary. this has been recognized and approved by all responsible politicians. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. we need to ensure that our production potential is sufficient to provide the eu population with high quality food. i'm from a generation that still lived through the rationing of food, the need to hoard to get enough to eat. i hope it doesn't come to that. but those who have never had to go hungry do not understand how important a strong common agricultural policy is for europe. security of supply, not just in the energy sector, is a must. i would point out that if too many farms in too many regions are forced to abandon because we are unable and unwilling to take the necessary short-term measures mentioned in our resolution, the cost to the eu and the member states would be many times what the right short-term measures under the common agricultural policy would cost. the army of the unemployed is large enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i hope our warning is heeded.
mr president, taiwan is just emerging from a terrible natural disaster, the likes of which this country has not seen in half a century. it is our duty not only to express our solidarity but also to take an active part in the reconstruction of the devastated parts of the island. the commission and the council were fortunate to be present after the passage of typhoon morakot. i urge them now to provide the necessary practical help to the government and the people of this country, because there is a great deal to be done. there are adequate instruments at eu level. they must be used to the full. this disaster raises again, as some of my colleagues have already said, the question of taiwan's participation in the various un agencies. the institutions of the european union are encouraging it in principle, but it is high time to act to change things. the taiwanese authorities did not have any weather information indicating the severity of the typhoon. this is not acceptable. taiwan's participation in the un framework convention on climate change is absolutely necessary to put it in a position to avoid the worst because other climate depressions will inevitably follow. i am the president of the taiwan-luxembourg association and i must say that we must not shrink from the blackmail of communist china in our relations with taiwan. clear and unambiguous support from the commission and the council on this issue is absolutely necessary.
in writing. while agreeing with the main lines of the ep resolution on the g20 summit in pittsburgh - and having supported it for this reason - the luxembourg delegation to the epp would like to make some reservations about elements of this resolution which do not satisfy it. first, the pittsburgh conclusions mention the need to make the beneficiaries of rescue measures contribute to the cost of these measures. this is not the same as designing a financial transaction tax, as suggested in the parliament's resolution. secondly, we advocate a system of financial supervision in which the national supervisory authorities and the three european bodies whose creation is being initiated in the european legislative procedure will cooperate in the future. finally, the widespread use of the g20 terminology of 'tax havens' should be avoided. jurisdictions that are not tax havens have been arbitrarily placed on a "grey" list, while real tax havens are still eluding any pressure from the g20 or the oecd. treating countries with moderate taxation as tax havens will not solve a crisis whose origins lie elsewhere.
in writing. i voted against all the amendments of the green group on the g20 resolution in protest at the tactic of this group of always reopening the debate with amendments which are generally demagogic. the greens had negotiated the joint motion for a resolution and had obtained approval on many of the amendments. they did not, however, sign the joint resolution, so that they could make their circus in plenary.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank virtually all the participants in the debate for their support for the very important work of the eu in the climate negotiations. the eu has a crucial responsibility. we will really need the support of parliament to play that role. parliament's actions and positions are crucial in that work. let me also say directly that i very much appreciate that development issues have been so much at the centre of this part of the debate. i would like to agree with karl-heinz florenz's comment that it is extremely important that this is not just a 'beauty contest'. it is not like an antique auction in london, where it is just a matter of bidding, but it is about creating a robust architecture that really creates predictable and further expanded efforts for developing countries in the long term. in this context, the eu needs to do a very strong job. it also means that i want to support véronique de keyser's call for the developed countries to finally meet the 0.7% aid target. in the end, this is a matter of solidarity. as one of the richest regions in the world, the eu also has every reason to show its strength and solidarity. it is also a way of saying to corinne lepage that i really agree with the need for new, increased and predictable efforts and resources to be put in. however, oda support will also play a role precisely because development issues are so integrated with climate policy. this will require both oda and new resources. one of the crucial development issues will be to stop the clearing of the rainforest. i would like to see strong support in copenhagen for efforts to combat deforestation and for reforestation and sustainable forestry. the system now being built up under the name redd will be crucial and important in this context. i mean, the people who are downplaying the climate problems are really the ones who are actually sending the expensive bill to ordinary people. it is also a way of hiding the problem and a way of hiding the reasons why ordinary people are paying the bill for the destruction of the climate. this is true in the developed world, and it is even more true in the developing world, where the poorest people are most at risk of being affected by climate change. that is why we are addressing the whole of the i-country group. in line with what karl-heinz florenz says, we are assuming cooperation with important states such as the united states. however, there is also a need for pressure to increase efforts to do the homework of reducing emissions sufficiently. that is why it is so important that the eu also tackles the issue of emissions at its heart, i.e. the emissions increases themselves. we have the most ambitious and far-reaching goals in the world. now it's time to make sure that we get others to join us as well, to the level needed to save the climate. the economic crisis is also an excellent opportunity to increase investment in green initiatives, i.e. in new green products in new companies producing green products, in growing companies producing green products, in new jobs created through green initiatives. it's a way of also renewing our economies. it is taking the lead in the march towards a low-carbon society, which also means creating the conditions for real development opportunities in developing countries. the developing countries will not have to bypass the fossil-dependent economies of the developed countries, but will essentially be able to build a low-carbon growth that is the future. it is also a way of finally turning to the fast-growing developing economies and saying that the developed countries have a responsibility for the poorest and the most vulnerable, but the fastest growing developing economies, where china is already the world's largest emitter, must also take their responsibility and make their contribution to solving the climate problem. with that focus, europe will be able to play a crucial role in bringing this also to an ambitious agreement in copenhagen.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly, what i have noticed in the debate is that all political groups agree on the principles that we should put forward in copenhagen. i think this is a very important feature. it is not very common in a parliament with so many political parties and political groups to nevertheless have unanimous support for what you are proposing. secondly, mr florenz and others have said that there should not be a competition to put bids on the table – it is about commitments. this might be true but, on the other hand, i think it is important that we have put a bid on the table and said that we are ready to do this, provided of course that we get the green light from the european council later this month. this is not simply a competition. it is about an engagement of the european union. we look forward to the other political and economic heavyweights also putting bids on the table, which has not been the case up to now for several of them. we understand that the situation of the united states is not very easy at the moment but it is important that they put a bid on the table so that we can negotiate. otherwise the deadlock that we fear we are in at the moment will continue. je crois qu'il est vrai que les pays en voie de développement sont les plus affectés, à la fois par la crise économique dont, et c'est le moins que l'on puisse dire, ils ne sont pas responsables, et aussi par le changement climatique. il faut là une solidarité très profonde avec les pays en voie de développement. mais il ne faudra pas seulement soutenir les pays en voie de développement, dans cet esprit, il faudra aussi être courageux vis-à-vis de nos propres industries et de nos propres acteurs économiques. quand on parle de la déforestation dans les pays en voie de développement, il y a là aussi une responsabilité de nos pays, de l'union européenne. je pense qu'il faudra se rendre compte après copenhague de la nécessité d'adopter des législations avec des aspects extraterritoriaux de sorte que nous ne soyons pas confrontés à une situation dans laquelle, d'un côté, nous finançons l'adaptation au changement climatique et l'atténuation de ce phénomène et, de l'autre côté, des acteurs économiques ont un effet contraire dans les pays en voie de développement. a last word on oda: i think that this is a very important topic that we will also have to tackle amongst ourselves, because one of the biggest fears is that the 0.7% of gdp would be reached by adding adaptation efforts. already now oda includes many topics which constitute adaptation, and that is quite normal. that of course will continue, but we should find a measuring mechanism by which we can clearly distinguish the present efforts we are making from the additional efforts which have to be made for climate change. that is something that we will certainly have to come back to after copenhagen.
mr president, i think there are three main points in this debate. firstly, the copenhagen conference is a bet on the future. the bet is not yet won, the presidency has just reminded us. i will not go so far as to say that everything depends on the european union, but without determination and credibility, as mrs joly has just said, nothing will be done in this area. secondly, we must be careful not to add to the uncertainty. the european union must remain credible when it comes to the impact of climate change on developing countries. it committed itself in 2005 to a level of official development assistance of 0.7% by 2015. there is no question of skimping on this objective. there can be no question of diluting this promise, either by reducing the commitment as i have just mentioned, or by reallocating the sums paid out under official development assistance to the fight against climate change. it should be noted that the sums to be announced in copenhagen for the benefit of the developing countries must be additional money. we have just mentioned the sum of 35 billion, that is an additional 35 billion. the european union would do well to leave no doubt about its determination to fight for the achievement of the millennium development goals on the one hand and against climate change on the other. if the european union were to deviate from this line, it would amount to a political rupture which would certainly undermine the confidence of developing countries in the european union. if we can agree on this, this debate will not have been in vain. third point. we need the united states, china, india, all the industrialized countries, but also the emerging countries and of course the developing countries. to this end, it would be useful to consider new north-south partnerships, particularly in the field of alternative energy production. the exploitation of solar energy for electricity generation in the southern mediterranean could, if we wish, become one of the major north-south projects in response to the economic crisis on the one hand and the climate crisis on the other. this should not in any way call into question the efforts that must be made in the fight against deforestation, for example, where the responsibility - i would also like to remind you of this - of the emerging countries, some of whom are members of the g20, is overwhelming.
madam president, do you know russian roulette? have you ever played russian roulette? of course not, because you have one chance in six of being killed or injured. if copenhagen is not a success, we do not even have a 50% chance of keeping this planet from going into dangerous climate change. why are we in this impossible situation? we have basically lost twenty years – twenty years from the big rio conference, twenty years of being lobbied by dirty industries from oil to coal to cars. twenty years of the centre-right in the us and in europe making it too difficult for greens and others to push an ambitious agenda. so next week’s european summit in copenhagen is the last occasion for the centre-right in europe – with the swedish presidency of the council, and denmark, as well france and germany, being ruled by centre-right politicians – to act responsibly.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu consensus on development defines the concept of poverty in a multidimensional way. poverty is the lack of power, opportunity and security. development is inhibited if there is no freedom, and freedom is limited without democracy. it's hard to have peace without democracy. that is why there can be no development without peace. both require full respect for human rights. the concepts are interlinked and we need a coherent, comprehensive framework to better leverage existing policies and instruments to support democracy building. i would like to thank the european parliament for its strong interest and support in this work. after seven years as a member of the european parliament, including seven years on the foreign affairs committee, i am well aware of the parliament's warm commitment and concrete contribution to democracy building in the context of the eu's external relations. this initiative, launched by the czech and swedish presidencies, has already been discussed here on several occasions, including with my colleague gunilla carlsson. the initiative is based on the premise that democracy building is a key factor in both eu development cooperation and the common foreign and security policy. there's no question about that. however, the initiative is intended to go one step further. as a global actor, with 27 member states, and the european parliament, and as the world's largest aid donor, the eu has a key role to play in supporting democracy-building in external relations. there is a symbolic dimension to this, as we hope that our domestic successes will serve as an inspiration for partner countries around the world. however, the initiative is also intended to be pragmatic and operational. the aim is to ensure that we make full use of the instruments at our disposal within the eu's legal and political framework and our institutions in a coordinated and effective manner. we're not starting from scratch. we've accomplished a lot already. we have experience in supporting democracy building in foreign relations. it is a priority area in relations with the acp countries enshrined in the cotonou agreement and with other regions, such as asia, latin america and eastern europe. we have a strong human rights framework, including dialogue with third countries and seven common eu strategies. but there's a lot of room for improvement. we can do more. we can do better. the substance of democracy requires a new political framework, and the current division of labour between the different pillars does not necessarily correspond to the needs. different instruments are used in parallel, sometimes with limited consistency. this undermines the effectiveness of what we're doing. it can also affect visibility and credibility and limit our ability to work together effectively. without inventing new tools or models to do so, we simply want to achieve greater coordination and consistency in the way we work with democracy support. how are we gonna do that? yes, by identifying concrete ways of using eu instruments more effectively in a coherent framework. we have some success stories that we can be inspired by. our involvement in the western balkans is one such example. it combines the first and third pillar instruments, while focusing on supporting policy reforms, including institution building. so it becomes a stable environment for democracy. the 'dual-hatted' role of the eusr contributes to better coordination and coherence between the eu's different instruments. we must, however, be humble. we face great challenges in the region. i want to be very clear. some are concerned - you may not be here - that we are introducing new conditionality in development aid with this initiative. this is of course sensitive. but talking about human rights and democracy with our partner countries can never be conditionality. where are we now? the relevant working groups have started discussions on draft council conclusions, based on various contributions. we are building on the work started by the czech presidency, which held a special conference on eu and democracy building. i have also seen a very interesting report from the international institute for democracy and electoral assistance, which compares our intentions when we go into democracy building with how they are perceived by our partners. it is too early to evaluate the initiative, but i would like to emphasise that the process already provides added value. the development and human rights actors are working more closely together. discussions in the council working groups on development and human rights take place in parallel or in joint meetings. as long as it's an added value and an important point in the whole initiative. we are working to ensure that the council conclusions can be adopted at the general council in november. one of the proposals under discussion is the need for country-specific approaches, which take as their starting point an in-depth analysis of a country's situation and feed into democracy building at eu level, and influence the choice of appropriate instruments. another suggestion is the need for genuine partnerships, based on dialogue and consultation, where democracy support should be treated as a separate theme, and where different dialogues are more consistent and coordinated. eu support for electoral processes around the world is important. there is a great deal of agreement between the council and the european parliament on this. we share the concern that parliament sometimes feels about the need to 'go beyond the elections'. it is necessary to put electoral aid into a continuous process of monitoring political developments over a long period of time. this means focusing on what happens before, during and between elections to ensure that there are functioning accountability mechanisms. i cannot stress enough the role of our various parliaments, that is to say the european parliament and the national parliaments, in the process of democratic construction. they must be fully involved in eu activities. i hope that the treaty of lisbon will enter into force shortly. these new 'rules of the game' for the union will make for a more democratic and efficient union. the treaty also contributes to making europe a stronger player on the global stage through the establishment of the european external action service. the idea behind this is to make the eu's external policy more coherent and to bridge the gap between the work of the commission and that of the council so that policy moves in the same direction. together with the eeas, the policy framework for supporting democracy building will be improved so that the eu can support development even better in different parts of the world. the eu's support for democracy building is of paramount importance. if a democratic state cannot deliver on the basic needs of its citizens and stimulate economic and social development, this leads to dissatisfaction with the way democracy works. the government risks losing both legitimacy and political support. i would like to thank you, members of the european parliament, for pressing this issue. you are involved through your involvement, through legislation, through your relations and contacts with parliaments around the world and through your participation in eu election observation missions. you are therefore a key force in the construction of democracy, and i hope that the european parliament will continue to play this role for a long time to come.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, is there democracy without freedom? no, i'm not going. is there freedom without rights? of course you didn't. this brings us back to the concept of human rights in the present debate. ki-zerbo, a great burkinabe sage, answered this question in the following way: "he who lives in absolute poverty has no freedom because he has no choice between several options". poverty is thus synonymous with deprivation of freedom. so there is a close correlation between freedom, democracy and human rights. it is therefore not surprising to see many references in the basic texts governing relations between the european union and third countries, starting with the cotonou convention, which provides in particular for a clause on human rights and democracy in the framework of the political dialogue with the acp countries. the promotion of democracy therefore raises substantive questions related to intelligent conditionality. these few observations lead us to conclude that democracy is not the cause of development, but very often the result of it. partnerships between the european union and third countries cannot ignore this fact. we will not go forward without determination, but we will not go forward without patience either. we now have a significant number of countries which are in the process of democratization. europe can take credit for having accompanied these processes through a strategy which integrates the imperatives of fighting poverty, of codifying human rights, of promoting democratic principles and the rule of law. despite all the criticisms that have been made of politics, and which i share, i am nevertheless convinced that what has proved to be true in the past should also guide our future action.
mr president, my question is addressed to the presidency of the council. you know that the central question for the future presidency of the european council is whether it intends to give priority to the community method in all circumstances. do you think that this criterion should be made a precondition for the appointment of the president-in-office of the council? we have seen, from time to time, an intergovernmental drift in recent times. i believe it is time to close this period and go back to the beginning of the european integration process, and to remain true to what was built by robert schuman and jean monnet.
mr president, my question is very simple. we have a president-designate for the new commission, but when will we have that new commission? in these difficult times it is impossible to continue living with a commission in which more than half of the members are packing their bags. europe needs new impetus, and so we need this new commission soon.
in writing. the european parliament is once again called upon to decide on a national issue, namely the threats to freedom of expression in italy. the luxembourg members of the epp group are of the opinion that the european parliament should not, in principle, intervene in a conflict of interest, even if it is real, in a member state. nor should parliament demand european legislative measures whenever a political or legal question cannot be resolved in a satisfactory manner for all parties concerned in a given member state. that is why we voted against any attempt to legislate at european level on a problem of conflicting interests in a specific member state. however, we are in favour of a genuine european debate on the press and the problematic concentrations that may exist in this field. this debate should not focus on a specific member state but should be approached objectively and consistently across the eu, so that solutions to the problems identified can be found on the basis of existing community legislation.
author. - mr president, in the context of this question to the commission, i would like to help explore ways of putting an end to the injustice of depriving 80% of the world's population of access to the vaccine against influenza a (h1n1) in particular and to the vaccine in general. the problem is not new. indeed, the question arises every year in connection with seasonal influenza. in general, new seasonal influenza viruses appear for the first time in developing countries. laboratories in the industrialized world are now working on a new vaccine. they can only start production if they first obtain strains from countries - usually developing countries - where the new influenza type first appeared. the vaccine, once developed, is barely enough to protect the populations of industrialized countries. the result is that the people of the south are left defenseless against pandemics. i am addressing the commission to ask what it intends to do to put an end to this injustice. is it morally justifiable to make the level of health protection of a population dependent on the financial resources available to the country? i would therefore like to know whether the commission can tell us what means it is able to mobilize to fill this gap. what, if any, would be the commission's strategy, its partnerships with the states concerned and with the institutions of the un system or with the private sector in the process of enabling the citizens of developing countries to have access to the vaccine? is the intellectual property protection regime of the wto, which i did not mention in my written version, an obstacle to the production of vaccines by developing countries? if so, would the european union be prepared to initiate a debate in the wto aimed at removing this obstacle? i would like to add one last question. can the commission indicate what measures should be taken to improve the level of health infrastructure in developing countries, which is a prerequisite for more equitable access to vaccines?
in writing. - the crisis in the dairy sector has brought many farmers to the brink of bankruptcy. after months of waiting for better milk prices, the european commission has finally put forward emergency measures to save milk producers. the aid for private storage of cheese is increased to €15 million, which is mainly for the benefit of italians. the intervention period for milk powder and butter is extended and export refunds are increased. these measures are designed to stabilise milk prices in the medium term. a milk fund of some €280 million is distributed among member states to finance national aid measures. but that's not much more than a drop in the bucket. the commission is offering member states a voluntary buying-up of quotas to encourage milk producers to abandon milk production completely or partially. productive farms that overdeliver would be asked to collect more. these measures are associated with a high national cost. i do not think that this is the case because in times of general economic crisis there is no room for manoeuvre in national budgets. the most tangible measure in the crisis package is the inclusion of milk in article 186 of regulation 1234/2007, allowing the commission to take rapid action to combat the crisis. i think it is doubtful, however, whether this measure should be limited in time. i have therefore agreed to the opinion of parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i have a specific question for mr dimas. if i am correctly informed, if we in the european union achieve the targets we have set for ourselves 20% renewable energy by 2020 and 20% energy efficiency by 2020 , then the european union's energy models show that this alone will achieve a co2 reduction of between 18% and 21%, depending on how many coal or gas power plants are still running. so i don't understand why we are arguing so much to get to 30%, because we can easily get to 30% to 35% by implementing efficiency, renewable energy and then ets and a little bit of carbon offsetting. i would also be grateful to you, mr dimas, if you, as a staunch conservative, would at last make it clear to those wackle puddings of seeber, florence and others who are already kneeling before the old industries.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by pointing out that commissioner ashton is not absent because of the post he will be taking up on 1 december, but because of other institutional commitments connected with his current post. i shall try to answer your questions where possible. the answers i cannot give you will be sent to all members in writing, because i will be directing your questions to commissioner ashton and his services. i would like to stress that the european commission's commitment to human rights has always been at the heart of all its action. the commission has also been very active in the field of transport, and in all the initiatives it has taken in africa, we have always made it a priority to ensure political stability and respect for human rights and the rule of law. this is part of the european commission's political project. in addition, cooperation clauses are always included in free trade agreements. i would therefore like to reassure all members that the commission never underestimates the importance of respect for human rights and its commitment to remind the countries with which it is negotiating about this. there is always monitoring, and if it is being done for countries that have applied to join the european union, it will be even more so for countries with which negotiations are under way. as regards syria, the association agreement broadly follows the model of the other euro-mediterranean association agreements, providing for regular political, economic and social dialogue and cooperation in many areas. it provides for the gradual establishment, over a period of up to 12 years, of a free trade area and, at the same time, includes provisions of broader scope and more substantial in a wide range of areas, such as those relating to trade not covered by the other euro-mediterranean association agreements. i am thinking of the abolition of the global tariff on agricultural products, the provisions on technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, trade facilitation, the right of establishment and services, public procurement and, finally, the mechanism for the settlement of trade disputes. as regards libya, after a period of difficult relations with the international community, this country has taken steps to normalize political and economic relations with foreign partners. i also noted during my visit to libya as transport commissioner the desire to reverse a trend which had always existed in the past. i would say that the libyans are in any case and always accepting the general aims and content of the draft legal texts on trade in goods, services and the right of establishment, the commercial rules, including those concerning public procurement, and regulatory cooperation in a number of areas of the community acquis. libya also agrees to respect other clauses, but i reiterate that the commission will continue to monitor. i hope i have answered your questions as fully as possible. as regards the exact number of free trade agreements which the commission is negotiating, we shall have the clearest and most complete answers in writing from commissioner ashton.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate, i should like to make a necessary introduction. only when the technical investigations carried out by the independent italian and dutch bodies have established the exact causes of the viareggio and netherlands accidents will it be possible to draw any concrete conclusions as to the possible improvements to be made to community legislation on railway safety. furthermore, as president simpson has pointed out, despite the two accidents, from which we should obviously draw lessons on railway safety precisely to demonstrate our commitment, we have organised a series of events in which the president also took part i would like to stress that rail transport in europe still provides a particularly high level of safety compared to other modes of transport. the report on the current first railway package, adopted by the commission in 2006, and the most recent statistics show that the opening of the market to competition has not had any negative consequences on the overall level of railway safety, which is, on the contrary, continuously improving. we must, however, ensure that this improvement is constant, and we cannot simply be satisfied with what has already been achieved. liberalisation means that the number of actors in our networks is increasing and that we must therefore always assess the quality of those involved. following the viareggio accident, the commission and the railway agency organised numerous meetings with all the parties concerned and a short and long-term action plan was drawn up in order to reduce as far as possible the risk of such accidents occurring again. the plan was endorsed at the railway safety conference organised as i mentioned earlier by the commission on 8 september 2009. as regards the specific issue of the safety of freight wagons, in particular the maintenance of their critical components such as axles, the european railway agency has set up a task force composed of experts from industry and national safety authorities, which has already met three times. the task force has a precise work programme in two phases, with the results to be published in december 2009 and june 2010. the first stage consists of the development of a programme of urgent inspections to check the condition of wagons in circulation as regards the quality of the axles. it is important, however, that these measures are not taken in isolation at national level but that they are coordinated at european level in order to achieve results that are acceptable in all member states. the second stage will deal with the more general issue of maintenance of coaches in order to determine whether and to what extent it is necessary to harmonise the various elements of the maintenance system, namely technical standards, procedures, measurement and verification methods. the international vehicle regulation regime, which was in force before the market was opened up until 2006, left national companies the responsibility and freedom to define all these elements. such a lack of harmonised standards is no longer acceptable in the new context, which is governed by the technical specifications for interoperability for wagons and the new private agreement on the general contract for the use of wagons between wagon operators and railway undertakings. as regards the certification of the entity in charge of maintenance, the european railway agency will do its utmost to enable the commission to meet the timetable set out in the directive and to adopt the certification system by the end of 2010. far from being an additional obstacle for railway operators, the certification system, which will specify the criteria to be met for a railway operator to be recognised as a person responsible for maintenance, will open up opportunities that have so far been reserved for a few companies. the national practices or shortcomings which hinder interoperability are mainly linked to the transition between the old regime, operated by the national railway monopolies, and the new regime introduced by the directives on railway interoperability and safety. the barriers in question are described in the communication adopted by the commission in september. in order to remove these barriers, the agency opened the transnational recognition of rolling stock in 2008. in this context, the agency classifies all national standards on the basis of a harmonised list of technical parameters, and then compares the standards of the various member states in order to determine the degree of equivalence. the aim is to put an end to the practice, which is common in the railway world, of using national rules to prevent the type-approval of rolling stock already approved by other states. in addition, the delays in adapting to the new legal framework by member states and industry constitute a further barrier to interoperability. these delays are hindering the creation of a european railway area based on common harmonised rules, which are necessary to allow the market to function optimally. i was talking, but there were so many questions. i now move on to the conclusion. as far as the rtms system in europe is concerned, it is operating with good results over more than 2,000 kilometres. it is true that the original specifications had some ambiguities which gave rise to divergent interpretations, but these ambiguities were removed in 2007. the commission decision of 23 march 2008 made the use of this new version, known as '2.3 od', mandatory. member states and the industry are currently working on upgrading the affected train lines and the problem of incompatible national applications is thus being solved. all new applications shall be based on the compatible standard. the commission will, in line with its commitments, financially support the sector to upgrade all lines and trains already equipped with this system to be compatible with the new version. to this end, eur 250 million has been allocated to rtms under the 2009 call for proposals, part of which will be specifically allocated to the upgrading of the related it programmes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commissioner is right, the railway system is a very safe system compared to other modes of transport. however, in addition to many positive aspects, liberalisation in the form of fragmentation of individual companies, separation of infrastructure and operations, outsourcing of maintenance work and leasing of equipment and personnel has brought some uncertainty. i think it is important to ensure that the national safety authorities issue safety certificates and authorisations in accordance with the rules laid down by the railway agency, era. are there enough checks? for example, is there any guarantee that staff training, certification and working conditions are properly monitored? in this context, what is the situation with the introduction of a community uniform certificate? what about the european driver's license? the ertms effort must also be further strengthened. the recently drawn up implementation plan you have mentioned must be binding and not be delayed by financial or national considerations. the efforts to introduce technical specifications (tsis) need to be continued and extended. this would be a huge step forward, especially in the homologation of the material and a higher level of safety in the maintenance of the material. many of the recent rail accidents and near misses are due to poor maintenance. for cost reasons, the intensity is particularly neglected and the intervals of maintenance are extended. what about a pan-european certification system for maintenance workshops? i believe that everything must be done to prevent each member state from returning to its old rules and acting in a different and arbitrary way. the border crossings between member states are a particular security risk. how does the commission intend to deal with this problem in the short term? and in the balance sheet you draw up, i want you to not forget the social aspects, but to take them into account.
mr president, what i am about to say does not concern the swedish presidency of the council, which has done an excellent job, and i wish to congratulate it, but my remarks are more particularly relevant to the whole college of members of the european council. what was not done to save the lisbon treaty? we have fought for years to make europe more transparent, more efficient, more visible, closer to the citizen. in our view, the extraordinary european council of 19 november 2009 would not have betrayed the spirit of the lisbon treaty by appointing the president of the council and the high representative only after the entry into force of the new treaty. we have fought for this treaty for ten years, and the council did not want to wait ten days to apply the new provisions on the appointment of the two posts. we would not have betrayed the spirit of the lisbon treaty, for which we fought so hard, by appointing jean-claude juncker as president, a convinced european, a good teacher, a passionate european, with remarkable experience and expertise. it's rare to meet someone who embodies so many qualities. we have not yet been told how his unquestionable qualities constituted a barrier to his appointment, because it seems to be the case. i'm not the only one who would like to be enlightened on this. the meeting last thursday, from an ordinary european council to an extraordinary european council, was also unable to mask the underlying split between the intergovernmental spirit and the community method. i'm not the only one who regrets this state of affairs. while many people believed in a new breath of fresh air for europe after the irish referendum, many also regretted the unconvincing start to this parliamentary term. in conclusion, i can only hope that the president-elect, whose human qualities and political skills are well known, will succeed in giving new impetus to a europe that is in such need of it as soon as possible.
in writing. i abstained on the climate resolution because the european parliament, as usual, is showing good feelings without taking reality into account. the european union emits some 11% of the world's co2 emissions. it cannot set an example and pay the price for the rest of the world. it is not logical to restrict member states from using the clean development mechanisms (cdms) provided for by kyoto and at the same time to ask for €30 billion a year in aid to developing countries, without criteria and without discernment, to mention just one inconsistency in the resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the european union strategy for the copenhagen climate change conference because i am convinced that a comprehensive international agreement can effectively reverse the trend of unbridled growth in greenhouse gas emissions. environmental policy in general, and climate policy in particular, is also a driver of technological innovation and can generate new growth opportunities for our businesses. i welcome the fact that europe is playing a leading role in having an energy and climate policy that aims to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. i am firmly opposed to additional binding targets without a global international agreement. on the one hand, europe, which is responsible for 11% of global emissions, does not have enough weight to reverse the trend on its own and, on the other hand, i fear the relocation of energy-intensive and co2-intensive industries. only a comprehensive agreement for the medium and long term will provide the predictability needed to commit to the major research and development projects and substantial investments required to decouple economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions in a sustainable way.
in writing. it is entirely appropriate for the committee on women's rights to recall on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women that, despite countless judicial instruments and declarations by the united nations, despite many resolutions by this parliament over the decades, we are far from zero tolerance for violence against women. there is no doubt that violence by men against women is a violation of human rights and must be punished as such. parliament must therefore remind the member states of their obligations to strengthen their legislation and policies to combat effectively all forms of violence against women. unfortunately, the resolution before us has again overloaded the boat and, above all, ignored the principle of subsidiarity. the council and the commission are not the only ones who have to deal with the problem of violence against women. we're not creating a legal basis. it exists or it doesn't. the request for an additional high-level conference will only generate expenditure that would be better spent on concrete measures.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on smoking. i've never smoked in my life, but i find this ongoing crackdown on smokers liberticidal. the existing prohibitions are more than sufficient. i dissociate myself from this constant and counterproductive harassment. the aim of eliminating tobacco plantations in europe will lead to increased imports from third countries.
mr president, i would also like to express my gratitude to the swedish presidency of the european council, but there is still a problem. the european council last thursday agreed on the amount of 7.2 billion euros to finance the partial adaptation of developing countries to climate change, and that is very good. in my view, this amount should be an additional means of development aid which the european union has committed itself to raising to 0.7% of gross national income by the year 2015. why would you do that? let us assume that the 7.2 billion is from the budget already allocated for official development assistance, and that this amount will not be sufficient to finance the millennium development goals. that would be like stripping peter to clothe paul. we await the european council and the commission's clarifications on this. any ambiguity about the additional nature of the amount announced by the european council of 10 and 11 december would be liable to undermine the credibility of the european union in the context of the copenhagen conference, which we do not hesitate to describe as decisive for the future of humanity. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i want to stress at the outset that i totally disagree with the remarks mrs sinclaire has just made against mrs ashton. madam president, one in four children in afghanistan does not reach the age of five, and the country is marked by social and health deficits, to which are added democratic deficits and, above all, security deficits. the likelihood of a clash with pakistan promotes the mobility of the taliban and highlights the need to address afghanistan's problems in their regional dimension. the inability to overcome this by military means alone predestines the european union, with its multi-toolbox, to play a privileged role. nato, which is primarily responsible for the military aspect, is discovering its limits in the face of the afghan challenge. the european union's humanitarian action, its instruments of development cooperation and its more effective diplomacy are certainly no guarantee of success, but without this contribution, nato's action is doomed to failure. a new balance of all these elements will hopefully result in a more promising outlook for the afghan people. the european union has a heavy responsibility in the present situation, but the responsibility for afghanistan, which is still too corrupt, divided and disorganized, is overwhelming. we must not forget that the partnership offered to afghanistan can only succeed if there are enough citizens supporting the reconstruction of their country. even if the task is himalayan, that is no reason to cross our arms and leave the countries to be prey to fundamentalists of all stripes.
