on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, firstly, i would like to thank mr coelho for his excellent work. although we all have different political opinions, he did his best in order to achieve a compromise. the verts/ale group strongly opposes the extensive introduction of biometrics until its necessity is proven beyond a reasonable doubt. we believe that it has crucial implications for personal data safety and for fundamental rights. we voted against biometrics in visas. we are also against biometrics in european passports. we see the current proposal as a possible way of establishing limits for fingerprinting people for a travel document. therefore, we are satisfied that the compromise with the commission and the council is achieved, the age limit of 12 years is established for those member states where fingerprinting of children does not take place and the age limit of six years is established for other member states. i would like to stress once again that our support for age limits does not mean that we support fingerprinting as such. we strongly believe that biometrics in passports can be used only for verifying the authenticity of the document or the identity of the holder. use of such data for other purposes, such as law enforcement, is neither legitimate nor proportional. we cannot agree that everyone holding the european passport is a usual suspect whose fingerprints are to be stored. that is our position, but i would like to stress once more than we congratulate mr coelho and the commission and council on this compromise.
i'm with you, mr. baroso, mr. topolanek. i would like to congratulate the czech government on its commitment to continue the political, moral and legal assessment of the crimes of the communist regime that was initiated during the slovenian presidency. the consequences of the crimes of the communist regime are a frightening scar on the face of europe. but european politicians still influence real politics by pretending to ignore it. this shows that europe still lacks self-respect in the face of russia's authoritarian ideology. unfortunately, as long as the nazi actions are recognized as crimes against humanity, but the crimes of the soviet communist regime are excused, we must reckon with the fact that europe and its historical reality are divided into eastern and western parts. ukraine's gas supply is shutting down, and russian tanks are entering georgia. until then, the common values of europe will remain an unrealized dream. i call on the czech presidency to implement the commitment made in the prague declaration!
thank you, mr president! in the final vote i voted against this report, which i support in many respects. i voted against because the report confuses traditional minorities and their rights with economic migrants and forced migrants who entered my country as a result of the occupation of latvia after the second world war, which during 50 years of occupation led to a dilution of the indigenous nation by up to 50% and even to the situation of minorities in 13 major cities of latvia, including the capital city riga. thank you.
my fellow citizens! i'd like to look at this problem in a broader political context. in fact, the so-called russian-ukrainian gas war is one of the stages in the struggle for influence in europe. both ukraine and georgia are countries we would like to see on our side, but russia would like to see their former influence restored. just as the invasion of georgia was timed to begin in midsummer the olympics and the holiday season, so the gas war was timed to end in midwinter the holiday season of the young guns. moreover, neither country was given the prospect of nato and european union membership that it had hoped for. even when we couldn't adequately counter russia's aggression in georgia, it was predictable that ukraine would be the next target. russia's political technology is one of the strongest in the world, and the country has shown that it can sacrifice vast resources to achieve political goals. in this case, delaying the conclusion of the contract to the detriment of ukraine. this political technology also has enough means to influence the processes in the country of interest, and unlike us, it plans and predicts its events. a compromise must be reached, gas supplies must be renewed, as long as russia has enough supplies to supply. thank you.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank mrs laperrouze for her comprehensive report. crises always provide an opportunity to make important decisions that can radically change our values and policies. i have reason to believe that the recent gas crisis has opened the eyes of politicians to the vulnerability of many parts of europe in terms of energy supply. both the recovery plan, the commission's second strategic review and this report offer hope for a single european energy policy, including the eventual elimination of europe's isolated energy islands, including one of the baltic states. and another aspect is the development of liquefied natural gas terminals. yes, they can become an alternative to russian gas supplies in many places, but only if national governments can withstand the pressure and do not act as additional capacity for russian gas exports, but only as import terminals. thank you.
for the ppe-de group thank you, mr president. mr tabaidi has undertaken the titanic task of trying to formulate and classify the historically diverse communities of people living in countries based on different ethnic or linguistic origins, in greater or lesser numbers. as we know, over the centuries in europe, national boundaries and names have often changed, whether through wars, mergers, divisions, empires, or breakups, and very often people, without changing their place of residence, have become subjects of another king or citizens of another country. migration has also occurred, both at the level of individuals and across entire ethnic communities. we are all heirs to it. there is no doubt that today every citizen in the european union deserves a life of dignity and equal opportunities. but what exactly is a minority in the modern sense, and can countries agree on common criteria? this is important because today there is a new migration, both within the european union and from third countries. i think it should be done first by experts, researchers, historians, ethnographers, linguists, and then maybe the politicians can do the talking, because when politicians start doing that, there's a lot of political subjectivism and selfishness that comes out, especially when elections are coming up. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank mr tabajdi for his excellent work. it is regrettable that we are not able to conclude our debates with a resolution. i am firmly convinced that minority rights must become a part of the acquis communautaire. unfortunately, the commission is very reluctant to suggest any measures in this field. we should remember that minority rights are an integral part of human rights and therefore our standards must be as high as possible. let us not forget that respect for, and protection of, minorities is one of the copenhagen criteria. the commission does not even apply the criteria properly during the accession process. we are ready to make concessions hoping that the situation will improve afterwards, but since the accessions there are still no tools to address the issue, as commissioner barrot pointed out last month. we have elaborated a common european union standard in the field of minority rights, and this is an absolute must.
for the ppe-de group thank you, mr president. i should remind you that my small country of latvia has a population of 2.3 million, of which ethnic latvians are about 1.6 million. and yet, latvia has state and local government-funded primary education in eight other minority languages, some of which, like roma and estonian, are very small. the term "traditional minority" cannot be used when speaking about russian-speaking non-citizens. in the western european sense, it could be used to describe the immigrants who arrived in latvia during the soviet occupation and enjoyed a number of privileges. first, they must not learn the language of the land and people to which they have come, but speak only russian. my country has enacted one of the most liberal naturalization laws in europe to go after these people. in the ten years since the law came into force, about 50% of the disabled have acquired citizenship rights. but, according to a recent survey, at the end of 2008, 74% of people who have not naturalized do not want to acquire latvian citizenship. secondly, only one third of minors have used the right to register children born after the restoration of latvia's independence as citizens of latvia, only one third. why, i don't know. mrs. ždanokas, who is elected from latvia and represents latvian citizens of russian origin, does not hide that after the acquisition of electoral rights for minors, the next step would be to request the status of russian as a second state or official language. what does that mean? first, preserving the privileged status of people who came to latvia from russia, and second, it would be signing a judgment on the latvian language and culture, because behind the russian-speaking people is 140 million russians with growing nationalist ambitions. we are as small as we are. and finally, we joined the european union, not to preserve the divided societies created by the soviet occupation, but to overcome it and preserve our identity. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all it must be remembered that after 1945, as the british, french, belgians and dutch streamed out of their colonies, the russians started to stream into them. also in 1949, when the geneva convention prohibited settling civilians in occupied territories, the russification of latvia was intensified, and a flow of two million immigrants was organised by the soviet authorities. it can therefore be said that, when the republic of latvia regained its independence in 1991, the soviet-era newcomers were in latvia illegally. so the russians today are being granted citizenship via naturalisation as a humanitarian act by the latvian government, and not as a right. according to the charter of the united nations, normally citizenship laws belong to a country’s internal affairs and no other countries can meddle with them, not even the un itself. therefore the position of the latvian authorities with regard to the possibility of granting voting rights to non-citizens is firm and unchanged: the right to vote is an integral part of citizenship. such a position is also in line with international law and practice. at the same time, latvia, with considerable financial help from other countries – with the exception of russia – has made significant efforts to facilitate the naturalisation process and integration of non-citizens in latvia, bringing the percentage of non-citizens down to 16% at the end of 2008. our aim is to ensure that all inhabitants of latvia can apply for citizenship and enjoy their rights fully and effectively. latvia aims to have citizens with full rights, instead of having non-citizens with many rights. i understand that this position of latvia contradicts the policy published in the russian diplomatic herald by mr karaganov in 1992, as well as his supporters here in the european parliament, but we will never give up protecting our country against these disinformation campaigns.
on behalf of the uen group commissioner, colleagues! the liberal law of latvia has allowed everyone to demonstrate loyalty to the latvian state and to western democratic values. as a result, the number of disabled people has fallen by 59% since 1993. the majority of latvian businesses are owned by russian entrepreneurs. these are arguments that allow the complaint against the latvian state to be rejected. it is worth recalling that the people living in latvia who, as part of the "interfront", fought against the independence of latvia, called for the preservation of the evil empire of the ussr, still deny the fact of the occupation of latvia, still justify the totalitarian crimes of the soviets in the baltic states, voted against latvia's participation in the european union and nato. such convictions of these people may be a significant obstacle to the desire to acquire latvian citizenship, so let's not prevent them from living their past values in the world!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are discussing the latvian case precisely because it is unique. the latvian non-citizens are not nationals of any state and they have no right to participate in any elections. all adult bearers of the status of non-citizens of latvia were permanent residents of the country in the early 1990s. the last time they had the opportunity to enjoy voting rights was 19 years ago, i.e. in march 1990, when the supreme council of latvia was elected. one and a half years later, the very same supreme council deprived one third of its own voters of their voting rights. this is a unique case in parliamentary history. the commissioner spoke only of the integration of non-citizens into society and their naturalisation. however, such an approach puts things into reverse order: non-citizens are already a part of society – 32% were born locally – and for many the procedure of applying for citizenship of their own country is humiliating and they do not go through naturalisation on principle. for the latvian political elite, depriving this essential part of the minority population of their basic rights is an instrument for preserving power. they are using the old method of divide and rule, and, therefore, action on behalf of latvia’s non-citizens must be taken by the european union. i am convinced that fundamental values of the eu, such as non-discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin and participatory democracy, must take precedence over national competences.
my fellow citizens! i asked commissioner ferrero-waldner a written question in pärnruden expressing concern that the privileges granted to non-citizens of latvia and estonia to enter russia without a visa had negatively affected their desire to become citizens. the commissioner agreed with me, but today some members the questioners are demonstrating a complete lack of understanding of the situation in latvia. further expansion of disability rights, including municipal elections, would not likely reduce the number of people with disabilities, which has halved since 1995. the latvian citizenship law is one of the most liberal in europe. every minor can acquire full rights, including the right to vote, by becoming a citizen. latvia's stateless population was created as a direct result of 50 years of soviet occupation. the so-called 'government of the people' is a political entity that is responsible for the repression of the population of the russian federation. thank you.
mr president and mr commissioner! the extent to which the applicants are interested in this debate is shown by the fact that none of them have been in the room for a long time and they will not hear what inese vaidere has just said that the actual russian visa policy was a weapon, not to facilitate the naturalization process in latvia, but to do the opposite. and unfortunately, opinion polls show that most of these people will never become latvian patriots, but they are already, in large part, patriots of other countries. and as we gain power in the municipalities, the next step will be, of course, the demand for autonomy, the demand for language status. and what the next steps might be - we can see this now as the long-term development of the situation in places like abkhazia and south ossetia - will be to share russian citizenship passports in these autonomous regions. thank you.
my fellow citizens! climate policy is important both from an environmental perspective and the need to modernise energy. taking into account the progress made in kyoto by countries with more than 20% emission reductions since 1990, including the impact of the closure of ignalina on the energy supply of lithuania and latvia, in providing for the possibility of compensation is to be welcomed, but each member state must develop a clear energy efficiency strategy. additional quotas for industry, while promoting its competitiveness, make it difficult to obtain financing. the commission's proposal to simplify the procedures for receiving european union funds and to increase the volume of european investment bank loans, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, is a positive step. in order to achieve the 2020 target, an effective incentive system at european union level should be established to support businesses and individuals using or introducing renewable energy sources. this could be done by centrally covering part of the costs. the commission must work hard to ensure that the rest of the world follows our example and that our technologies are available to developing countries. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, chairman! in the automotive sector, as in the construction sector, resources were concentrated on the rapid growth of the future, but its development was and is closely linked to the availability of credit, which is why the financial crisis hit the automotive industry particularly hard. stabilisation of the sector is only possible after the normalisation of bank lending, which in turn is linked to the resolution of the financial crisis. there is no doubt that the financial crisis will significantly adjust the structure of the future car market. the current challenge is not to maintain existing jobs but to maintain the future competitiveness of the european motor industry, and public support for the motor industry is therefore linked to two main objectives: reducing dependence on oil and its associated price fluctuations and substantially improving environmental performance, reducing emissions overlapping objectives. these tasks are also of fundamental importance for the european economy as a whole in order to reduce the risk that the increase in oil prices after the crisis, also as a result of renewed car consumption, would impede the overall economic recovery process. thank you.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, thank you for inviting me once again to this important debate on the cfsp. i think that it is becoming a tradition once a year to hold this debate and i am very happy to participate. i would like to thank the three rapporteurs, mr saryusz-wolski, mr von wogau and mr vatanen, for their reports. i found in them a lot of things that resonate with what we are thinking and doing. i have taken note of many of the things said in the reports and i hope very much that they will play a part in updating our thinking, with your cooperation. speaking today, at the beginning of 2009, at the european parliament, reminds me of where we were 10 years ago, in 1999. that was really when we began working on esdp. and when i look at where we are today and compare this to where we were on the day that we began to work on esdp, a lot of progress has really been made. nobody can fail to see what has been achieved. as has been mentioned, more than 20 civilian and military operations are or have been deployed on just about every continent, from europe to asia, from the middle east to africa. thousands of european men and women are engaged in these operations, ranging from military to police, from border guards to monitors, from judges to prosecutors, a good range of people doing good for the stability of the world. i think this is the european way of doing things. a comprehensive approach to crisis prevention and to crisis management; a large and diversified tool box where we can take whatever is necessary; a rapid response capability; trying to be what we deserve to be, a global actor, as is asked of us by third countries. obviously, if the lisbon treaty were to be ratified, and i hope it will be, we would, without any doubt, be much more effective. i should like to thank parliament for the support we have obtained over the last years, for the good cooperation that i have always enjoyed from you, the representatives of the citizens of the european union. without the engagement, without the understanding, without the support, not only of the members of this distinguished house but also of the citizens of the european union through other mechanisms – their own parliaments – it would be very difficult to play the role that we try to play with the number of operations that we have and with the number of citizens of the european union who are engaged in them. the cfsp is more than an instrument. the cfsp relates to our values, to your values, to the values of our people. i really feel attached to these values that are represented in the core of all the 27 member states of the european union: human rights, the rule of law, international law and effective multilateralism; all those words and concepts are probably a constructive representation of what we are. but the cfsp also helps shape our internal cooperation among the member states of the european union. by working together, by acting together, we define who we are. and so the cfsp is also a way in which the european union keeps on, every day, defining itself. i think that what i have said will resonate with the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs. this really is what we do and what we are about: values and action and, at the same time, construction of the european union. we act because of who we are, and who we are is shaped by our actions. i think this is an important concept to keep in mind. the security strategy of 2003 was a basic document that allowed us to map the way ahead. the three reports make reference to that document. as you know, we have updated it in cooperation with the commission and parliament in 2008. that document does not replace the 2003 document but it certainly reinforces it and brings it up to date, incorporating the threats and challenges that we face in the world in which we are living today, from climate change to terrorism, from energy security to piracy. let me say a word about piracy because that relates to our youngest operation, atalanta. i would like to underline that this is the first time that the esdp has engaged in a maritime operation. it is quite a step forward, quite a step in the right direction to have this type of operation. this maritime operation against piracy is conducted from a european operational headquarters in the united kingdom; it involves a significant number of countries and a significant number of third countries want to join it. i had lunch today with the swiss foreign minister and they want to participate in this operation because they share our concerns on piracy. this is very important. you probably think, and i agree with you, that this offshore operation is very important but that the problems onshore need to be solved as well as the problems offshore. let me say a word about structures – internal structures relating to esdp. as you know, during the last month of the french presidency, we were working on a document to reorganise and set up something very dear to me. i tried to do it from the very beginning and we have the support to do it now, namely to develop a strategic planning capability which is at the same time both civilian and military. this is the modern approach to crisis management. i think that we are relatively new to these actions and because of this we can be even more efficient, more flexible, and more able to adapt to new realities than others. and so i think that what we are doing, in having military and civilian cooperation at the strategic planning level, is very important. i have to say, and i hope you will agree with me, that military action alone cannot solve the conflicts of today. civilian action is not possible without a secure environment. this is the equilibrium we have to find and this is what we are seeing everywhere – in the middle east, in afghanistan, wherever you look. it is a very important concept of symbiosis between political, civilian and security aspects of our lives. as has been said very eloquently by the three rapporteurs, we need capabilities. without capabilities we only have documents and with documents alone we do not solve conflicts. that was stressed very much at the december european council and i would like to thank the three rapporteurs for having made this point clearly. we have problems sometimes with force generation and this is something that is very important for you to know. without more rapid force generation, be it police, prosecutors, or military, it will be very difficult to act at the rhythm, at the speed, that is required in crisis management. let me say a word about nato-european union relations because they are covered in the report by mr vatanen. as you know, we have a framework for cooperation that we call berlin plus. but not all the operations that we conduct on behalf of the european union fall within this framework, for cooperation with the north atlantic alliance. we still have problems, as you know, because this relationship has not been able to overcome some of the difficulties we have in really cooperating in operations with nato that fall outside the framework of berlin plus. we have problems in kosovo that have still not been resolved and we have problems in afghanistan. i hope very much that in the run-up to the nato summit we will be able to resolve these problems. let me say a word on afghanistan. without any doubt this is going to be one of the most important issues facing us in 2009. you have seen the position, of president obama on this theatre – afghanistan-pakistan – and the appointment of a special representative. we have to deliver and to deliver in a sensible manner. more engagement will be needed. this does not necessarily mean military engagement but we have to engage in a more efficient manner and in a more coordinated manner amongst ourselves and with others – the united states, the international community at large, the united nations. i have had the opportunity to meet richard holbrooke already a couple of times, and general petraeus. we are going to re-examine this concept in the coming weeks and it will be very good if by that time we are ready to respond in a constructive manner to a very important problem on which we are engaged, the european union is engaged, the member states are engaged, and i think we should maintain this engagement. we could talk for hours about many other issues – energy, non-proliferation, you name it, but i think the important thing is that we have this fundamental agreement in the three reports that have been presented today on what we have been doing over the last period of time. i would like to finish and say thank you very much for your cooperation. my thanks to those who work with me more intensively on some of the specific dossiers in which we are engaged. i think, as i said, how we act in the international arena on behalf of the european union will also define who we are. at this point it is very important that we do better because we want to be better.
member of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate this opportunity to participate once again in this comprehensive debate on foreign and security policy matters. let me thank the authors of the three reports, which are the basis of today’s debate. i would like to say that javier solana’s services and my own worked very well together on the report on the european security strategy (ess), and i believe that this shows in the result. the report reflects well the new security challenges the eu faces and gives a broad definition of security. let me first say a few words on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the reports before us today, and the european security strategy report, all conclude that the european union can make a difference if everyone works together to ensure that we have a fully coherent policy, one which embraces the cfsp, the community dimension and, of course, actions by member states. not only do we need to speak with one voice, but we also need to act together in a coherent and coordinated way. this requires bringing together the best mix of eu policy instruments, from esdp operations to conflict prevention and crisis response measures through the instrument for stability, development assistance, humanitarian aid, or democracy and human rights tools. let me give you a few examples: afghanistan, georgia, kosovo and chad could show how we do this in practice. in afghanistan, we have given a prominent place to security sector reform and governance within our overall assistance strategy. since 2007 the commission has embarked on a new programme reforming the justice sector. on policing, the eupol mission of the council is doing the mentoring and training on the ground, whilst the commission supports the afghan national police through the law and order trust fund (lotfa). the commission is also the main paymaster for the running costs of the afghan police – over eur 200 million to date since 2002. in georgia, additional eu post-conflict financial support is being provided. up to now, a total of eur 120 million – out of a eur 500 million package from 2008 to 2010 – has been provided to the government. this exceptional ec assistance has contributed to preventing a major humanitarian crisis. in kosovo, the commission has played its role in getting the eulex kosovo mission staffed and equipped in time. in addition to ongoing assistance, we will this year prepare a study, which should identify means to advance kosovo’s political and socioeconomic development, and its progress towards integration with the european union. in chad, we have committed a total of eur 311 million under the 10th european development fund. there, our goal is to contribute to the reduction of poverty and facilitate economic development. our priorities are good governance, including the judiciary and police, infrastructure and rural development. furthermore, we are supporting the training of 850 chadian police by the un mission minurcat through the instrument for stability with eur 10 million. we are also facilitating the voluntary return of chadian idps and refugees and providing eur 30 million in humanitarian assistance. i think this is the right approach, and it needs to be pursued systematically each time the eu is faced with a new crisis. this flexibility in our policy mix is emphasised in the report on the european security strategy of last december and referred to in all three reports that we have before us. in the ess report it is rightly said that the links between internal and external eu policies have become more pronounced, which is clearly essential when we are considering issues such as energy security and climate change, or the focus on the security and development nexus and recognition of the importance of long-term poverty reduction as a means to reducing security threats. the report recognises the need to communicate better with our citizens on all the aspects of security which are of particular concern to them so that we can maintain support for our global engagement, and emphasises that everything the eu has done in the field of security is based on our values and principles and has been linked to un objectives. we must continue to bring this message to the people, also on issues such as terrorism, and we have to say that it is firmly founded on respect for human rights and international law. we also recognise the role of civil society and ngos and of women in building peace, so reflecting a truly european approach. i was pleased to note that the ep report on the ess stressed the need to further implement un security council resolutions 1325 and 1820 on women and conflict. turning to energy, the gas crisis affecting the eu this year was unprecedented in its effect. with regard to energy security, it is clear that we have lessons to draw. for instance, the need for a functioning eu internal energy market, for interconnection and infrastructure projects, for the development of mechanisms to handle supply crises and for the eu to have a strong external energy policy is now clear, and we support this broad approach. the report calls for a greater role for the european union in its neighbourhood, but i shall not talk about that now. our relations with russia, which have been tested lately, play an important role and have a great security impact. the transatlantic link remains fundamental to our common security, and here we will soon be working with president obama on issues that are of high priority. let me conclude with a few words on a particular element of the commission’s contribution to the eu crisis response, namely the instrument for stability. the first two years of the new instrument have been successful, both in terms of budget implementation, operational quality and political coordination with council and parliament. so far, eur 220 million have been committed for 59 actions worldwide in 2007 and 2008, with the main share in africa, followed by asia and the middle east, plus kosovo and georgia. our priorities for 2009 will, as javier solana has already said, certainly include afghanistan, pakistan and the middle east. let me say that we, through the instrument for stability and in close cooperation with the council secretariat, are engaged in a number of activities and are playing an increasingly important role in providing training for mission staff on procurement and financial administration and on esdp-related training for civilian response teams. we have trained 600 police experts on civilian crisis management in line with un training standards, so that the robustness, the flexibility and the interoperability of the eu police elements have been improved. i would like to add – and i think it is a very important point, for instance on afghanistan – that we also need to ensure that the terms and conditions of service for seconded staff from member states and contracted staff are sufficiently attractive to bring forward qualified candidates in sufficient numbers to staff our missions. i think we will have to work in that direction. that means that our input into crisis management is increasingly in demand, and expectations of what the eu can deliver are high. but we will try to go and do what these expectations require from us.
drafting the opinion of the budget committee. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. with regard to the 2007 report on the main aspects and broad lines of the common foreign and security policy, i would like to highlight a number of issues which, in the view of the committee on budgets, are important. first, the transparency of the budgetary expenditure of the common foreign and security policy. the practice of the european commission of carrying over to the following year unused appropriations from the common foreign and security policy heading, which the european commission considers as assigned revenue, is a matter of grave concern. the committee on budgets has asked the commission to provide information on these financial practices and proposes that this issue be considered in one of the regular consultations on the common foreign and security policy. secondly, as regards the transfer of appropriations between the headings of the budget heading for the common foreign and security policy. of course, flexibility is needed here to be able to react quickly to crisis situations in third countries. however, the commission could improve transparency and thus democratic control in the area of the common foreign and security policy by informing parliament in good time of internal transfers. this is particularly important as most common foreign and security policy missions, such as the european union monitoring mission in georgia or eulex in kosovo, are politically sensitive. thirdly, as regards the regular consultations on the common foreign and security policy under the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, the committee on budgets considers that these consultations can be used much more effectively in the evaluation of the measures envisaged in the field of the common foreign and security policy and the medium- and long-term strategies of the european union in third countries, as well as in the preparation of the positions of the budgetary decision-making bodies before the conciliation meetings. thank you for your attention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. all three of our distinguished colleagues' reports are very professional, balanced and, most importantly, timely. without going into the specifics, the assessments, the proposals that are in the reports, i want to emphasize two things. firstly, it is important to review the european security strategy every five years, because we see that in recent years security issues such as energy security, cyber security, climate security have become very topical, and that potential conflict zones are moving from one region to another. secondly, the european union must significantly step up its preventive and conflict prevention activities. i thought that this was also possible in the south caucasus, but i think that the european union's attitude before the armed conflict was too reserved, but the european union has the right and the duty to take preventive action and mediation missions, because the european union is a peace-building project and has been doing so for fifty years. responding to challenges and taking preventive measures requires, first, political will, and, second, the development and strengthening of the institutional instruments of the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy. one such instrument is the eastern partnership, mentioned in mr wolski's report, including the creation of the euronest joint parliamentary assembly. this could increase understanding and also the development of democracy beyond our eastern borders. finally, i would like to congratulate mr von wogau on the inclusion of article 33, because in my country the situation in the caucasus and the rise of nationalism in our neighbouring countries are a matter of serious concern. the ancient wisdom of my people says, "hope for the best, but prepare for the worst, and god will protect those who protect themselves". thank you.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european economic stabilisation plan recommends that member states apply a temporary reduction in vat to stimulate consumption. in addition, the european commission has prepared a proposal to extend the scope for member states to apply a reduced rate of vat. the wider application of the reduced vat rate will not only contribute to the economic recovery but also to job creation and the reduction of the shadow economy. the amendments to the directive provide for a significant extension of the scope for applying reduced rates of vat. this will cover catering services, renovation and repair of houses and places of worship, labour-intensive and local services, car seats, strollers and so on. from an economic and environmental policy point of view, it would be important to extend the reduced vat rate to energy-saving materials and services related to energy saving and energy efficiency. i call on the european commission to speed up its examination of this issue and to prepare appropriate proposals as soon as possible. this is a welcome development and demonstrates the european union's readiness to respond to the economic crisis as quickly as possible. it is hoped that the council of the european union will also support this change. it remains only for the member states to make use of the new possibilities for applying reduced vat rates. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. i would first like to thank both rapporteurs and in particular mr el khadraoui for this difficult attempt to find a compromise. i think that part of this compromise is already on the transport committee's vote, so as to apply the levy, but part of it, as concerns the congestion, will obviously be on the plenary's vote. i would also like to thank my colleagues for their understanding of the absence of time-related charges in the border countries of the european union, where there is a lot of pollution caused by heavy vehicles that are parked at the border for long periods of time during the day and night, and finally, i very much hope that after we have adopted this directive in one form or another, i very much hope that the member states, despite the crisis situation, will not underestimate the long-term objectives of the short-term situation, which i think would be very important in solving this problem. thank you.
thank you, mr president! in the current crisis, it is better to do more than wait. the instruments offered to stimulate the economy are therefore clearly eligible. however, with few exceptions, international credit lines have been closed to the new member states in eastern europe, capital outflows are taking place and western european banks, which have the largest market share in the region, have switched their recent expansionary credit policies to a bearish one. these member states have limited or no access to financial and fiscal instruments. in the medium term, too, most countries preparing to join the euro area will be constrained by accession criteria in their economic stimulus measures. the only real instrument for stimulating the economy and implementing the lisbon strategy in these countries is the funding from european union funds. however, the fundraising may be insufficient to secure co-financing and the timing of fundraising may be delayed. to stimulate the economy in eastern europe, it is urgent to agree on changes to the rules for the mobilisation of european union funds. it is essential to simplify the procedures for receiving funds, to reduce the amount of public and private co-financing and to extend the deadlines for raising funds. the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development should be given a realistic opportunity to use the funds to finance the acquisition. these decisions will be an important signal for the recovery and stabilisation of the market in eastern europe. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president. it is positive that the new legislative rules will combine air traffic management management technologies and the drive towards the exploitation of a unified functional airspace block, thus reducing the fragmentation of european union air traffic. as a result, more efficient route planning will reduce fuel consumption, harmful emissions and, as a result, make air transport more environmentally friendly. but as regards the discriminatory and illegal charges levied by russia on european union carriers for trans-siberian flights, we have unfortunately not been able to put the mechanism in the hands of the european commission so that its position in the negotiations with russia is adequate. however, i think that in one way or another the european union will have to find this mechanism of action to influence situations where a third country discriminates against european union carriers, and such a mechanism has no other principle than the principle of mutual equality, so the task remains with us. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to thank baroness ludford for her good cooperation. she is one of the few rapporteurs for whom nothing is impossible. you know that my group strongly opposes the extensive introduction of biometrics. nevertheless, the decision has been already adopted. the legal basis for the collection of fingerprints when issuing visas is provided for by the visa information system regulation which, in our opinion, would be a more appropriate place to include provisions specifying both general rules and exceptions. now, for us, it is crucial to obtain as many safeguards as possible. here baroness ludford has done an excellent job. for us the change of the minimum age for fingerprinting from 6 to 12 is very important – but 14 would have been even better. we also welcome explicit references to fundamental rights, such as the possibility of copying data from the previous application if the last entry is not older than 59 months instead of 48, as well as guarantees for secure data protection. however, we have many concerns. my group does not like outsourcing the collection of biometric identifiers, especially on premises without diplomatic and consular protection. we also oppose the charging of an additional service fee. to sum up, we believe that the introduction of biometrics in visas has crucial implications for data security and for fundamental rights without demonstrating any significant gains. therefore, we cannot support parliament’s position at second reading. however, this does not prejudice our position on the lax report on the visa code.
my fellow citizens! i would like to thank the czech presidency for taking a big step forward in the european council under its leadership in identifying and also tackling real problems. i would like to highlight some of the points on which we must continue to work. first, it is the creation and maintenance of jobs, not so much with an emphasis on social assistance issues, but mainly on investments in infrastructure, on business renewal, so that these jobs are created. secondly, banks have received generous financial assistance to restore the stability of the financial system, but they are not rushing to take action in the field of credit. this requires both european guidelines and active action by national governments to make banks aware of their responsibilities at this time and to restart lending to both businesses and individuals. thirdly, the structural funds are in fact the only source of funds for entrepreneurs to revive their businesses, and here it is necessary to increase both the availability and the scope of the activities, to reduce bureaucratic obstacles and to increase the time taken to raise funds. thank you for your attention.
you guys! unfortunately, the common european values still do not require a comprehensive and fair assessment of the crimes of the various totalitarian regimes in europe and their consequences. half-truths, one-sided interpretations or denial of historical truths weaken europeans. the resolution on racism and xenophobia calls for criminal prosecution only for the gross trivialization of nazi crimes, but still silent about the crimes of totalitarian communism in europe. it is the last time that an objective method of evaluating totalitarian crimes is used. we can use the experience of the european court of human rights. it refers to the well-known violations of international law and principles that are well known to everyone and have been in force since at least the nuremberg trials. finally, we must have a fair reflection of europe's recent totalitarian history in the name of europe's future, of europe's common values!
my fellow citizens! sixty years ago, 43,000 innocent people, including children and the elderly, were deported from latvia without trial. if it were in modern france, it would be 1.3 million. so it's important that we can talk about the crimes of totalitarian communism today. it would be wrong to leave these crimes to the historians, as has been said here, until the witnesses and victims of these crimes have passed on to the next world. we cannot minimize these crimes, nor can we deny them. the european parliament made it clear in its written declaration that 23 august is recognised as the day of remembrance of the victims of stalinism and nazism, and that should not be denied by anyone here. the council must immediately implement this decision of the european parliament so that such crimes are never repeated in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: those of you who have studied history in europe, i think most of you know that world war ii began on september 1, 1939, when hitler invaded poland. a lot less people know that hitler was able to do this because on august 23, 1939, they signed the stalin treaty, the treaty of friendship. even fewer people know that stalin's regime supplied hitler, hitler's army, with fuel, with industrial materials for two years so that hitler could conquer western europe. even fewer people know that stalin had spent the last 30 years preparing assault weapons, tanks, parachutists. if hitler had 400 parachutists ready, stalin had 1 million parachutists ready for conquest. moreover, this foreign policy was based on the decisions of the bolshevik party of the communist party of the soviet union. in most closed cabinet meetings, the decisions are that the countries of western europe must be healed and then the soviet union can release them. moreover, on 5 december 1937, the total arrest and extermination of latvians who had remained in soviet russia began. in two years, 70,000 latvians living in the soviet union were exterminated simply because they were latvians. what, then, is the name for a regime that has pursued an aggressive foreign policy, a domestic policy that has been directed at the destruction of its own people? it is a totalitarian, criminal regime, the same as nazism. thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. several colleagues have already mentioned that today we are commemorating the deportations of the soviet regime to siberia 60 years ago. but we also know how difficult it is to achieve equal punishment for communist regimes and other totalitarian regimes. why would you do that? because it's not just about the past, it's about the future. this week it became known that the newly elected members of the latvian association 'saskaņas centrs', which will complement the socialist group here in the european parliament, will be led by the former head of the latvian branch of the communist party of the soviet union, alfred rubiks, who is on trial for crimes committed by the regime in latvia. a man who is a supporter of communist ideology and who opposed the restoration of latvia's independence to the last, and now he will be elected from a country that he himself has denied. and here is the answer to why it will be difficult for the european parliament to condemn all regimes equally in the future, and why there will always be good and bad totalitarian regimes. thank you.
i thank mr onyszkiewicz for a very balanced report. russia is a very important partner of the european union. joint action can be a good way to overcome the economic and financial crisis. but we must not allow this to cause us to compromise our principles and values. we must demand that russia restore human rights in russia, restore freedom of the press, freedom of speech and freedom of association. it should be noted that the russian corporate support programme should not be misused as a tool to strengthen political influence in several member states of the european union. in order to conclude the new agreement, russia needs to fulfil the agreement on the territorial integrity of georgia. the broad agreement should include an energy security strategy based on the ratification of the energy charter. an appropriate environmental impact assessment of the northern gas corridor should also be required. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! i don't think there's a person in this room who would be discriminated against. and also in this parliament, i think people are against discrimination. and when you read this document (this proposal for a council directive), there is no doubt that it contains a lot of very good proposals, but i would like to say that many of these proposals contained here are based on christian views, christian religion. and i want to say that one directive document cannot achieve what needs to be achieved in a long process of education, because it is a question of morality and attitude. and, going further, if this is what is referred to in this directive or the proposal for a directive, there are a lot of exaggerations about a lot of good things. a series of over-simplifications that actually create opportunities for one group of people, but restrict opportunities for another group. and i would even go so far as to say that there are a number of points that create opportunities for intrusion into the private sphere, and that goes against our core values. and another aspect is that now that the election is coming up, we're hearing more and more questions from our constituents and more and more referrals. and i think it's going to be the same in your countries, that the most common shift we hear is too much regulation from brussels, too many restrictions and bureaucracy. and that is why we should avoid going beyond subsidiarity and creating excessive constraints. i consider that this document is transparent.
thank you, chairman. i support the amendments proposed by the committee responsible to the commission proposal on energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy in residential buildings. the committee's proposal will help to increase demand and to speed up the flow of money into energy efficiency measures. member states are now given the possibility to channel these funds in such a way as to maximise the impact of energy efficiency. the most comprehensive outcome would be to use these funds for purposes that would free up consumer initiative for energy efficiency measures, and the most welcome would be measures that would reduce the risks for those who are thinking about energy efficiency investments themselves. i believe that the committee should, however, provide some guidance for the member states' future work in this area. such an approach would not only have a multiplier effect on economic growth but would also promote a more rapid spread of energy saving awareness in the member states, but the amount of funds available would require member states to limit the number of beneficiaries and in this respect it would also be rational to follow the commission's initiative to channel these funds primarily to low-income households. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are grateful to mr lax for his best efforts to achieve a compromise in such an ambitious project. the greens/efa group still believes that the amendment suggested by parliament would be the best solution. for example, there could be – and there will be – practical problems while dealing with the main destination, instead of our proposal to provide free choice when applying for visas. the council has agreed to the obligation of the member states to cooperate only. unfortunately, the visa fee will be eur 60 instead of the eur 35 suggested by parliament. hopefully there are a number of waivers and reductions for children, students and active youth. although it was not possible to achieve a compromise on issuance of multiple-entry visas by default, at least we have now an obligation to issue such visas in certain cases. the right to appeal against a negative decision is also a big step forward. now, in many member states, such a right does not exist. as a human rights activist in my previous life i especially thank mr lax for this provision. of course, for my group, incorporation in the report on visas of the report on biometrics looked like a fly in the ointment. we are against such a wide introduction of biometrics. still, we see some improvements in the visa policy, and therefore we will support this report.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the bright lights of the past winter have shown how dependent we are on imported gas and how this dependence is being used as an instrument of foreign policy. i would therefore like to stress in particular the need to establish as soon as possible a single, open and efficient internal market for natural gas in the european union by developing a network code to ensure transparent access to cross-border transmission networks in order to allow for long-term planning and development. the long-term plan should include both gas transmission networks and regional interconnections. provisions ensuring non-discriminatory access to infrastructure should be established. at the same time, i would particularly stress the need to diversify energy sources by developing real incentives for the wider uptake of renewable sources. as buildings account for 40% of the total energy consumption in the european union, their energy efficiency, economy, heating and the emphasis on the use of renewable energy sources are of paramount importance. european union, national and local government measures and financial incentives need to be integrated into a single system. thank you.
thank you, chairman. the increase of the european union's medium-term financial assistance facility to eur 50 million is the necessary response to the current situation. this is an important signal to the non-euro area member states of the european union, and in particular to those member states which have joined the european union relatively recently. the impact of the global financial crisis on the financial and economic situation of these groups of countries has been mixed, but in all these countries there has been a significant decline in domestic and international confidence in their financial systems. the strengthening of the community assistance mechanism is therefore a demonstration of solidarity between member states, which will play a stabilising role in financial markets and serve to reduce the risk of instability in the european union economy as a whole. strengthening medium-term assistance mechanisms will also facilitate member states' access to the necessary financing from international financial institutions. proposal from the committee responsible for aid to the commission to inform the european parliament of the memorandum of understanding with the member state receiving aid and of the need to carry out a review of the conditions for aid within two years. thank you.
thank you very much, mr. president, for giving me your name. i voted for this report because i believe that what has been done in the field of mobile communications by the european parliament is extremely important. when i look back at my first days in brussels, when a minute's phone call cost €3 or more, and now, thanks to this regulation, we pay these capped charges, it is a benefit for the whole of european society. i would also like to say that these roaming charges have been very vague. this is especially true of text messages. if we've got a big economy on the phone, then on the short-call sometimes companies have made too much money, and again it's not in the best interests of the citizens. i think that with this directive and regulation we have taken a very big step forward in protecting the interests of consumers, and also today, when data transmission is so important that people receive it via mobile phones, it is a very big achievement of the european parliament that these tariffs have been reduced.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would like to comment on the report by the committee on fisheries, on the report by mr c. visser, on fisheries conservation. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for my country - latvia - fishing is extremely important because we have 550 km of maritime border. as latvia is represented in the european parliament by 8 meps, we cannot be on all committees, but these issues are very important both for our economy and for our traditional way of life. the current regulation, which is also covered by this report, is not sufficient to protect coastal fisheries. i understand that overfishing is a serious problem, but because of excessive regulation, our coastal fisheries are in danger and our fishermen are actually being pushed off our baltic coast. i think that the next task for the european parliament will be to ensure that those countries that directly border the sea can maintain both their traditional way of life and their practical fishing activities, because it often happens that our fishermen are forced to buy products from large companies fishing in the distant oceans, while losing hundreds, even thousands of jobs for the coastal population, for whom this has been the main source of livelihood for centuries. thank you very much.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. i'm not going to let you down. i would like to thank, of course, both rapporteurs and all those involved in the search for a compromise, but i would like to say that our achievements are both positive and negative. for example, in passenger transport, we have succeeded in reducing the barriers to transport in border areas where there is an intense flow of cross-border transport. however, at a time when solidarity is needed in economically difficult circumstances, there are trends towards protectionism in national markets and, thanks to the use of the term 'temporary', restrictions still serve as a justification for many member states to continue to protect their home markets. unfortunately, member states will be able to use a 'safeguard clause' which allows member states to invoke serious disturbances in the national transport market to refer the matter to the commission and decide on safeguard measures. moreover, it is regrettable that this will continue beyond 2014, which was the original position of the european parliament. the same could be said for international bus transport. the condition that, where international transport threatens the viability of the provision of similar services, a member state may suspend or revoke the carrier's authorisation is, in my view, unacceptable for the functioning of the single market. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. our draft resolution on the g20 summit mentions, firstly, the fact that several european union countries have received support from the international monetary fund to deal with their balance of payments problems and, secondly, the fact that several euro area countries, thanks to the euro, have been able to avoid exchange rate pressures in this situation. but unfortunately, those new european union member states cannot reduce the pressure of currency risk because they cannot join the euro area. at the same time, the economies of several new european countries were overheated precisely because many european banks, fighting for markets in these countries, poured in a lot of money, and now all the currency risk is on the shoulders of the borrowers. my call would therefore be to consider whether, in particular, the new european member states that have joined the exchange rate mechanism tool, would have a fixed exchange rate that would allow a large part of these loans to be repaid back to european banks, but would not mean that these countries should also be helped to adopt the euro more quickly. moreover, solidarity is very important even in difficult times, and we are really in the same boat, especially now that, to be honest, even those countries that have already adopted the euro, with budget deficits of more than 10%, are not able to meet the maastricht criteria. we're in the same boat, and we think alike! thank you.
thank you, mr president. as a former environment minister in latvia, i have been concerned for a long time about what is happening in this field, about this amazing cruelty to animals, and this amazing cruelty is expressed on an industrial scale. and i would like to say that it has nothing to do with the traditional inuit way of life, because the traditional way of life does not involve the industrial slaughter of animals to supply the world with deer products. i have held off on the supplementary proposal, but i have held off because i do not think that any compromise is necessary on this point. i voted strongly in favour of the legislative resolution and i am very pleased that parliament has taken a decision worthy of a european citizen to ban the marketing of these products.
thank you, mr president! as regards the podimata report, i would like to point out that we can support both the commission's proposals and the itre reports, as well as the proposals of the greens and other political groups, because i see the interests of consumers as the main interests in this report. the main objective is to inform consumers about the most economical and environmentally friendly electrical appliances. i therefore tried to demonstrate a balanced approach with my votes, and in this case to highlight the interests of the european citizen consumer.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, chairman! the agreement reached to support the long-term energy policy of the european union by providing short-term stimulus to economic recovery seems to me to achieve both objectives. the only exception that cannot provide a short-term economic return is the financing of carbon capture and storage projects, but this undoubtedly meets the long-term energy policy objectives by increasing the technological competitiveness of european union companies on world markets where alternative forms of energy will not be able to replace coal combustion in the foreseeable future. i very much welcome the fact that the bulk of the funding has been directed towards projects for interconnecting the european energy networks. it is welcome that significant funds have been allocated to the integration of the baltic states, the most isolated region of the european union, into the european electricity grid. although these investments do not solve the problem of the full integration of the three baltic markets into the european networks, they are nevertheless an important, strengthening and contributing factor to the security of energy supply. i hope that this will serve as an incentive for the baltic states to continue structural reforms in their energy systems, to create market conditions that will improve the situation of energy suppliers in the region. thank you.
my fellow citizens! the 5 billion initiative as a whole is a good basis for both the further development of the european union's common energy policy and for rural development in the long term. it is essential to strengthen internal networks as well as to create interconnections by creating common networks. i believe that a greater emphasis should be placed on energy efficiency and diversification, creating real incentives for the use of offshore wind energy, geothermal and other renewable energy resources. the plans of the member states, including the big germany, france, the uk , must be drawn up in the european union in the direction of a common energy policy. a maximum co-financing rate of up to 50% should be set for countries particularly affected by the economic crisis. there is a real need to support local and regional initiatives towards the deployment and use of renewable energy sources. when it comes to rural development, the real situation needs to be given more attention than historical indicators. this is not just about broadband, but also, for example, rural road development. the european agricultural fund for rural development should be made available in particular to the economically weaker member states. thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. commissioners, please! the compromise of not returning these five billion to donor countries, but using energy for large-scale rural development projects, is nevertheless such a major political emphasis. this shows that european solidarity has not been completely lost, even in times of crisis. i understand the comments of some colleagues that a large part of the money has gone back to these countries and their energy projects, but i think that the principle of solidarity is still very much alive in this proposal. and i think that the launch of a long-term energy project, such as the connection of the baltic states to the nordic electricity grids, is also the right signal, because the short-term crisis management issues, however, have to be dealt with by the member states themselves, taking into account their specific situation. another thing we have to be very careful about, i think, is that these short deadlines for project implementation can lead to a great deal of concern that projects will not be implemented from this proposal. and we all have to be very responsible there. thank you.
mr president, it was not clear which report i should now comment on. i refer to the reports by mr stauner, mr maldeikis and mr corbett. yes, i want to speak. i just didn't react right away. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this five billion package, which has been largely devoted to rural development, i would particularly like to stress the importance of looking beyond the formal indicators to the real needs of rural development. broadband is needed in all member states, but there are member states, like my own, that also need to improve road infrastructure and other measures to maintain the countryside. i would call for more attention to be given to convergence policy, to cohesion policy and to greater support for those member states which are in economic difficulties and which are perhaps at a lower level of economic development than the old member states. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to emphasise that the european parliament is an institution that promotes democracy both throughout europe and within the parliament. unfortunately, there were several points in that report, several theses that i could not support. although driven by the most noble intentions, i do not think that the european parliament should support a law that restricts what is directed against one person. nor do i think that democracy is enhanced by the fact that the president of the european parliament has the right to decide whether or not to give his consent to a written declaration. however, they are a member's right to speak. similarly, the debate on the blue cards may turn into an internal party billing. i regret to say that i was forced to vote against such proposals by the european parliament. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i generally support the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund and it is good if we can help those who are in difficulty. however, i do not know whether those who are in trouble should always be found in the most developed countries. whether it is the german car manufacturers or the french car manufacturers or the spanish car manufacturers, i think that similar noises, similar noises are also heard by people in the less developed countries, even in the smaller member states. and if a few dozen people lose their jobs, in a country of 2.3 million people, it's just as significant as if ten times as many people lost their jobs in the larger member states. i would therefore very much like to see this fund focus more directly on the smaller member states, the member states with lower living standards and with higher unemployment threats. thank you.
i would like to express my appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, for this report and for the intention to use community financial assistance for energy projects to help the economy recover. clearly, energy projects are our future, and those countries that adapt to a low-carbon economy, that demand better innovation and the introduction of renewable energy sources, will also be winners in their competition. in this context, the short deadline for the submission and evaluation of projects is a minor concern, which again could perhaps create additional difficulties for the new countries. i would like to see the commission proposals and a well-founded programme to increase the amount of money allocated to energy efficiency projects. the same should be said for heating buildings, which would be very helpful not only at national but also at regional level. and i would like to see support for local, regional and individual activities. thank you.
mr president, mr barroso, mr reinfeldt, and i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to congratulate the swedish government on the ambitious objectives of its presidency. this is not an easy time for europe, and it is full of challenges. among the many important priorities that sweden has set for its presidency, i would like to highlight the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region, in particular the section on energy market security. the security of a common european energy market is not possible as long as there are fragmented and mutually isolated markets for both electricity and gas in europe. for historical reasons, this problem is particularly acute in the baltic sea region. to tackle this problem and diversify the risks of energy supply, we need a single energy policy for the european union. such a policy should be based not only on energy efficiency and renewable resources but also on the creation of a single electricity and gas market with functioning interconnections. the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region is a step in the right direction. it provides for the gradual integration of energy markets in the region, overcoming the shortcomings of interconnection and establishing common market mechanisms. the legacy of the soviet union's occupation of the baltic sea region has created a fragmented and partially isolated market, which increases the risks to our energy supply. our challenge for the future is to change this situation and to increase our overall energy security. i wish the swedish presidency the best of luck in getting this important work under way with energy. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president, mr president of the commission! there are some small new member states which, even before joining the european union, maintained a fixed exchange rate for their national currency against the euro for many years. this has allowed the european union's financial sector to invest and earn well in these countries, but in the midst of the crisis, maintaining this tight exchange rate has led to a dramatic social devaluation of the incomes of the people in these countries and speculative attacks on central bank foreign reserves, at great cost to both the citizens and the european commission as the lender of this money. a faster introduction of the euro in these countries would reduce these costs and create stability, and i would therefore like you, mr president of the commission, to use the same political fervour with which you defend the lisbon treaty to encourage the use of the maastricht criteria to deal with the crisis. thank you.
i would like to confirm that the members of the group of the european people's party from latvia will support the candidacy of president barroso. we support you because we hope that you, mr barroso, as president of the european commission, will continue to work towards a fairer europe. we believe that there should be fairness between all member states in supporting farmers, regardless of the length of their membership of the european union. we also expect you to take a leading role in reforming the common agricultural policy and ensuring a level playing field for all member states. we call on you to take a leading role in the further liberalisation of the european services market. europe will only emerge from the crisis successfully if its strategy is based on a strong single market and a level playing field. indeed, the european institutions have a stabilising role to play in the management of the crisis in the most affected member states, and latvia knows this. thank you to the european commission for your cooperation! the single european currency has proved its stabilising role in times of crisis. the baltic states have set themselves the objective of joining the european area, but in the context of the global crisis this is a very difficult task, and we therefore call on the commission to encourage the prudent, crisis-sensitive and flexible application of the provisions of the stability and growth pact and the maastricht criteria. i am convinced that the early accession of the baltic states and all the european countries to the european area - the euro area - is in the common interest of all europeans. mr president, we call for an accelerated move towards a common energy policy to reduce europe's dependence on monopolies. i wish you luck in tomorrow's vote.
mr president, as an mep elected in latvia, i welcome the fact that the first example of a strategy for a macro-region concerns the baltic sea area. nevertheless, in my opinion a number of community objectives have been forgotten here – for instance, a high level of social protection. some of the region’s member states, including latvia, have been severely hit by the economic crisis. our financial sector is interconnected with the scandinavian one. this means that our problems will create problems there, so this is not a national issue. recently latvia received medium-term financial assistance for balance of payments, provided for by the commission. unfortunately, there are no social conditions for such assistance. as a result, the government is reducing pensions and benefits, but the commission tolerates this. my second concern is about fundamental rights. mass statelessness and minority protection still constitute a topical issue in two of the region’s member states: latvia and estonia. i think that the strategy must be more ambitious and seek to attain all the objectives of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. as a latvian politician, i know very well what it means for a country to be energy dependent. although latvia produces about one third of all energy from domestic renewable resources, the other two thirds of our energy balance comes mainly from one supplier country russia. as a small country with a high dependence on energy supplies, we understand how expensive this dependence can be both in terms of price to the final consumer and to the country as a whole in terms of political influence. the energy balance situation in each member state of the european union is different, but we all share the same concern: the security of energy supply. security of supply is achieved through diversification of energy sources, because the more suppliers we have, the less dependent we are on any individual supplier. russia is an important gas supply partner for the european union. in europe, we import about a quarter of all the gas we consume from russia. some countries, such as latvia, are even 100% dependent on russian gas supplies, and europe's total dependence on russian gas supplies tends to increase with each passing year. one of the alternative sources of supply is the planned nabucco pipeline, which would supply gas to europe from central asian countries via turkey. i think it is very important that the european parliament gives its particular support to this project, because it will directly enhance our common security of gas supply, but the nabucco pipeline is only the beginning of our common security of gas supply. we need a single european energy policy to coordinate our action on all energy issues. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european union is affected by the global economic crisis, but the baltic states have been hit hardest by the recession. for these countries, the exit from the economic crisis is closely linked to the full adoption of the euro. although all the baltic currencies have been directly linked to the euro since 2005, the formal maastricht criteria still do not allow them to be fully integrated into the euro area. the baltic states have suffered from the european central bank's low interest rate policy, which exacerbated credit and real estate bubbles, but have been deprived of the benefits of genuine currency stability. i call for a political decision to be taken and for the baltic states to be moved towards the emergency introduction of the euro. the small economies of these countries are not threatened by the eurozone. the threat is regional instability, leaving these countries outside the eurozone. thank you for your attention.
my fellow citizens! mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to draw your attention to the very dangerous economic situation in the republic of latvia. right now, the country is planning to close 50% of hospitals. unemployment in some regions is as high as 25%. in latvia 50% of the workforce has been laid off, 30% of police officers, 30% of teachers, 30% of doctors. tax reforms aimed at raising taxes will lead to a complete collapse of the economy. in this situation, instead of aid, latvia is given credits, demanding a further reduction in the minimum budget. it has gone so far that some swedish ministers are literally blackmailing the latvian government by demanding a cut in funding. it's all led to a social explosion...
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i also want to thank our colleague, carlos coelho, for his report. we do indeed need a simple and effective, transparent mechanism for the schengen evaluation. i agree that the commission should play a more active role in the evaluation mechanism which mr barrot just talked about. nevertheless, we parliamentarians have a number of concerns. you know that our green group has a very strong position concerning personal data protection. the commission forgot to mention outsourcing when speaking about the security of consular premises. it has also forgotten about it security provisions for these. besides the annual evaluation programme, article 7 of the regulation must take into account not only the risk analysis provided by frontex but also the audits and inspections conducted by member states themselves. therefore we demand that data protection concerns be taken into account. when speaking about the codecision procedure and the proposal of mr coelho, our group, the green/efa group, fully supports his position. i shall not remind you about the role of the european parliament as an elected institution. we have heard already that, under the lisbon treaty, the codecision procedure will be the only option. we fully support the rapporteur and we also support his proposal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, i too thank commissioner barrot for his explanations. of course we also deplore the current situation with sis ii and vis. but i would also like to raise some other concerns as well, because you know that our group has a specific position on using biometric data, in particular in vis and sis ii. i would like to use this opportunity to underline our position. like sarah ludford, i am also extremely thankful for the extra time to speak this evening. for me, too, it may be too much, even though my time is six minutes, not ten. we also regret that more and more authorities have access to these systems. currently we are concerned that sis is being transformed from a technical tool into a general system of control and surveillance. therefore we would remind the commission that a coherent legal framework for data protection based on the highest standards, and the adoption of a legal instrument on minimum safeguards in procedural law, is the necessary precondition for the full implementation of those new systems. we also want to deplore the lack of cooperation from the council, in particular the refusal to use the codecision procedure for the implementing measures. we hope that in future the european parliament will regularly receive reliable information on the tests, costs etc. i do not want to repeat an earlier speaker’s question, but we, too, would like information from commissioner barrot on contract and obligations arising from it, and what will happen if the test is unsatisfactory, and we would also like to know about possible costs. the issue is perhaps also one of approval: we would avoid a lot of questions if our parliament were allowed to participate actively in the whole process from the very beginning. therefore i hope that this case will also prove that now it really is time to cooperate.
i would like to talk about the joy of the lisbon treaty finally coming into force and about who should be the president of europe, because to preside over the european council is not to preside over europe, it is to stand with the member states of the european union, the heads of the member states, to support and promote, to strengthen the role of the european union among the leading global powers of tomorrow. and i would like to say that vaira vike-freiberga, the former president of latvia, she has all the qualities of a personal leader and the experience of a political leader to make her a successful president of the european council. her fate symbolizes the history of our divided continent a refugee after world war ii, she returns to latvia as soon as our country is free again, she returns to become the country's president. and in the eight years of her presidency, latvia becomes a member of the european union and nato. vaira wieke-freiberg is a committed european citizen, a highly educated and powerful figure with a deep understanding of the challenges facing europe's future. she will certainly be able to make unpopular decisions if necessary.
author. − mr president, i come from latvia, a country hit severely by the financial crisis. latvia was at risk of going bankrupt without financial assistance from outside. we received such assistance from the eu and the imf. however, as a precondition, the latvian government had to cut budgetary spending. it did so by reducing pensions by 10% and the pensions of working pensioners by 70%, reducing family benefits and maternity benefits for working parents by 10%, as well as reducing non-taxable personal income tax thresholds. the approach, as you see, was an egalitarian one. whether one’s pension was eur 100 or eur 1 000, 10% was taken off. the commission welcomed these cuts which were made in such a scandalous manner, and signed a memorandum of understanding with latvia. it was clear from the very beginning that such unselective cuts would hit the most vulnerable in society. is the commission not aware of the european year against poverty? the latvian situation is not unique in the union. hungary and romania have also received community loans. other countries may one day be forced to apply for such loans. we must therefore avoid creating a precedent of accepting antisocial measures. commissioner, of course you can say that you only give the money, and that the governments of the member states are responsible for social policy. but social rights are legally binding on the institutions of the european union. this means that everything the institutions do must be measured against social rights. otherwise words about a high level of social protection as an eu task will do no more than raise an ironical smile.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the european commission has shown an understanding and solidarity response to member states that have been hit by fiscal difficulties as a result of the crisis. stable and strong social support systems cannot be maintained without strong economies in the member states. the colleagues propose to tighten the conditions for financial support, which i consider undesirable in principle. rather, it would be necessary to seriously consider the possibility of extending the conditions for receiving financial assistance, allowing it to be used not only to strengthen national budgets and financial systems, but also for economic development. investments in the economy are necessary to ensure stable social support systems in the long term. this use of financial assistance would also be the best way to provide immediate assistance to member states in financial difficulties. the emergence and further stabilisation of these countries is closely linked to the european union's policy towards them. only concerted and effective action at the european union level will deliver results. financial assistance is not and cannot be the only way european countries can support each other. complex solutions are needed to promote the economic development of all the member states of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement, and i agree that the current situation of eu law does not entitle us to legislate in the field of linguistic rights. on the other hand, as of 1 december we shall have a clause in article 2 of the treaty on european union stating that the union is founded on the values of respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. this probably cannot be a solid legal ground for immediately building our own minority rights concept in the acquis communautaire. nevertheless, we deserve a statement today that is more focused on the commission's political stance regarding minority rights and the message must, in my opinion, be very simple. a party that acts against the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including linguistic rights, acts against the core values of the union. we name and shame those countries outside the eu which have a bad human rights record, even though the eu cannot impose legally binding obligations on them, but why are we so reluctant to name bad examples inside the eu, even if we cannot impose obligations? you mentioned the council of europe and osce documents, but the commission should also undertake the obligation to monitor whether member states are fulfilling their obligations under these documents. finally, in parliament itself we do not fulfil this multilingualism requirement. i, for example, cannot speak my mother tongue despite the fact that 40% of the population of my country, latvia, has russian as its mother tongue.
thank you, mr president. two events have taken place in the european community in the past week. in football, the public saw the referee pick the team that would go to the world cup, but the public did not see or understand how and why some of the referees picked the european champions. and if you ask who the next white house or kremlin leader will call, they'll call the same people they called before. the council's december action programme on the economic, financial and employment situation i call on the swedish presidency not to forget the well-known situation in the baltic states in this area. in these aggressively invested countries, desperate to keep their investors' favourable, strong national currencies pegged to the euro, the economies of the countries are actually devalued and the whites are champions of unemployment, and the demographic society is also bleeding. what kind of european solidarity will we be able to tell our citizens when their social and economic situation is further away from the european average than before joining the european union?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union's economies are still suffering from the effects of the global economic crisis, but young entrepreneurs and small business owners whose business ideas are currently not supported by lenders are the hardest hit. economic growth occurs when new jobs are created. new jobs are created when companies have access to finance to implement their ideas. unfortunately, in this crisis, banks are reluctant to lend money to companies for fear of risk. private equity has also fallen. in such circumstances, micro-enterprises and young entrepreneurs with ideas for development but no funding suffer the most, and it is clear that if these enterprises cannot develop, then no new jobs will be created, which is a prerequisite for exiting the economic crisis. the solution to this problem is the european microfinance facility, which provides €100 million for the development of micro-enterprises and start-ups by reallocating funds from existing sources of money. unlike the large stimulus packages that have been created over the last year mainly to rescue the financial system as such, this programme is aimed specifically at entrepreneurs rather than banks. this means that this money will help create jobs in the most direct way and stimulate the real economy. i urge my colleagues not to delay in deciding on the establishment of this microfinance programme. the crisis in the european union is now happening, new jobs are needed in europe now, support for new business initiatives is needed now.
mr president! i want to talk about the european structural funds. they represent around 35.5% of the total european budget. in particular, the regional development and cohesion social funds amount to 308 billion for the period 2007-13. in 2010 they are still 39 billion in commitments, about 31 billion in payments. what are the risks and challenges? the information is up to date as of 1 october 2009. we're at the end of the second year, the linear execution could be 28.5 percent, the execution payment rate is 24.35 percent, and here are the first problems. 55% of countries are below this average. the worst performing country is -40% of the average, and the difference between the best and worst performing countries in the recovery of funds is 370%, or 3.7 times. if we look at individual funds, in the regional development fund, 22 per cent of countries are below average, the worst are about 50 per cent below average, and the differences are 500 per cent. some countries are five times worse off than the best performing! in the social fund, the figure was 22%, below the average, the worst -43%, a difference of 3.7 times. and in the cohesion fund, the worst country is 68% below average and the difference between the best and the worst is 300%. what are the risks? if we look at the comparison between 2000 and 2006, when there was no crisis, we see that the countries that are now lagging behind in receiving funds are among the countries that were not receiving funds before that. specifically, we have $16 billion in unpaid money for the old fund for 2000-2006. the reconstruction and development fund has lost 2.4 billion in total. this means that 20% of the member states have not received this money and will not receive it again. the social fund has 1.9 billion, because 16% of countries have not met the indicators. in total, that means 4.3 billion are scheduled...
mr president, briefly, i want to stress one thing as the commissioner is here. we have a problem: in the committee on regional development we are still working on the proposals for changes whereby, for 2009-2010, the european commission (ec) will not ask the member states for cofinancing. the entire funds amount to more than eur 6.6 billion. we have adopted the 2010 budget, but there is no money in this budget to provide for those needs; the 2009 budget is finished. the committee on regional development is still waiting for the new ec proposal because the previous proposal was rejected by the council. we have to be very clear on what we have to do next. my understanding is that there is no room for this proposal, but the situation has to be qualified. otherwise, the committee on regional development will be working in one direction, and we in the committee on budgets will have no idea what we can do because we have no more money for these proposals in the upcoming 2010 budget.
thank you, chairman. colleagues, i want to ask those who defend saakashvili's position, were you in south ossetia? did you see what the georgian army did to chinvali? i was there during the war and saw it all for myself. what the georgian state power has done is a crime against the people of ossetia and abkhazia. the occupation. i spoke to many ossetians and abkhazians. the people of ossetia and abkhazia do not want to live in the same country with saakashvili. if anyone wants to solve this profound international problem with weapons, as saakashvili did, then there is a very good russian expression "zamucuyutsya pil'y glatatj", which means that they will never succeed in anything. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group the president, the commissioner, mr j. almunia! to help the economies of the central and eastern european member states and to help them recover, there are two possible routes: to give fish or to give mackerel. of course, the best thing to do is to give a gift of money. the challenge is to understand what this particular piece of furniture should look like. the cornerstone and yardstick of recovery is job creation. to make this happen, investment is needed. one of the main obstacles to investment in the region is the uncertainty surrounding the exchange rate of national currencies and the introduction of the euro. the introduction of the euro in the new member states is now like a horse race, with each country trying to qualify for the euro. it may be that in such crisis situations, a member state does itself harm, for example by cutting budget spending sharply, raising unemployment above the level its economy can bear. it may also happen that one member state, by joining the euro area, harms the neighbouring economy outside the euro area by attracting investment and increasing unemployment in the neighbouring country. the european union is built on the principle of solidarity. with the enlargement of its member states in 2004, europe developed and adopted a common strategy for the admission of these member states. i believe that the european commission must review the process of introducing the euro and develop a clear strategy for introducing the euro that does not lead to member states indirectly harming themselves or their neighbours. the stability criteria must not be changed, but a common plan and timetable must be drawn up for the whole region so that we can introduce the single currency in europe in a certain way, in a way that is known to all. it would be a key to help the region's economies recover, opening the door to investment and job creation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i come from latvia, a country hit heavily by the financial crisis. due to the irresponsible policy of right-wing governments, latvia risked going bankrupt without financial assistance from outside. now we are speaking about different financial and economic solutions which could change the situation for the better. of course we must properly discuss all the solutions, including the speedy introduction of the euro. in the mean time, i am afraid that the financial and economic perspective is only one side of the coin. we have to discuss the social perspective as well. now the eu institutions are perceived as the ‘bad guys’ by many residents of latvia: the bad guys who make our poor government cut pensions and benefits, the bad guys who are to blame for social exclusion and poverty. there are many politicians who cultivate this perception, mainly inside the ruling coalition, because, if people believe that the current social crisis is our government’s fault, the government will not survive the forthcoming general elections. do i believe that latvia and other countries of the region urgently need the eu’s helping hand? yes, i do. but i strongly believe that we need a strong mechanism for control and we need very strict conditions in the field of social policy. eu money should first of all go to save common people, not banks or state bureaucracy. therefore using this opportunity i would ask all my colleagues and fellow members to sign written declaration 0056/2009, which was initiated by representatives of three political groups, on social conditionality for european union help.
for the ecr group thank you, mr president and mr commissioner! i thank mr verhofstadt for raising the question. the question posed in this evening's debate may, however, be misleading to european union citizens in western europe. we are also suffering from the financial crisis because eastern and central europe, through its reckless governance, has created these problems for itself and for us. this view undermines the already strongly held belief in the european union's cohesion policy. but the baltic example proves that we are in the same boat. the scandinavian banking sector's drive for market share and high profits virtually excluded the national currency from the credit market in the baltic, especially from the housing mortgage market. at a fixed national exchange rate, the civil liability of the borrowers is very high for the lenders - the entire currency risk in the value of the collateral overpaid is left to the borrowers. in late 2008, the latvian government, the international monetary fund, the european commission and the swedish government agreed to buy out the second largest commercial bank in latvia with only latvian taxpayers' money and to maintain a strong national currency. thus we latvians, after many years of losing our income, competitiveness and possibly the quality of our society, saved the scandinavian and other investor banking sector as a minimum in the baltic states. because the domino effect of a bank failure would go far beyond the borders of latvia and would be carried even to, say, scandinavian pension funds as bank shareholders. yes, we were helped by the european commission, and the international monetary fund funded this choice, but the lion's share of this loan goes to stabilizing the banking sector. by not allowing a default and maintaining a tight exchange rate, we devalued our economy by - 20% of gdp, but actually helped our neighbouring estonians, whose plus, of course, was responsible for the budget balance for many years, to introduce the euro as early as 2011. and what seems odd is that the european monetary union itself is in dire need of an example like estonia, which seems to show that the maastricht criteria for the euro are working even in times of crisis. it's not that we don't like the estonians, but our victims, by robbing the bank, knew that a degree of solidarity would not harm their neighbors and aggressive investors. we just wanted to see some solidarity from european financial policymakers, including on the new eurozone countries at the barrier. latvian politicians had to make deadly decisions that most of their older european colleagues would not have dreamed of. but we cannot do away with the currency risk of private debt to our citizens, and we do not want to behave hooliganally by unilaterally introducing the euro or by circulating the euro alongside the national currency. but the goal of our demographically aging society cannot be to exchange every second dollar earned for euros for years and years and then give it back to the banks and pray at night that the dollar will hold up against the euro.
for the gue/ngl group thank you, chairman. i think there is a lot of rhetoric about modernising social policy and helping the countries of central and eastern europe, but little concrete action. the new social policy has not been fully integrated into the european union's macroeconomy. the budget is too small and it does not go hand in hand with the enlargement of the european union. in its efforts to expand its sphere of influence, the european union often provides more aid to foreign countries than to the new member states. it is therefore no coincidence that, for example, most of the population in latvia is now living in a worse situation than before joining the european union. more than 90% of pensioners live on less than a subsistence income. unemployment in latvia has reached 20%, gdp has fallen by 19%, the national debt exceeds the annual budget, pensions have been reduced by 10%. people protest, leave latvia, declare indefinite hunger strike, offer to sell their internal organs to raise funds for family maintenance. suicides are on the rise. the european union's neoliberal social security policy needs to be changed. capitalism caused the crisis, but the workers and pensioners paid for the way out. the contribution of large capitalist transnational companies and banks to the solution of the problems created by the crisis is minimal. the european union allows the big bourgeoisie and the banks to be bailed out with the tax money of the state, that is, the people. eastern european countries want a more equal distribution of agricultural subsidies, as they are currently concentrated in the old member states, distorting the free labour market. the uneven approach to the calculation and payment of direct payments, the separation of these payments from the production of the products concerned, must be ended. the european commission, the european parliament must adopt democratically rules that protect not only the interests of big producers and bankers, but also those who suffer in the rich and democratic european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to put forward one more proposal, because relations are really frozen between the parliament and the authorities, but we do have relations with the opposition. my proposal is that i will propose to organise a conference, in latvia or somewhere else, at which there would be participants from the authorities and from the opposition. the themes of the conference would be, firstly: energy, security, economy, transit problems, which in belarus are very significant, as also for the eu; secondly: visa questions, neighbourhood questions regarding citizens; thirdly: the problems with the democratic situation, party problems and human rights; and fourthly: the real view from the belarus side – how they see the eastern partnership in the near future. at the end of the day, i believe that this is one of the ways in which we could bring about a thaw in the frozen situation that we really do have. it has to be a two-way street, because with a one-way street we will not succeed.
