in writing. – in light of the persisting gap between men and women in terms of employment rates, wages and access to management positions, i call on member states to speed up the implementation of directive 2002/73/ec, while ensuring that its provisions are fully and effectively transposed in the national legislation. with a financial crisis unfolding, i am concerned that a slow or low quality implementation of this directive is likely to exacerbate the gender inequalities, endanger the fulfilment of the lisbon strategy goals and prevent the eu from developing the full potential of its economic capacity. regrettable is also the choice of certain member states to limit the scope of the prohibited types of discrimination, thus only partially complying with the directive 2002/73/ec. it is disappointing that despite numerous studies on the subject, some national lawmakers are still neglecting the destructive effects of discrimination and sexual harassment on employee morale and productivity. to better implement anti-discrimination and harassment practices it is necessary to engage stakeholders at grass-roots level, through information campaigns, use of ngos, and also by more formal instruments such as including special provisions in collective agreements and national legislation relative to gender equality.
in writing. − we have just voted on an agreement for civil aviation safety. although travel by air is one of the safest means of travel, however, one can never take measures which are too safe. linked to this discussion is that related to security. since the horrendous terror attack on the twin towers, innumerable security measures have been put in place. just like the issue of safety one can never be too secure. indeed, it is when we feel too secure that terror strikes again. of course, one has to find a balance between civil liberties and rights and security measures; however, when it comes down to a choice one has to prioritise. for instance, there has been a substantial deal of opposition to the sharing of passenger lists on the basis of data protection. but surely such security measures will enable an in-depth analysis not possible at the frontiers. we are living in a new era. innocent civilians are purposely targeted and the civilians of certain countries preselected. in such an environment surely we are not expecting these countries to abstain from doing all that which is possible to protect the interests of its citizens.
in writing. – regarding the latter this is not the case of all commissioners and it is unfortunate that currently we are not in a position to publish data relating to other funds received. however, there is a general misconception on our revenues. firstly, to date all members of the european parliament receive the same salary as members of their national parliaments. this means that the maltese delegation in the ep receives an honorarium identical to that of mps to employ and run our office both in brussels and malta. perhaps it would be a good idea if commissioners and parliamentarians will have to fill audited financial statements on an annual basis, regarding all revenues received. these statements should be available to the public. i think that this suggestion may be the balance between the two important issues of data protection and transparency.
i also voted against the catania report because it contains at least three references to abortion as a human right. something i do not agree with and cannot accept. it is regrettable that such an important report covering so many subjects should include elements which are certainly beyond the competence of the european union, and which the european union cannot and should not interfere with, also because of the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore voted against the catania report.
mr president, today we have just voted on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. it is with great regret that, together with my two maltese colleagues in the pse group, we have had to abstain from voting on the report. although the report refers to numerous issues of fundamental human rights which are laudable, it includes other issues, such as abortion, which should never have been included in this report. as the maltese social representatives in the european parliament are against abortion, we have had to vote against these particular parts of the report. there are, indeed, other issues included in this report, such as living wills and the right to dignity at the end of life, which are sensitive issues, regarding which we have had to abstain. that is why we abstained at the end of this vote. i would like to thank you for this opportunity.
in writing. − one of the top security measures that have been agreed to is the issue of biometrics in passport and travel documents. of course this means a substantial expense running into millions of euros but one cannot compromise with security measures. on the other hand one has to take into consideration the earnings of our people, which vary from state to state. the issuing of an ordinary passport in malta incurs expenditure. who is going to pay for the change to biometric passports: the state, the individual or a shared arrangement? in the european parliament we have agreed today that those member states in which the inclusion of children on their parents’ documents had been allowed will be obliged to issue individual documents for the children at no additional cost other than material expenses. it would be pertinent for the government to take note of this as it has become a policy not to make referrals when irregular tariffs and taxes are collected by government, as has been the cases relating to the vat on registration and past payments on satellite dishes.
in writing. – i welcome this report for it seeks to harmonize and bring more clarity to the rules on general and business aviation on a community level. this is the fastest growing segment of civil aviation in europe and it provides numerous social and economic benefits to member states. however, to make the most of it, we need to establish the proper regulation. for example, currently there is a lack of reliable data on this sector and this deficiency must be quickly addressed for management, safety and security reasons. the commission should make a clear distinction between large-scale commercial aircraft operations and privately owned airplanes. the legislation should be proportional to the risks incurred by the different types of aviation and mindful in terms of the cost burden it places on them. the future regulation should be stimulating and enhancing the industry instead of limiting it. a cause for concern may be that most of the general and business aviation falls outside of the scope of the commission directive to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. considering the fast growth rate of the sector, i think there is a need to offset its environmental impact in one form or another.
in writing. – this report recognises that the violation of a child's dignity is a serious breach of human rights, as well as a despicable act, which unfortunately is not tackled uniformly throughout the eu. it is disturbing that some member states have not implemented all relevant international conventions for the protection of children. i urge the commission to use all tools at its disposal to pressure those states into compliance. to fight child pornography the eu should enforce tough legislation, but also undertake educational projects that inform people about this subject. existing technical solutions to protect children should be promoted among parents, in particular software tools that are easy to use and available for free or at a low-cost. low barriers of entry and minimal risk are making it very easy for criminal organizations to get into cyberspace. to face this new threat, we need to harmonize legislation, boost law enforcement and strengthen cooperation in police work. moreover, eu legislation would only partially solve the problem since this issue has a global dimension and therefore needs a global framework to enforce the law internationally. in that regard, i urge the eu to take the lead.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would like to thank, of course, mr claudio fava and the libe committee. the commission has already made a very important effort on both sides to reach an agreement at first reading, and given the large majorities in favour of this text in the libe committee a few days ago, and in coreper just before christmas, i think we will get there. of course, this text does not correspond in every respect to the original ambitions. the commission can nevertheless support this compromise without hesitation. this directive will enable us to put in place an effective instrument, a common framework, a deterrent, in the fight against the employment of workers from third countries who are staying illegally. the commission will be vigilant about inspections. it will be seen in the coming years, since the compromise text calls for qualitative and more targeted inspections, whether these qualitative criteria will be adopted and whether the obligation for member states to regularly identify the sectors at risk for illegal work in their territory will really be effective. we want this to be the case in order to combat the employment of illegally staying third-country nationals and, above all, to impose sanctions on employers who take advantage of these people. the examination of the implementation of the provisions on inspections will therefore be a priority for the commission in its future reports on the application of this directive. there are also positive elements to this compromise, including the consensus reached on the difficult question of subcontracting. i noted that mr fava wanted a statement from the council and parliament. i personally don't see the harm in it. the commission welcomes the fact that the directive provides for criminal sanctions in particularly serious cases where such sanctions are both necessary and appropriate. necessary to strengthen the deterrent mechanism because, in the most serious cases, administrative sanctions are not sufficient to deter unscrupulous employers. they are timely in an instrument that is intended to be at the level of an ambitious european policy to combat irregular immigration. in this context, the commission appreciates that the criminal charge against the employer of a victim of trafficking has been reintroduced in the final compromise text. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is a significant first step in the fight against illegal immigration. it targets unscrupulous employers' practices, while protecting migrant workers, who are most often victims in this case. this directive must be adopted and implemented swiftly. the commission will support and accompany this process by convening regular meetings of member states' experts during the transposition period, where appropriate to discuss problems that may arise. it is an important tool and the commission will do everything possible to ensure that it is used effectively. i thank parliament and claudio fava and the libe committee.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. other this law, madam president, is probably one of the first laws where we are directly tackling the phenomenon of illegal immigration with a legislative tool and therefore i say that this law has finally arrived. and there was a great need for this law and so i am very happy that we have managed to reach a very good compromise on this law. what exactly did we do in this law? what we did was we attacked one of the sources, the main source, that motivates people to resort to illegal immigration. we are attacking the attraction that leads to illegal immigration. we're attacking the incentive. and what's the incentive? the incentive is that a person who, for example, is in a country in africa, and who is thinking of risking his life to go to another country, does so because he imagines that he can find work, even illegally, in that country. from now on we are sending a clear message that illegal work is no longer tolerable and therefore it no longer makes sense for you to risk your life, crossing the sea, to go to europe where you will find work for yourself that will now absolutely no longer be possible. and as the previous speakers have said, it is also important that this is not a tool to regularize irregular situations, but to send a clear message that illegal employment cannot be tolerated any longer. we are doing this with effective measures and sanctions: financial, administrative and even criminal sanctions, which send a clear message even to employers that employing someone without permission is no longer tolerated. thank you very much.
in writing. − such agreements are vital in the process of strengthening the ties between the european union and the united states of america. with competition from the new emerging markets ever increasing, it is of the utmost importance to be on top of the situation, and i think that this report expresses this feeling exactly.
in writing. − when we talk about wilderness, in reality we are referring to a natural environment from which significant human activity has been absent, in other words, virgin areas. wilderness may refer to both land and sea. there are two different approaches: one refers to the concept of conservation and the other to that of preservation. these are distinct. the former can be described as ‘proper use of nature’, the latter ‘protection of nature from use’. i believe that conservation and preservation may be distinct, but their application depends on the particular area. to take an example, europe is too small to have forbidden areas for its citizens. forests cover about one third of the land area of which only 5 % can be described as wilderness. most areas in europe which are wilderness are protected under natura 2000. this is a european network which already covers the most valuable and bio-diverse areas of the eu. that is why i agree that no new legislation is required concerning wilderness areas as most are covered by natura 2000. it is however important to map wilderness areas according to forest, fresh water and marine wilderness.
in writing. − natura 2000 has done much to protect unspoilt or virgin environment. this report stresses the importance of such projects and i am in full agreement with the rapporteur that many resources must be used to ensure the protection of such areas. it is important to map these areas because it might be too late if we leave this too late.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur on the need to emphasise the importance of data-gathering, proportionate regulation, airport and airspace capacity, and environmental sustainability, whilst acknowledging the importance of one of the fastest-growing industries of our time. we call to strike a balance in these mentioned issues so as not to hinder the business and leave it sustainable.
in writing. − the public sector has been hampered by traditional methods in the procurement of research and development services. this can be altered through what is known as pre-commercial procurement. pre-commercial procurement is a special approach for the public sector to procure research and development. the eu needs a broader innovation strategy. and what we are terming pre-commercial procurement has to be seen as part of the strategy. this is essential to re-enforce the innovation capabilities of the union and to improve public services for european citizens. the us public sector spends usd 50 billion on research and development procurement. europe spends usd 2.5 billion. it is obvious why pre-commercial procurement is crucial to help the public sector in europe address major public challenges. one of the problems existing in the eu is lack of awareness how to optimise research and development procurement. the problem is a result of what is known as exclusive development. companies which have developed a product or service for a public body cannot use their findings for other customers. pre-commercial procurement will address this anomaly. it will allow a specific approach which involves risk benefit sharing. this will also result in cost-effective development of innovative solutions.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of innovation especially in demanding sectors such as health, ageing and security. pre-commercial procurement marginalises the room for error and should thus be used as an innovative means.
in writing. − first and foremost europe must devote its efforts to help its members in their quest for the search of oil and gas. there is a probability that malta has fossil-fuel reserves beneath its seabed. full exploitation cannot be carried out because of issues on the median line between malta and its northern african neighbours. this should not only be a bilateral issue but it is also in europe’s interest to seek a solution on behalf of its member state. the issue of nuclear energy has once again taken a prominent position. there are pros and cons. the nuclear debate is never-ending. one cannot fail to take note of the possibility of evaluating this energy supply. i am informed that malta was considering the importation of energy generated from nuclear plants in france. this energy, on reaching malta, would be in the form of electricity and the negative aspects associated with nuclear plants would not be an issue. the energy generated would be cheaper than that from a gas pipeline from sicily. malta would not have to undertake the capital expenditure needed to construct a power station.
in writing. − the three main objectives – security of supply and solidarity between member states; combating climate change: recalling the ‘three times 20’ objective for 2020 and the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 50% and 80% by 2050; and the economic growth of the eu: obtaining the best prices while avoiding price volatility – are of utmost importance when we discuss the european energy policy. we have to consider the policy that the decentralisation of energy sources will have, and new types of renewable energy should also be encouraged.
in writing. − it is a fact that in the lisbon strategy the concept of ‘work’ relates to formal gainful employment. the concept of ‘work’ has to be given a wider interpretation. there are activities carried out by both men and women which do not qualify as formal gainful employment, but one cannot deny that these activities constitute work. for instance, voluntary, domestic and family work are all different aspects of the concept but do not fall within the traditional definition of gainful employment. the definition of work to this day is too economic. many people of either gender care for dependents and yet, notwithstanding this, the input of such work is ignored by employment statisticians. in my opinion, domestic work is household production and should form a significant part in statistics relating to the economic output of a country. this, however, is not recognised when calculating the goods and services that make up the gdp of a country. the result is that women, who are responsible for the greater part of household production, are undervalued as regards their input. given the hours of work in household production, one must accept that this should be taken into account when computing the total production of a country.
i am glad to hear commissioner barrot say that he will also visit malta, and i assure commissioner barrot that the immigrants in the centres in malta will find them, for the simple reason that in malta you cannot pick up the immigrants and take them away or move them somewhere else - and this is part of the reason why the situation in countries is so difficult. mr president, last sunday a boat arrived with 260 immigrants on board. for the commissioner to understand, this is equivalent to 39,000 arriving in france or italy in one day. for minister vondra to understand, this is equivalent to 7,000 immigrants arriving in the czech republic in one day. more than 2,000 arrive in lampedusa during christmas! what is needed, then, in such a sensitive case, is not criticism of the authorities of the country, but solidarity to stop this influx and to lighten the burden.
in writing. − this is a report that shows the way forward and sends a clear message to all to take action now, before it is too late. we cannot take risks where the prevention of nature and humanity is concerned. we need an integrated police so as to avoid overlaps in work and we need to harmonize our aims and strategies. the european union should take the leading role in the battle against climate change and this report is a huge step towards that direction. the rights to life, security, health, education and environmental protection are fundamental and it is our duty to safeguard them for the generations to come. we are already aware of the huge damage that climate change is causing and we are duty bound to minimize this damage as much as possible.
in writing. − we have to be very careful when taking decisions like those proposed in this resolution. we cannot just open our arms and welcome everyone released from guantanamo. whilst assuring that the ex-detainees are treated with dignity we have to ensure that they are innocent beyond reasonable doubt before taking any decisions. any haphazard decisions may be fatal if we do not pay the utmost attention.
in writing. – i would like to draw attention to the fact that the economic crisis in the car industry in the maltese islands is being compounded because of a serious administrative blunder. cars in malta are subject to a heavy registration tax, on which the government was also collecting vat. it has now been established that the government was appropriating money from thousands of car owners which was not due. the government is refusing to reimburse thousands of vehicle owners who have paid substantial amounts when these were not due. the government of malta is claiming that reimbursement will amount to millions of euros. it is exactly because of this that the government has a duty and an obligation to return taxes irregularly imposed. this is such a serious blunder that if it happened in any other member state of the eu, the government would have been forced to resign. in malta the government has not even had the decency to accept responsibility and apologize to the thousands of maltese and gozitans who have been affected. solutions could be found by offering rebates to the owners of these vehicles on such issues as annual licences. it appears that the government is completely deaf to any such suggestions.
in writing. – it is a sad day when we have to acknowledge that every day more than 26 000 children under the age of five die around the world, mostly from preventable causes. it is tragic that many lives can be saved with the appropriate measures, be they medical or financial, and still the situation is aggravating. special attention has to be given to the most vulnerable and socially excluded girls and boys, including disabled children, migrant children and children from minorities. the report is commendable. i only disagree with those aspects which refer to abortion. the committee on development adopted this own-initiative report (drafted by glenys kinnock (pes, uk) on a special place of children in eu external action in response to the commission communication on the subject. the committee welcomed the communication and the four guiding principles of the commission’s action plan on children’s rights in external action, which include a holistic and coherent child-rights-based approach. without loosing any more time we must:(a) undertake a thorough analysis of children’s rights;(b) build up existing youth and children’s networks as sustainable platforms for consulting children;(c) ensure that international agreements between the eu and third countries should contain a legally binding clause on the protection of children’s rights.
in writing. – mental health is a key factor in people's lives and there is increasing evidence of its impact on our social, economic and legal systems. i support this report since it entails a comprehensive approach to the challenges we face in the mental health sector, such as combating stigma, discrimination and social exclusion, but also recognizing the need for preventive programs, public support and adequate treatment of people. as a relatively new science, mental health is not widely recognized as a priority, but recent technological developments have allowed us to explore more of the human brain, showing the way to new, life-changing treatments for individuals. i believe we should strongly support further research in this area, with special attention to the growing elderly population in europe, which is hoping for a healthy, dignified and active ageing. we need accessible structures for care and treatment of mental illnesses, but it is also very important to have a supportive environment such as labour market integration programmes. mental health is also very relevant in workplace settings where it can severely hamper performance, so we need to promote good practices among employers that reduce unnecessary stress and preserve the mental well-being of their employees.
madam president, i should like to explain that with regard to amendment 17, which should have come after amendment 45, both myself and my colleague next to me, mr grech, wanted to vote in favour of the demilitarisation of space, but unfortunately we were innocently distracted at that moment by a third party and we did not vote in this way.
in writing. − one of the most important weapons in the arsenal of the rights of european citizens is that of petition. we have adopted further measures of a procedural nature. - when a petition is signed by several persons, the signatories shall designate a representative and deputy representatives who shall be regarded as the petitioners for the purposes of implementation of the rules. - the withdrawal of support for the petition by the petitioner is being remedied. - it may be possible for petitions and correspondence with petitioners to be drafted in other languages used in member state (such as basque and galician). - the committee responsible must establish the admissibility or otherwise of the petition. at the request of only quarter of the members of the committee the petition becomes admissible. - alternative means of redress may be recommended. - petitions, once registered, shall as general rule become public documents.
in writing. − with regard to the motion for an ep resolution on a special place for children in the eu external action, i am in favour of the report as it refers to the rights of the most vulnerable in the society, namely children, but in line with this i do not agree with particular clauses which may condone abortion.
in writing. − with regard to the motion for a european parliament resolution on a special place for children in eu external action, our delegation is in favour of the report as it refers to the rights of the most vulnerable in society, namely children. although there was no direct reference to the promotion of abortion in the resolution, i want to make it clear that we do not support certain clauses which may condone abortion.
in writing. − one cannot underestimate the importance of paying special attention to the specific problems of fisheries and aquaculture. this is obvious in view of this sector's economic, social and political importance in the eu. in my country, malta, both fishing and aquaculture are given special attention. i fully concur with the committee on fisheries to recommend that, in the field of scientific marine research, priority be given not only to research to gain knowledge about the state of fish stocks but also to the commercial, economic and social aspects that determine fisheries management, since all these aspects are of crucial importance. we have to ensure that in the fields of fisheries and aquaculture, priority be given to applied research. it is unfortunate that in the short term a clear conflict of interests exists between fishermen and scientists. in the long-term, objectives will be more compatible. research has to be undertaken in view of dwindling stocks. this will result in the disappearance of whole species. that is why it is imperative to have full cooperation in this field between scientists, fishermen and aquacultural operators.
in writing. − today we voted on the report on reduced rates of vat. these amendments highlight that reduced vat rates would have a positive impact in reshaping many service sectors as they would reduce the level of undeclared work. with regard to the housing sector, it is possible to apply reduced vat rates to renovation and repair work aimed at increased energy savings and efficiency. the proposal goes back to the summer of 2008 and proposes the addition of certain other locally supplied services, including restaurant services. in addition to housing and restaurant catering services, labour-intensive services will be permanently included in the list of services eligible for reduced rates. the category is broadened to include other locally supplied services of similar nature such as: minor repairs of tangible movable goods, including bikes, shoes, clothes, computers, watches; cleaning and maintenance services for all these goods; domestic care services; all personal care services, including hairdressing, beauty services, gardening services; renovation and maintenance services provided for places of worship and cultural heritage and historical monuments. also, the category of pharmaceutical products is widened to cover all absorbent hygiene products, particularly children's nappies and medical equipment for the disabled. printed books, including audio-books, under current legislation may also be subject to reduced rates.
in writing. − the barcelona process was adopted by the heads of state and government at the summit for the mediterranean held in paris on july 13, 2008. it contributes towards peace and prosperity, and it will constitute a step towards economic and regional integration as well as ecological and climate cooperation between the mediterranean countries. since my country is a mediterranean state, such a process is viewed with great attention. i agree that opening up the process to countries not involved in the partnership increases the likelihood of establishing parity in relations between the european union and the mediterranean partner countries and of tackling the problems of the region in a comprehensive way. coming from the mediterranean archipelago of malta and gozo, i fully appreciate the contributions which the process can make. it is essential that the strategic value of euro-mediterranean relations and the barcelona process acquis be reaffirmed in the shape of regional and sub-regional programmes and common guidelines for bilateral cooperation. this has taken on an added importance in view of the recent issues in gaza and the declarations in cyprus.
in writing. − we have voted on the report of the european neighbourhood and partnership policy instrument and the following points have been made:- the mediterranean component of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument should complement the barcelona process, and the enp’s objectives need to be more clearly defined in order to strengthen the barcelona process by favouring a multilateral regional approach;- there should be enhanced eu involvement in the black sea region and an ambitious eastern partnership. there is also a need to accelerate the establishment of a free-trade zone in relation to armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, ukraine and moldova in particular, as soon as partner countries are ready;- an eastern neighbourhood assembly (‘euroeast’), with the participation of the european parliament, should be created on the same lines as the euromed and eurolat assemblies with a view to implementing the enpi in the countries of eastern europe, namely armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus. i believe that we have to tread carefully to take into consideration russia’s sensitivities on the immediate neighbours once we are seeing a new approach between the united states and russia.
the rapporteur is right to say that the common asylum policy must be based on the principles of solidarity. it is precisely solidarity that is missing from our common asylum policy as commissioner barrot will see in person later this week when he visits countries - in malta as well as on the island of lampedusa. mr commissioner, you will find that solidarity is sought and not found. solidarity was first introduced in the pact on immigration and asylum last october. it was introduced through a burden-sharing clause which was the first time it had been introduced and was good. this is a voluntary clause that allows asylum seekers who arrive in one country to move to another eu country. this parliament even allocates eur 5 million in this year's eu budget to enable this clause to be operated. so far in practice we have not seen this clause in operation except for one particular exception which is france which has offered to take 80 asylum seekers from malta. this is an important gesture but one that has not been copied by other eu countries and it is a great pity that it has not yet been done. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner what is the commission doing to see that this burden-sharing mechanism is operated? what are you doing to get more countries to show their solidarity and take in immigrants from a country that is suffering a disproportionate burden? will the commission create a european programme on the relocation of persons from one country to another and how does the commission intend to construct and operate this clause?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i thank mrs stauner for her report and the parliament for the constructive dialogue we have had since the commission committed itself to the action plan towards a positive discharge. in this context, the commission considers that the court of auditors' 2007 statement of assurance is the best one ever obtained. the action plan contributed to this improvement. i am pleased to inform you that the commission has moved up the adoption of its latest progress report to 3 february. as mrs stauner has asked in her report, this should enable you to take this into account in the discharge resolution. our communication of 3 february presents a first impact assessment of the action plan as at 31 december 2008. it concludes that considerable progress has been made during the term of office of the present commission. i will mention a few of them. as regards simplification, the proportion of the budget implemented according to clearer and easier to apply eligibility rules is increasing: 25% of the budget. as part of the economic recovery plan, we are proposing further simplification measures, particularly for the structural funds. the court of auditors has noted an improvement in the clarity and reliability of the annual activity reports of the commission departments drawn up under action 3. the commission reinforced financial corrections action 11 in the structural funds : in 2008, an amount of 1 500 million was recovered. by comparison, the amount recovered in 2007 was 288 million. the commission services are increasingly applying common standards for control methods to ensure better coordination and sharing of results. this helps to reduce the administrative burden and to make better use of the results of controls. we continue to strengthen the responsibility of member states in shared management action 5 and have just received the second annual audit summaries. the commission will continue these and other initiatives to improve the control framework. the stauner report stresses the key role of the concept of tolerable risk in pursuing future improvements. the concept is intended to define at political level the acceptable balance between the results and costs of controls. it is obvious that a zero error rate is not possible and it seems logical that the error rate may vary according to the field. the interinstitutional discussion on this concept is continuing on the basis of the recent commission communication, vice-president kallas having had the opportunity to speak to parliament on this in january. i would like to stress the importance of this initiative, which will enable the discharge authority to better assess the quality of the risk management put in place by the commission. our last report shows that the commission has completed the various actions. the court of auditors will make its own assessment of the impact of the various actions in its 2008 annual report. i thank mrs stauner for her report, which is an incentive to further improve our accounting framework.
in writing. – this report which aims to bring more transparency, efficiency and accountability to european spending, is more relevant than ever to implement the eu budget by following the principles of sound financial management. we need a genuine commitment to transparency and effective internal controls in order to extract maximum benefits from of our policies and priorities. moreover, i fully support the view that if an action cannot be satisfactorily implemented in terms of cost and risk, then it should be reconsidered. in the current economic situation we cannot allow any wasteful spending or misuse of european funds. at the same time the institution needs to have less complex legal requirements. it is necessary to simplify the administrative and financial burden on applicants and benefeciaries of the eu especially since many instances unnecessary bureaucracy has resulted in impediment to effective policy implementation. the challenging task is to find the right balance.
in writing. – i welcome the efforts of the commission in the field of competition policy, its effective challenging of cartels and the record fines that were imposed on offenders in 2006 and 2007. i fully support the commission conclusion that european energy markets are not functioning properly. in that regard, it is very disappointing that the european council has failed to resolve the issues identified by the commission in its sectoral analysis. energy costs represent a share of household budgets that is growing at an alarming rate, and with the effects of the financial crisis we are likely to see a substantial increase in poverty across the eu. it is unacceptable that energy market inefficiencies are distorting the market to the detriment of businesses and consumers. to address irrational energy pricing we should probably consider the creation of an independent energy regulators in all member states who would have the competancy to ensure that any increase in pricing levels of public utilities like energy and water, drainage, airport charges etc..., would have to be justified.
i voted in favour of this report because it places great emphasis on the importance of solidarity, that a common asylum policy should be built on solidarity. however, i would point out that there are certain parts of this report which are still paragraphs with which i cannot agree and which, if we had an individual vote on them, i would vote against. in particular, i would like to mention a policy on detention. i think we have to be very careful about the issue of the policy of detention of asylum seekers because it is not easy to say that detention should end once and for all. there are certain important circumstances in which it is important and remains important to maintain a policy of detention.
i voted in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution and abstained on the main motion. there is no doubt that integrity in the online gaming sector is very important. it is important to ensure that we fight criminal activity that may affect this sector. but this does not mean that we should turn to protectionism. we must remember that the freedom to provide services in the eu is a basic principle of the eu, a recognised principle, and therefore we must not indulge in protectionism. i would also like to remind you that the internet, since we are talking about online gaming, already provides many security measures on which to build, for example, obligations to register before playing or to detect possible fraudulent activity or even to identify the credit cards used. so yes to integrity, no to protectionism.
in writing. − we are in agreement with the main thrust of the compromise report and are therefore voting for it. having said that, however, we do not agree with certain clauses, such as those dealing with detention. i feel that they do not fully reflect and precisely interpret the complex and difficult situation of small member states like malta. malta is facing a disproportionate flow of illegal immigrants compared to its geographical limitations (121 sq. miles), small population (400 000 people) and other limited resources (administrative, financial, etc.), which should be taken into consideration when regulating, debating or legislating on this subject.
in writing. − this report highlights the importance of the free trade and fair competition principle and affirms the importance of what was signed in the treaty of rome. we must ensure effective anti-trust measures so that we will be protected against restrictive trade abuse.
in writing. − every initiative that supports smes or improves their conditions should be applauded, and this report has many valid arguments that will be of great value to smes throughout europe. we must capitalise on the major benefits of the current progress and ensure that we include the creation of a superior operational business environment for smes, including a more effective regulatory culture taking root across europe.
in writing. – guidelines were adopted as part of the renewed lisbon strategy in 2008 and shall remain valid until 2010. all member states including malta had to set out their strategies to deliver growth in jobs. employment guidelines were set out. financing the same is essential and the european social fund can finance immediate actions to be taken by member states with regard to both flexicurity and skills. flexicurity is an integrated policy approach that seeks to facilitate adaptability of workers and enterprises. secondly, we have to make a massive effort in improving the level of skills. this improvement has to take place at all levels of qualifications. firstly the improvement in skill levels will be useless unless it matches the needs of a labour market. secondly, priority has to be given to three strategies: - improving the adaptability of workers and enterprises;- attracting more people into employment and retaining more people in employment so as to increase the labour supply and to make social protection systems workable;- increasing investments in human capital through enhanced skills and better education.
in writing. – as the financial crisis is deepening with no end in sight, i think that more funds will be necessary in order to stabilize the european economy and stop the downward spiral. other bottelneck which are the spiralling rate of unemployment and enormous insecurity in the labour market. non availibility of credit together with the increase in the public deficit is still a major problem and is a key factor if we really want to successfully and effectively tackle economic recession. it is very important that adequate credit supply is re-established and that money should be used as an economic stimulus i.e. to flow to families and companies. it is necessary to create incentives to attract capital investment. unfortunately at the moment there is no european mechanism or institution capable of coordinating an integrated continental recovery and therefore we are reapplying patchwork solutions that may fail as a whole, since member states' economies are highly interdependent. the european recovery efforts must go hand in hand with regulatory changes to avoid repeating the mistakes that brought us into the crisis. lack of regulation and poor supervision have been at the root of the porblem and we need to re-establish effective regulations.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural resources is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. this initiative is capable of bringing about a substantial increase in the price of freight transport when transporting to and from these peripheral regions, which increase can be translated into higher prices of products entering and leaving these regions or countries. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − malta is one of the main eu states with a substantial tonnage on its register books. on the other hand, it discharges its obligations as a flag state, in accordance with international conventions. the thee main obligations are to: (a) apply the provisions of the flag state code; (b) take the necessary measures for an independent auditing of their administration at least once every five years, in accordance with the rules of the imo; (c) take the necessary measures with regard to the inspection and survey of ships and the issue of statutory certificates and exemption certificates as provided for by the international conventions. a new requirement is that, prior to allowing the operation of a ship which has been granted the right to fly its flag, the member state concerned shall take the appropriate measures to ensure that the ship in question complies with the applicable international rules and regulations and, in particular, the safety records of the ship.
in writing. − i fully concur that among the impacts of the economic crisis, the rise of poverty in the eu is the greatest concern. it is essential to halt the current rise in unemployment in the eu. i believe that the most efficient way of reducing and preventing poverty is through a strategy based on the goals of full employment, high quality jobs, social inclusion, measures to encourage entrepreneurship and activities to boost the role of smes and investments. in a nutshell, this is the most important part of the preamble to the resolution. if we fail to stem the rise of poverty in the eu as a result of the existing exceptional circumstances, then the eu will have failed to address the most important issue stemming from this economic and financial calamity.
in writing. − i agree that the eu maintains a leading role in international climate policy. however, unless it speaks with one voice, this will result in loss of credibility. the eu as a whole appears to be on track regarding targets for climate change, but all countries including malta have to be careful not to lag behind, as this will affect the credibility of the union. limiting global average temperature increases is necessary not only in the developed world, but also in the countries which are developing. needless to say, such actions will strain financial resources. the eu has to provide a plan which will address relevant areas and sources of financing.
in writing. − the initiative to launch the recovery plan is a reaction to the serious ongoing economic downturn. the top priority of the recovery plan must be to stimulate the economy and competitiveness of the eu, and to avoid increased unemployment. members insist that all financial aid must be timely, targeted and temporary. the present exceptional circumstances have to be seen within the wider context of a firm commitment to bringing normal budget discipline back on track as soon as the economy recovers. in addition, the recovery plan must also serve the purpose of delivering a fair international agreement to give poorer countries the opportunity to escape poverty without fuelling global warming, by helping to finance massive investment. finally, coordinated action between member states must be directed at reducing uncertainty in the credit markets and facilitating the functioning of those markets.
in writing. – this is one of the most important issues which needs to be addressed. the european population doesn't feel that they are european citizens. the concept of citizenship of the eu is still unclear whilst the citizenship of the individual nationality remains predominant. most citizens do not feel part of the process and they view the european union as an institution apart. positive reconnecting includes enhanced dialogue between the citizens and the european institutions, the need to ratify the lisbon treaty, the importance of a consultation process and joint open debates. a year ago in april 2008 we came up with the idea "debate europe" which gives an opportunity to break the often artificial divide between national and european issues. at the end of the day, however, the citizens of europe must have a clear idea of the direction which the european process is to take. there are two approaches which cannot continue to exist in parallel. a choice has to be made. are we for a fully integrated union or are we for a fine running of the present status quo. when citizens see their governments wavering from one to the other, who can blame them if they feel alien to the process itself?
in writing. − one of the most difficult challenges facing the european union is that of illegal or irregular immigration. i have always believed that solutions can only be proposed if both sides see each other as partners. concentrating on the plight of migrants traversing the mediterranean, europe and the north african states (maghreb) have to work in unity. malta since the 1970's has continuously campaigned for this approach, but at the time the majority of european leaders did not have the necessary foresight. now that we are facing an exodus of biblical proportions europe has suddenly been startled into reality.
in writing. − among the most important tools of the european union are the structural funds. one of the most difficult areas to understand is how to access these funds in the fields of regional policy. indeed, the title includes the word ‘obstacles’ which can be condensed into seven items: - excessive bureaucracy;- too many complex regulations; - frequent modification, by certain member states, of eligibility criteria and requisite documentation;- lack of transparency in decision-making processes and co-financing schemes;- delays in payments, cumbersome centrally managed administration in member states;- inadequate decentralised administrative capacity;- different models of regional administration in member states which prevent the existence of comparative data and the exchange of best practices.
in writing. − although malta and gozo are territorially the smallest eu state they have control over extensive air space. i think it is important to address the performance and sustainability of the aviation system. the idea, as the committee on transport and tourism pointed out, is that the most effective and most efficient way of creating a single european sky is by means of a top-down approach. however, as it has never been possible to secure political approval for such an approach, the aim must now be to speed up the processes initiated on the basis of the bottom-up approach. we must ensure that the planned reform of eurocontrol should take place before the entry into force of this regulation. also, efforts should be made to create the single sky in alignment with the development phase of sesar (the single european sky atm research programme).
in writing. − the mid-term review of the financial framework 2007-2013 is not practical or realistic because of the lack of certainty linked to: the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon; the end of the current parliamentary term; the outcome of the european elections; and the setting-up of the new commission in the current economic context. i can fully concur that an ambitious review of the budget should be an urgent priority for the new parliament and commission.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this report especially since it promotes in a very forceful and concrete way the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, age or sexual orientation. having said that however my delegation feels that national realities and national concerns in the various member states have to be taken into consideration (amendment 28) before implementing the amendment. furthermore we have to ensure that legislation enacted would not lead to a perverse situation where, instead of ensuring freedom of expression, freedom of expression is curbed.
in writing. − i am taking this opportunity to fully support this report which is being proposed so as to further health protection of eu citizens but i'd also like to take this opportunity to say that in malta and gozo certain areas of the basic health system are in shambles. the waiting lists of maltese and gozitans in need of medical tests and surgical interventions are unbelievable. 2 per cent of the population is waiting for cataract operations. the waiting list saga is one of many examples supporting my statement. others include lack of beds in what is supposed to be a state of art hospital costing nearly a billion euro.
in writing. − in principle we are in favour of this report, however certain clauses (e.g. introducing into school curricula classes taught to migrants in their native language) do not reflect the realities of certain member states, especially in respect of influx of immigrants, financial and administrative capabilities, size of country population and many other factors.
in writing. – energy costs are growing at an alarming rate, contributing to a substantial increase in energy-related poverty across the eu. however, the market price of energy is only one side of the problem. there is a significant, additional financial burden on consumers due to energy market inefficiencies and distortions. for example, in malta consumers and businesses saw an exorbitant increase in their energy bills when the price of oil was at its high, but there was no decrease even when the price of oil dropped more than half. what we need is an eu-wide policy to protect consumers and smes from pricing malpractices carried out by public utility companies. one solution may be a national independent regulator which would create the necessary checks and balances against any abusive or non transparent conduct by private traders and/or government owned entities in respect of any price increases on public utilities like gas, electricity, water, airport charges and others. this should be implemented through improving the existing e.u. legislation and directives involving consumer protection especially to ensure :- better standard of transparency and rationality governing price increases as well as better access and information regarding consumer rights. - less costs and less bureaucracy for the consumer who has a genuine case in order to seek redress.
in writing. – i would like to draw my attention to the environmental situation of marsaxloqq bay. the most picturesque bay in malta was destroyed when a power station was built. this has had a health impact on the residents in its region especially those of marsaxloqq. now an incineration plant is being planned in this bay and once again the inhabitants of this region are going to be subject to environmental nightmare. in addition, there is a health hazard which cannot be estimated. when i was the lawyer in a case trying to prevent the construction of a power station in the bay i was able to prove that discharges were not all being absorbed by the atmosphere. some discharges were found too heavy to evaporate and would find themselves falling in the vicinity of the station. tiles in open places were visibly stained by a rust-coloured substance. it resulted that those stains were a result of discharges. what is the situation going to be when increased discharges from the incineration plant will be allowed into the atmosphere?
the rapporteur. - if i had to reduce my report to two sentences, i would say that, firstly, the european parliament is strongly in favour of a common immigration policy, and secondly that parliament does not want a fragmented immigration policy, but a coherent policy, because it is a coherent policy that is effective. i say this more and more in the light of the recent case, which we have seen in recent days, of the pinar ship which rescued 154 immigrants in international waters. this case further illustrates the need for a common policy. in fact, this case also shows us the price we are paying, precisely because we do not have a strong common policy. what is the price? the price is that everyone is shifting responsibility and pointing fingers at others, without, however, reaching a solution and, at the same time, we have people drowning and dying every day in front of our eyes. it is shameful that a country of 60 million people tries to throw the responsibility of its law on a country of less than half a million people. i hope that this was just an isolated case where an italian minister from the northern league was playing for the gallery a few weeks before the european parliament election. political gimmicks are commonplace but not acceptable. i would like to salute the constructive spirit shown by the prime minister of malta and the italian prime minister with their intervention to unlock the situation of the pinar vessel case. thanks to their intervention, reason has triumphed over the theatres. common sense has won over intransigence, and respect for the law has won over the law of the jungle. i hope that, from this pinar incident, everyone understands that, while it is easy to shift responsibility onto others and point fingers, the easy way does not lead to a solution. it is the path of a truly common european policy that leads to a solution, however difficult it may be. the main points of my report, i would say, are six: first, that the ongoing human tragedy of illegal immigration must be brought to an end once and for all; second, that the burden-sharing mechanism contained in the immigration pact should be implemented immediately and should be turned into a binding legal instrument; third, greater emphasis should be placed on the return of migrants who have no right to remain on european territory; fourth, that any agreement with a third country which the european union concludes should also cover the area of immigration; fifth, that the frontex agency should be strengthened, not only financially, but more importantly in its means; and finally, that we must step up our fight against organised crime. in conclusion, we have managed to reach a compromise on several points in the report. unfortunately, there was one point left to be included because of the majority of the socialist group on the right to vote for immigrants. something that was not acceptable to me. in view of this, i have tabled an alternative resolution to the report, to replace the reference to the right to vote with a compromise which has a different wording.
a short note, explaining our votes, of the group of the european people's party, on my report on a common immigration policy. there were two votes, one on the alternative motion, and the other on the report itself. we voted in favour of the alternative motion so that we could remove a paragraph introduced by the socialist bloc in this house, which provides for the right to vote for immigrants - something we do not agree with, something we voted against even at committee stage. however, it is unfortunate that this motion did not pass because it would have removed this paragraph. instead we voted in favour of the full report because we think it is a good report which sums up a clear programme of the european parliament's position on the area of the common immigration policy.
in writing. − on behalf of myself and my colleague, louis grech, i would like to say that although we voted in favour of the report we would like to stress the following points: we support a common immigration policy;we believe that in the national interest the immigration pact was not satisfactory;we note disappointment because the report does not make a direct and clear reference to mandatory/compulsory burden sharing;we note that any cooperation is appreciated; but the eu cannot interfere in what type of bilateral agreements are reached between a country of origin and a transit country;we do not agree with voting rights for illegal immigrants because of malta’s demographic situation;we do not agree with a uniform schengen visa system instead of national systems if this increases bureaucracy and the system becomes less flexible.
i am honoured to have worked on these two areas we have spoken about, and i am very grateful to the rapporteurs and to everyone who has helped us to get to the position we have today. first of all we must defend those workers who unfortunately lost their jobs because of this crisis, and i think it is easier today to help these workers get back into the world of work. another area we have agreed on here tonight is to give our best to create more jobs in europe. we create more work, not by, as the socialists want, restricting the 'overtime' time that workers have to do, but on the contrary, let the workers decide for themselves, we should not be the politicians who dictate the 'overtime' time but it should be the worker who decides to do it. so yes, after commissioner almunia tells us that there will be a jobs crisis in the euro area, we must do our utmost as a european parliament to create more and better jobs for all european workers.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the aim of the legislative proposals on which you are about to give your opinion is to establish a genuine common asylum system, one which is more protective, more efficient and more supportive. i would like to thank the five rapporteurs for their considerable and excellent work. this is the first time that parliament has spoken as a co-legislator on asylum. i must say, a fruitful cooperation has just begun. i am pleased to note that parliament largely supports the aims of the commission's proposals. this support is essential if some of the shortcomings of the legislative instruments of the first phase are to be addressed. at that time, they were adopted after simple consultation of parliament. i would, however, like to comment on some of the proposed amendments which raise certain concerns and deserve special attention. i turn first to nicolae popa. as regards eurodac, i agree with his proposals in general. i then turn to antonio masip hidalgo on access to reception facilities. i will accept an amendment on the sensitive question of the equivalence between the material support offered to asylum seekers and the basic social assistance guaranteed to nationals. however, for the commission, a reference indicator must remain. this indicator will not oblige member states to provide social assistance to asylum seekers, but it will make it possible to introduce clear rules to preserve the dignity of asylum seekers and thus help us and the commission to monitor the application of common standards in each member state. the same applies to the principle of equality with nationals in terms of access to health care for people with special needs. i can accept the amendment here too, but i would also like to see a reference indicator retained, because the commission's proposal is aimed at addressing the current shortcomings in the protection of the health of vulnerable people. that's for the reception conditions. i would like to thank mr antonio masip hidalgo again for his excellent presentation. i now turn to the dublin regulation. i also thank jeanine hennis-plasschaert for her very good report on the revision of the dublin regulation. i would like to stress one point which is very important to me: family reunification, and then the problem of unaccompanied minors. the dublin system has often been criticised for the negative impact it can have on asylum seekers, especially when it comes to families or vulnerable people. in its proposal, the commission wanted to ensure that in practice families are not separated and minors are not transferred, except to join their families. amendments which alter this approach cannot receive our support. i would like to stress the issue of solidarity which is the subject of some of the amendments proposed in the context of the dublin regulation. i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mrs hennis plasschaert, and also parliament for introducing the possibility of suspending the transfer of asylum seekers when a member state is in difficulty. but it is difficult to go further in the context of the dublin regulation, because this regulation, madam president, cannot be an instrument as such for allocating asylum seekers between member states. i have listened to your call for solidarity and the commission can accept an amendment in the preamble to the regulation, to give a political signal for the creation of improved and formal solidarity mechanisms. i am determined to propose concrete instruments in the future to increase solidarity at union level and to alleviate the pressure on the asylum systems of certain member states. the result will be a more equitable distribution of beneficiaries of international protection among member states. the union has already allowed the european refugee fund to support pilot projects in this field. and once operational, the support office will be able to provide support to member states who request it through experts. but you have pointed to the problem of greater solidarity, greater coherence between the various member states. i'm going to the support desk now. i would like to thank mrs dührkop and mrs lambert for their excellent, prompt and effective work, since the commission tabled its proposals on 18 february. in this case i really need parliament's support for the rapid establishment of the bureau and i am pleased to note that the proposal for the amendment on the european refugee fund is approved. some aspects of the support office's file call for some comments. the question of solidarity is obviously at the heart of parliament's concerns, as it is mine. i note the draft amendment requesting that the bureau support the implementation of a mandatory allocation mechanism for beneficiaries of international protection. the commission proposal reflects the text of the immigration and asylum pact, which provides for a voluntary regime. but as i said in a previous reply, if the commission is working on a more coordinated mechanism, the solution will not be easy. the bureau, meanwhile, will support internal redistribution mechanisms as defined elsewhere, whatever their nature. the provisions of the regulation establishing the bureau are not the place to legislate on the founding principles of these mechanisms but, again, as with the dublin regulation, the commission will accept an amendment in the preamble. the commission also considers that the mandate of the external affairs office should not be limited to resettlement activities and regional protection programmes. the amendments should not restrict the mandate of the support office. there are amendments which seek to radically change the procedure for appointing the future bureau director. watch your step! the procedure proposed by these amendments could significantly delay the appointment of the director. we need to set up the office effectively and quickly. the commission's proposed formula is the horizontal formula currently used for 20 first pillar regulatory agencies. we would regret to depart from a harmonised formula when horizontal thinking is being carried out within the interinstitutional group on agencies, in which parliament is involved. i'm wrapping this up. i have already been a little long, but the work of parliament requires me to give him a precise answer. some have criticised the proposals for dublin and the reception conditions as being too generous. we are told: "but this europe of asylum, it will be a factor of attraction for unfounded asylum applications". others, of course, have invoked the principle of subsidiarity. frankly, i do not share these criticisms. only a genuine harmonisation of asylum systems at european level around clear standards of fairness and efficiency will enable europe to realise its commitment to protect those who really need it, while avoiding the diversion facilitated by ambiguous standards and their very uneven implementation. experience shows that in member states where asylum applications are dealt with with a great deal of objectivity and seriousness, this has not created - far from it - an appeal effect. i believe that there is no conflict between fighting abuse of procedure and raising the standard of protection. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament for its commitment as a co-legislator on the sensitive issue of asylum. i say this very simply, but it is true, even in the presence of the presidency. the problem is that we really need the european parliament to get this asylum policy accepted, a policy which is in line with our european values and which can sometimes cause fear and criticism, even though it is all part of the humanitarian spirit and tradition of our continent. i therefore thank all the members very warmly, mr president, and in particular the five rapporteurs for their excellent work.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, this new phase of our work, intended to establish a common european asylum system, will require a substantial effort on the part of both parliament and the council. the council fully endorses the need to achieve further harmonisation in the field of asylum. the european council, when adopting the european pact on immigration and asylum, welcomed the progress made in the area of asylum to date but, equally, recognised that important disparities remained between member states concerning the grant of protection and the form that protection takes. the european council, while reiterating that the grant of protection and refugee status is the responsibility of each member state, also indicated that the time has come to take new initiatives to complete the establishment of a common european asylum system provided for in the hague programme, and thus to offer a higher degree of protection, as proposed by the commission in its policy plan on asylum. the council therefore welcomes the four important legislative proposals which the commission tabled between december and february 2009 for this purpose and which represent the focal point of our debate today. these proposals deal with reception conditions for applicants for international protection, the so-called dublin regulation, and eurodac, which were all presented in december last year, as well as the proposal for establishing a european asylum support office, presented in february this year. these proposals have already been subject to intensive discussions within the council bodies within the short period since they were presented. the nature of the proposals and the complexity of the issues they deal with mean that the examination is not yet complete at all levels of the council. i cannot, therefore, indicate a firm position on the part of the council in relation to the amendments which parliament is proposing in the draft reports. all i can say is that the council will look closely at all elements of parliament’s report with a view to making progress on these important measures in the shortest possible time frame. i would, in particular, hope that we can make early progress on two proposals whose scope is more limited. these are the proposals directed to the establishment of the european asylum support office and the amendment of the eurodac regulation. these are also, consequently, the proposals on which discussion within the council bodies is most advanced and on which it is already possible to say that there is a significant degree of convergence between the views of the council and parliament. the establishment of the european asylum support office will facilitate the exchange of information, analysis and experience among member states and will help to further develop practical cooperation between the administrations in charge of examining asylum applications. it will also use the shared knowledge of countries of origin to help to bring national practices, procedures and, consequently, decisions into line with one another. both the council and parliament favour the establishment of such an office. the presidency believes that the proposal can, and should, be the subject of an early agreement between parliament and the council on a basis acceptable to both institutions. as the honourable members know, this proposal is accompanied by a proposal for modifying the european refugee fund. since its purpose is to ensure its financing of the support office, both instruments should be adopted at the same time. the council also hopes that an early agreement could be possible concerning the eurodac regulation, since only some technical improvements are being proposed by the commission, and these should contribute to a better functioning of the system. the discussions which have taken place until now in the framework of the council concerning the other two proposals – the amendments to the reception conditions directive and the so-called dublin regulation – indicate that the issues raised by those proposals are undoubtedly more complex and difficult. the commission proposals in relation to the reception conditions directive, as the honourable members know, are intended to amend the existing directive with a view to addressing the deficiencies identified by the commission during recent years. the commission considers that the margin of discretion left to member states by the directive in force is too great, and that this has undermined the objective of ensuring adequate reception conditions for asylum seekers in all member states. that is why the commission has proposed a number of amendments concerning such matters as access to employment by asylum applicants, enhanced material reception conditions, better addressing of the needs of vulnerable persons and recourse to detention. the dublin regulation, that is, the regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application, is intended to prevent abuse of asylum procedures in the form of multiple applications submitted by the same person in several member states. the commission is now proposing a number of amendments aimed at increasing the efficiency of the current system and also in order to ensure better protection standards for asylum applicants. the proposal also contains a mechanism for suspending transfers in cases when a member state is experiencing particular pressure on its asylum system which does not allow it to offer asylum seekers adequate standards of protection and reception conditions. the detailed examination of the commission’s proposals on reception and dublin is ongoing in the council. the council has yet to define its position on a number of the issues dealt with in the two proposals, and a discussion is still ongoing on certain key issues. these include the question of access to employment and detention in the context of the reception conditions directive, and how best to respond to the needs of member states facing particular pressure in the context of the dublin regulation. it is already clear to the presidency that more work will be necessary at the level of the council in order to achieve the necessary level of agreement among member states on these proposals, which would enable it to engage in discussions with parliament with a view to an agreement between the two institutions. that, of course, remains our aim, and parliament can be assured that the council will fully take into account the views of parliament as represented by amendments proposed in the relevant draft reports. both the council and parliament are committed to the establishment of a common european asylum system which offers a high level of protection and functions effectively. we are, therefore, faced with an important challenge in finding the right solutions which will enable us to achieve that objective. i am confident that the will is there on the part of both the council and parliament to make that possible and, against this background, the council will now undertake a detailed examination of parliament’s proposals on all four of these instruments.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on budgets. - as my colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert, whom i welcome and applaud, has rightly said, this package of laws is built on the principle of solidarity. solidarity with those who deserve protection but also, and for the first time, solidarity with those countries that are bearing a disproportionate burden. this solidarity is being introduced in line with the commission's proposal to suspend the dublin regulation in respect of countries with a disproportionate burden and also with the european parliament's proposal to introduce a burden-sharing mechanism that is no longer voluntary but legally binding on all. however, our work for solidarity is being undermined by what is happening outside, and people cannot understand how we are talking about solidarity here, while outside everyone is trying to shift responsibility onto others. at the moment, as we speak, a serious incident is taking place between malta and italy, the third of its kind in a few days. two boats on their way to lampedusa with 130 migrants on board are currently just a few miles outside lampedusa but italy is refusing to come to their rescue. under international law they must be taken at the nearest port and as vice-president barrot said in the first incident, the nearest port in this case is the port of lampedusa. mr president, the behaviour of italy, or rather the behaviour of italian minister maroni, is illegal in the face of international law, it is overbearing towards malta and it is also inhuman towards the migrants involved. this is certainly not a good thing for italy, and this situation, mr president, is also serious because it sends the dangerous message that you should not save the migrants because if you do, you will have to keep them. this is a very dangerous message. i therefore turn to the vice-president of the european commission, jacques barrot, and ask him to intervene immediately to defuse the situation. we also ask to insist with italy to honour its international obligations and we also ask to insist with all the member countries of the european union and make it clear to them that this is not simply a matter between malta and italy, but it is everyone's responsibility and therefore it is a responsibility that must be borne by everyone. mr president, if we do not put solidarity into practice we will be betraying the trust between us, and we will be betraying the trust of the people in europe. if we really believe in solidarity, we must not let national egoism win. everyone needs to do their part. thank you.
i would also like to congratulate prime minister reinfeld for staying with us to the end of this discussion. three important priorities that we will look to the presidency for implementation. firstly, the stockholm programme on the area of freedom, justice and security. we want to see this programme agreed as soon as possible. the second is the implementation of the immigration and asylum pact. we will be watching you, mr prime minister, to see that this pact, which was agreed last year, is implemented. thirdly, the pilot project on burden sharing in the field of immigration agreed at the european council last month. you have a lot of work to do mr prime minister, mr president and we will be watching you closely to see that this work is done.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? migration issues are a constant theme in the eu's work. an important part of the management of migration flows is related to border control activities. the free movement of persons within the eu and the absence of internal border controls imply a shared responsibility and increased demands for the proper and efficient management of our external borders. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders frontex is responsible for coordinating and supporting member states' efforts to monitor and control the eu's external borders. frontex is an important part of the eu's integrated border management strategy. since its launch in 2005, its capacity has been gradually expanded. with an increased budget, frontex is now playing an increasingly important role in leading operational cooperation between member states in the control of the eu's external borders. the agency is currently coordinating a number of joint operations and pilot projects at sea, land and air borders to combat illegal immigration, with a particular focus on certain high-risk areas such as the eu's southern sea borders. the northern and eastern borders are also covered. we have stressed on several occasions in the council the need to develop and strengthen frontex. the 2008 council conclusions set out the political priorities for the further development of the agency. in the short term, it is stressed that the necessary resources must be allocated to frontex and that the equipment provided by the member states in the framework of the centralised register of technical equipment, crate, is used to the maximum extent possible. the council also called on frontex to promote cooperation with other border control authorities, including customs, and with third countries on border control. in the long term, it is stressed that the further development of frontex activities should continue to be phased in. the council welcomed the commission's intention to examine how the mandate of frontex could be extended to allow for increased cooperation with third countries. an evaluation of the frontex regulation is currently underway and in early 2010 the commission will present proposals for possible amendments. the council looks forward to taking a position with the european parliament on the changes proposed by the commission. the european pact on immigration and asylum adopted by the european council in october 2008 also stressed the need to strengthen the agency's role and resources for cooperation. the pact also referred to the possibility of setting up special units within frontex, given the very different situations, for example at the land border in the east and the sea border in the south. in the light of events in the mediterranean, the european council also stressed in its conclusions of june 2009 the need to step up efforts to prevent and combat illegal immigration and to prevent future human tragedies at the southern sea border of the eu. the need for reinforced border control operations, clear rules of operation for joint patrolling and rescue landings, and increased use of joint return flights was particularly stressed. in conclusion, let me say and make it clear that the situation in the mediterranean is not just about taking measures in the area of border controls. this situation requires a wide range of both short-term and long-term measures. the starting point should be the eu's global approach to migration, which includes cooperation and action across the entire migration policy area. enhanced cooperation with countries of origin and transit is essential and dialogue with third countries should be intensified in areas such as legal immigration, migration and development, capacity building and the return of persons in need of protection. such dialogue must be based on the principle of solidarity and shared responsibility.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, migration is a top priority which will occupy the house a great deal, and i would like to thank mr billström, who is well aware of this problem. we are building an immigration policy based on three pillars: respect for the right to asylum, the fight against irregular immigration and european coordination to organise legal migration. access to the territory of the union must be granted according to certain rules, in compliance with national policies, with common standards that the union sets up and not in an irregular way, often at the cost of human lives. the mediterranean must remain the link between our civilizations rather than a place of misery and desolation. the solution to the challenge of irregular immigration cannot be provided only by the member states most exposed because their borders coincide with the external border of the union. it is essential that all the member states of the union should feel united in the face of this challenge. the union has already adopted common standards, devoted resources to them and developed important means of action. however, given the scale of irregular migration flows, new initiatives will be needed. the challenge of irregular migration requires, of course, an effective prevention strategy, in partnership with all countries along migration routes. the european union is working to develop these dialogues and cooperation. this comprehensive approach aims to address all the essential dimensions of migration together in a balanced way. as tobias billström has just said, it guides our action in the mediterranean, which is the point of convergence of migratory flows from different regions and passing through different countries in asia and africa. the commission has been determined to promote appropriate bilateral regional cooperation frameworks. in the face of the proliferation of unacceptable human tragedies, i went to these doors of europe: lampedusa, malta, the canary islands, greece. i have provoked a debate within the commission and i have put to my fellow ministers in the council suggestions for a more solidary and effective european policy. on the basis of the work that followed, the european council in june took a series of decisions. since then, the commission has worked on three main lines. first, asylum: the european council calls for the coordination of voluntary measures concerning the internal distribution of beneficiaries of international protection in the member states most exposed to these pressures. the commission responded to this call by launching a pilot project for malta in july. it has provided community funding for member states who would like to show solidarity with malta. to date, france has agreed to resettle nearly 100 refugees on its territory. i would like, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, for this gesture to be followed by other member states. on 2 september i also presented a communication to the european parliament and the council proposing a joint european programme for the resettlement of refugees from third countries. i know, dear tobias billström, that this programme is very important to you. it sets out common annual resettlement priorities, together with proposals for more efficient use of the financial assistance granted to member states under the european refugee fund. the european asylum support office must be able to play a leading role in the effective implementation of these initiatives. the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission for its establishment is currently being examined by the community institutions. i would very much like parliament and the council to agree under the swedish presidency to make this support office operational in 2010 and i am counting heavily on our commission and the swedish presidency. that's for the asylum. the second area of work is the external borders. as the minister has very well said, the european council wanted to strengthen the border control operations coordinated by frontex. he asked us to establish clear rules of engagement for joint patrols, precise arrangements for the disembarkation of rescued persons and the organisation of joint return flights. we must also look at how frontex can cooperate with third countries. the budget for financing frontex operations in 2009 has been increased to €36 million and we are looking at how frontex can organise the return of irregular migrants. it should be recalled that border surveillance operations are conducted in accordance with community law, in particular the schengen borders code. fundamental rights and the prohibition of refoulement must be respected. in maritime areas, these operations must also be carried out in compliance with international maritime law. however, these rules are not interpreted or applied uniformly by the member states. we will therefore try to see how these rules can be developed and clarified in order to allow for better application of community and international law in the context of these operations. we are also preparing a proposal to amend the regulation establishing frontex and its working methods. this proposal will be presented at the beginning of 2010. it shall take into account the report of the european parliament and the evaluation of the agency in accordance with article 33 of the frontex regulation. the intention is to optimise and strengthen the role of frontex in border cooperation. i'm coming to the third axis. the european council stressed the need to strengthen cooperation with the main countries of origin and transit and asked the commission to examine practical possibilities for cooperation with these countries. in response to this request, the commission has been committed to intensifying dialogue and cooperation with libya and turkey, which are the two key countries on irregular migration routes in the mediterranean. as regards libya, mr billström and i sent a letter in july to our libyan partners proposing cooperation in a number of areas to achieve a joint and balanced management of migration flows from libya. we have explained to the libyan authorities that we are ready to assist them in strengthening their capacity to prevent irregular migrants from entering and leaving their territory, but also to improve the treatment of migrants in accordance with human rights and international standards and to facilitate the identification and assistance of migrants in need of international protection. the commission is already co-financing pilot actions through the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the international organisation for migration and the italian ministry of the interior. however, we can only take action on the scale that is appropriate with a clear commitment from the libyan authorities. i do not conceal from you, mr minister, that i am looking forward to the reply to our letter. as regards turkey, the director-general of dg justice, security and freedom, jonathan faull, is on a mission to ankara today to explore to what extent and how enhanced cooperation could foster greater commitment by the turkish authorities to a more responsible management of migration, both for the readmission of illegal migrants and, above all, for the international protection of refugees. if turkey and libya are willing to accept our offers, we could, with minister billström, visit these two countries before the end of the year. finally, i would like to mention the stockholm programme, which must lay the foundations for a more effective common policy, which will enable us to promote concerted immigration in the spirit of the european pact on immigration and asylum. we presented our proposals last june and they were welcomed at the informal ministerial debate organised by the swedish presidency in july. i do not repeat what i said earlier, namely the three main pillars of this policy, a common asylum system in line with our humanitarian traditions, more effective control of irregular immigration through more integrated management of our internal borders, our visa policy, and then, of course, a strengthening of the effectiveness of our fight against human trafficking and the establishment of a determined return policy aimed at the sustainable reintegration of migrants into their communities of origin, as well as an opening up to legal migration in a framework that takes into account the needs of the host countries without forgetting the needs of the countries of origin and the respect of the rights of migrants. i have been a little long, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, but i wanted to emphasize, following what minister billström has very well said, the main lines of a european policy and strategy which, i believe, is now beginning to take shape. it is still necessary for our member states to show all the solidarity and determination necessary to implement this strategy. i am counting very much on the european parliament to help us in this.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you mr president, i greet minister billström, i also greet in particular the vice-president of the european commission jacques barrot and allow me to congratulate and thank the vice-president of the european commission for his great and genuine work in the field of immigration and asylum. i would like to acknowledge, express my appreciation and congratulate mr barrot on the passion with which he has embarked on his work and the concrete initiatives he has taken in a very difficult, controversial and sensitive area. and that brings me to the first point i wanted to make; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to the question, which is the complexity of this subject, mr president. it is easy to blame one country or the other but it is important to look at this situation with a serious and deep analysis, otherwise we risk falling into the trap of the absurd. let me give you an example. recently there has been criticism for example against the italian government for immediately sending back migrants to libya. it is important to understand, however, that it is precisely because of italy's action that the number of migrants making the dangerous journey at the risk of their lives has fallen sharply this year. it is important to realise that this return will deal a major blow to organised crime and human traffickers. in other words, while the right of asylum for migrants is undoubtedly important, our fight to put an end to the tragedy in the mediterranean once and for all is equally important. just as important is our fight against human traffickers who are taking advantage of the misery and hardship faced by migrants wishing to come to europe. so the complexity of this subject, it is important not to lose sight of it. i would like to mention other points; for example, it is important to strengthen borders and it is important to strengthen them in particular for possible cooperation that can take place between countries, such as concrete return initiatives, involving more than one country. unfortunately, we have not yet seen enough of frontex's work in this field. the initiatives mentioned by vice-president barrot, such as the general resettlement programme, the pilot project for a country like malta, and the establishment of the asylum office, are also important. these are initiatives we need today before tomorrow, and to conclude, just as important is the cooperation of libya. libya and other third countries from which these people come. without this cooperation we cannot succeed.
in writing. – i welcome this debate, which brings attention to the fragmented and inconsistent eu policies on border control, immigration and asylum seekers. i am glad to hear that the council and commission recognize these as priority issues, but so far we have seen only half-measures to address them and no meaningful results. it seems that there is a lack of political will on an eu level to provide adequate resources to tackle these issues in a fair manner. for the moment, member states with external borders are carrying most of the burden and their situation is worsening by the day due to a lack of resources and capacity. some good proposals have been discussed lately, such as the revision of the fronex mandate, an eu-wide refugee resettlement scheme and the creation of a european asylum support office. i urge the commission to act quickly on their implementation. we need more solutions based on a burden-sharing approach as it is the only adequate response. the commission and council must show more resolve in providing the necessary funding for frontex. to protect effectively our borders, it should have its own equipment and assets, and operate on year round basis.
in writing. − as a result of judgments by the court of justice in the open skies cases the commission allowed for the replacement of bilateral agreements that had been entered into between some member states and third countries with community agreements. the commission has therefore negotiated an agreement that will replace the bilateral agreements between mongolia and certain eu member states.
in writing. − when romania and bulgaria entered the eu it was specified in their act of accession that a protocol would have to be drawn up amending the agreement on maritime transport between the eu and its member states and china. this vote is in favour of the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. − in january 2009 a storm took place in south-west france causing severe damage and enabling france to apply for funds from the european union solidarity fund. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of these funds.
in writing. − this concerns the revision of traditional own resources, vat and gni and provides for adjustments with reference to economic forecasts. the proposal is extremely technical, so i shall simply declare that my vote has been favourable to this proposal.
in writing. − during january 2009 the south-west of france was hit by a storm which caused severe damage and therefore allows france access to funds in the eusf. i am in favour of following the point of view of the rapporteur in accepting the proposed draft amending budget 7/2009.
in writing. − this report concerned modifications in the budget creating fresh commitments amounting to eur 51 640 000. these funds will go to the fighting of bluetongue, creation of a high flux reactor in addition to funds directed to europol and olaf. my vote here is consistent with the opinion of the rapporteur.
madam president, mr barroso, we have spoken a lot about the financial and economic challenges of today, but i would like to focus a little on citizens' rights and on a citizens' europe. we talk about european citizenship, citizens' rights, freedom of movement, the fight against crime, strengthening security, the fight against terrorism, a common immigration policy. these are all things that also affect the citizen, there are economic and financial issues, but there are also these challenges that affect the citizen in his daily life and that it is good to address. we have a programme, we have the programme on the creation of a european area of justice, freedom and security. we also had the tampere programme, the hague programme and now the stockholm programme. i think it is important to put new energy into this area. the stockholm programme will give us a new opportunity, we also have the treaty of lisbon which will give new and important powers and a much, much greater role to this parliament in this area and we heard from you, mr president barroso, that there will be two commissioners and no longer one working in this area. we have heard that there will be a commissioner responsible for home affairs and immigration and another commissioner responsible for justice and human rights and civil liberties. i call for a partnership; a strong partnership between the commission and parliament for a europe that is truly a europe of the citizen, a europe that protects the rights of the citizen; to protect the freedoms of the citizen, to protect the security of the citizen. i think that together, yes, we can work for a europe of the citizens and i wish you well for tomorrow's election.
mr president, one of the most popular topics at least on the news about the g20 summit is undoubtedly the issue of 'bonuses'. there is no doubt that this is popular, but we must understand that the problem is more complex. it must also be said that if they pose a risk to the financial system, they should certainly be checked. however, it should also be noted that there were large external trade imbalances between the countries that led to this crisis as well as other internal fiscal imbalances. something you have to see, it's about work. we know that work takes its "leg" between a year or a little less, to reflect what has happened before in gdp. and so when we look at work it's good that the fiscal stimulus, the packages that have been given, continue to be given until you see positive change. the commission shall see to it that it is not inconsistent and shall request a deficit reduction before it is made.
in writing. − this report refers to the proposal for a council regulation which derogates from the single cmo regulation with regard to the intervention periods for butter and skimmed-milk powder. due to the fact that there is a serious crisis in the dairy sector i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this is a proposal that amends the direct support schemes for farmers that are currently in place. due to the fact that i am in agreement on the need for such amendments i have voted in favour.
in writing. − tajikistan occupies an important geographical position since it is situated at a key intersection between europe and asia and therefore plays an important role in enhancing the stability of the region. i have voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to identify a number of important issues that should be addressed in tajikistan.
in writing. − the past 12 months have seen the deterioration of the dairy market with prices of milk falling below 21 cents per litre and leaving many farmers with no alternative but to sell dairy products at a loss. this is an extremely serious situation and therefore i have voted in favour of this resolution.
i also welcome the result of the referendum in ireland and i would like to make this point, who is following us from home says: "now how will this result affect me? the and i would like to give concrete examples of how this outcome will affect the citizens who are following us from their homes, using examples in the field that i follow, justice and home affairs. the charter of human rights it is a charter of human rights that we should be proud of as citizens of the european union and not just as citizens of our country of origin. our civil rights, as citizens, will be strengthened by this treaty, including in areas such as the protection of private data about us. our security, because the european union will strengthen its fight against terrorism and crime thanks to this treaty. our legal rights, if we have a case, a case of international adoption or of maintenance with international implications, a legal case the court where we have a treaty that will further strengthen our legal rights. and immigration our interests in such a sensitive area where this treaty will reinforce for example the concept of solidarity between us all. in other words, the treaty affects the citizen in a concrete way. why is that? because it will give more powers to this parliament and this parliament will see to it that these powers are used responsibly but at the same time enthusiastically to use them in the interests of the citizen. we, as representatives of the citizen, must be on the side of the citizen in all this.
yes, this is a historic moment, and not because the irish accepted this treaty with a really strong vote, but even today we have a declaration from poland that poland will now ratify this treaty too. a treaty that has had a very long journey. i have only been here for five years, but there are members, including my colleague méndez de vigo, who have been working for a long time to achieve this historic moment that we are facing. a historic moment that now places responsibilities on us politicians and even on the president of the czech republic. his personal opinion is important, but then we cannot leave an entire country and the whole european union hostage because we have a personal opinion of a politician. we politicians have a great responsibility, we have to answer to, and answer only to, the citizens of the european union, because we are, after all, representing them. europe is facing major challenges. we have the financial crisis, climate change, the problem of immigrants, how we will create more jobs in europe, and so the personal opinion of the president of the czech republic cannot stop europe from continuing to work towards the levels we are working towards. and i agree with those who spoke before me that the commission should be appointed. we have the president and i do not think we should wait for the outcome of the constitutional court of the czech republic to have the commission set up. we have urgent work to do and the commission should start working immediately to get this work done.
in writing. – the hague programme addresses the case of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal matters. this is important when a cross-border criminal activity takes place. four eu member states tabled specific proposals with the aim of preventing and settling conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. the issue relates to when the same person or persons are subject to criminal proceedings in different member states in respect of the same facts. this may lead to the infringement of the judicial principle ne bis in idem (a person cannot be tried again if he has been already tried). the measures proposed are commendable and consist of: - a procedure for establishing contacts between the competent authorities of the member states. this will confirm or otherwise the existence of parallel criminal proceedings;- rules governing the exchange of information between the authorities of the member states conducting such criminal proceedings; - avoiding adverse consequences by reaching consensus between the member states.
i do not think that anyone following this debate would be wrong in thinking that this is not the european parliament, but the italian parliament. but this is not the italian parliament and therefore it is not the appropriate place for this debate which is essentially a national political debate. we all know that the italian prime minister has a colourful personality, but that is not the issue here. the question here is whether we as a european institution have the competence to decide on these matters. and the answer is clear - the answer given by commissioner reding today, when he told us that this is not a matter of european competence and that we should not pretend to play a role that is not ours. and because this is not our competence, it is a matter that should be discussed and decided at national level. if we claim powers we do not have, and if we interfere in matters that are not within our competence, we are undermining and not strengthening our legitimacy. we are undermining the institution we represent and we are widening rather than narrowing the gap between us and the citizens. if we want to win the respect of citizens, we must start by respecting the limits of our competence.
i come from malta and so as you can imagine italy, for countries, is a neighbouring country that we have been following for a number of years now. in terms of freedom of expression, even countries look to italy because italy is a clear example of democracy. and so i think that to go into the internal issue, because that is what the italian socialists want, i think that this is a shameful policy on their country that i thought the italians would never come to this parliament to attack their country in such an unfair way. i think, then, i understand better why italians have not trusted the "left" in italy in government for more than a few months. because when you look at the politics of this party, it's a politics that only does honor to those who want to attack democracy itself. so i think they must have heard from the italian president, whom i hereby greet, who told them that this debate is not in this parliament but is a debate that should be held in the italian parliament.
much of the work of this parliament and other governments in this field is done as 'fire-fighting' when a problem arises. other preventive work is done, such as looking at the climate. but when it comes to underdevelopment we must also look at prevention. many of the problems of immigration are not political but economic, especially in the mediterranean, and so we must help to prevent this problem from growing.
in writing. − in april 2009 an earthquake occurred in italy that caused a great deal of damage. it is for this reason that the commission proposed the mobilisation of the esf in favour of italy. the events that took place in italy were tragic indeed. i am therefore in agreement that the mobilisation of the esf is justified and have voted in favour.
in writing. − in a further globalised world and a situation in which there exist 27 member states in the eu the possibility of there being some conflict in jurisdiction is great and could cause difficulty hence i have voted in the affirmative.
in writing. − the g-20 summit that was held in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september was successful in various areas such as discussing the need to address the root causes of the financial crises so as to ensure that such events do not recur in the future. i am in agreement with this and have hence voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − despite the fact that developing countries were certainly not the cause of the crises it is certainly true that they have been most adversely and disproportionately affected by it. this is why i have voted in favour of this resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, a common point in the debate we had last month on this resolution was that we should debate freedom of expression everywhere, throughout europe and beyond europe, but we should not be crusading, mr president, against an individual country. and the italian issue in this resolution is essentially a national political debate and we, as the european parliament, should refrain from intervening in a national political debate. if we leave italy in the title of this resolution, we would be surrendering ourselves to a kind of superior court, which we are not, and would in fact be undermining the authority and respect of our institution. we are in favour of freedom of expression in europe and beyond europe, and therefore call on all those who are truly in favour of freedom of expression everywhere to vote for a change in the title of this resolution.
in recent weeks there have been a number of incidents of a violent nature in the holy city of jerusalem, in the al aqsa area. both sides are pitting each other for blame, for who is bullying whom, and for who is causing the violence. as is often the case in this region, one incident can explode into a crisis. in fact, let us not forget that the latest palestinian intifada began after the al-aqsa incident. in such a situation i believe we should look at our duties as a european parliament. we have a duty to take a clear stand against any unilateral measures and to see that any violations and breaches of international law are immediately punished. experience has taught us that in such situations we should not keep silent.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i shall try to respond to the concerns expressed by mr coelho in his report. the evaluation mechanism is a key measure to preserve the integrity of the schengen area and to maintain mutual trust between member states. the commission therefore proposes to involve member states' experts fully in the scheduling of visits, on-site visits, drafting of evaluation reports and monitoring. of course, the commission is convinced that parliament should be involved in the evaluation of schengen, which is not the case at present. citizens must be able to know the results of these evaluations. this is why the commission has proposed to submit annual reports to parliament indicating the conclusions drawn from each evaluation and the progress of the corrective measures. so that's a first answer. it is true that mr coelho raised the question of codecision for parliament. the treaties in force do not allow this. however, if co-decision is not yet in place, the proposals will make the current mechanism community-wide. they make it more efficient in relation to programming, visits to sites and monitoring of evaluations. and the role of the commission as guardian of the treaties will be strengthened. but, mr coelho, this reinforcement is strongly contested by the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the schengen acquis. the commission considered that article 66 tec, which provides for consultation of the european parliament, was the correct legal basis for the first pillar proposal. this legal basis was chosen as the correct legal basis for the current schengen evaluation mechanism when the schengen acquis was integrated into the framework of the european union by the so-called decomposition decision taken in 1999. articles 30 and 31 of the treaty were chosen as the legal basis for the third pillar proposal. that is why two different articles had to be used for the assessment of the first and third pillars. the commission, on the basis of the treaties in force and the legal debates which have followed, must maintain its proposals. it must be said, mr coelho, that given the difficult negotiations in the council on strengthening the role of the commission, it is not likely that the negotiations will be successful in the short term. we can hope, especially today, that this treaty of lisbon will be ratified, and at that time, indeed, the matter will be reopened and the commission will decide, in due course, what it considers to be the most appropriate legal basis for the proposed mechanism, involving the european parliament to the greatest possible extent. of course, at that time the commission may present amended proposals or new proposals as appropriate. as you know, i am very much in favour of this provision, which will allow your parliament to act as a co-legislator in most jls cases. of course, i can only support a much more active involvement of parliament. but i think that, in the present state of affairs, we had no choice but to propose this amendment on the current legal basis. however, as i said, the discussions in the council are not easy, not because we do not want to involve the member states, but because the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaties, feels that it is also its responsibility to manage this whole evaluation mechanism, involving the member states and, of course, parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. other the creation of the schengen area was certainly a great step forward for many countries of the european union, because the schengen area brought, in a more realistic way, the concept of full freedom of movement of our citizens, where almost every citizen feels that when travelling within the entire schengen area, he feels that he is travelling as if he were in his own country. but we all know that to make this ambitious project a success it took a lot of work and a lot of sacrifice, above all, when we removed the controls and opened the doors to each other, we had to trust each other on something as delicate as the protection of our external borders. you trust me and i trust you with the protection of our external borders. i agree with my colleague carlos coelho that these reports are therefore intended to improve the evaluation mechanism for this important schengen area project, which is based on mutual trust. but we also agree that this evaluation must be carried out, it must be efficient and it must be transparent, but it must also involve parliament and give it its full powers, especially when today we are, capable of being, only a few weeks away from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i have no doubt that the commission will understand us when we say that if we are getting so close to the lisbon treaty we expect such proposals to fully respect all the powers that the european parliament will have under this treaty.
the rapporteur. − despite the cold we have in this room, we will now talk about countries with a much warmer, much more ideal temperature. these reports actually consist of an agreement providing for a short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the citizens, citizens of the european union and citizens of six different countries the republic of mauritius, the republic of seychelles, barbados, the federation of saint kitts and nevis, the bahamas as well as antigua and barbuda. this exemption applies to eu citizens travelling to these countries and vice versa when citizens of these countries travel to the countries of the european union and applies for a maximum period of three months within a period of six months. the exemption covers all categories of persons i.e. ordinary citizens but also diplomats travelling for different purposes. this includes in particular the many, many tourists who are citizens of the european union who visit these six countries for holidays and we will therefore make it much, much easier for them to be able to visit these countries. however, this agreement excludes in particular those travelling for work, for remuneration. in the reports, with the aim of safeguarding equal treatment of all citizens of the european union and also solidarity, we included the provision that each of these third countries can either suspend or terminate this agreement in respect of all the countries of the european union and not with any individual. the european union may also suspend or terminate the agreement on behalf of all the member states of the european union. the european union or any of these countries may suspend this agreement or parts thereof for reasons of public interest, protection of national security, protection of public health, illegal immigration or in the event of a country reintroducing the visa requirement. first of all, i want to make it clear, madam president, that before we voted on these reports at committee stage, we asked for and obtained a guarantee from the european commission that there should be full reciprocity. this was an essential principle for us; full reciprocity on the part of these countries to lift the visa requirement at the same time that we lift the visa requirement for them. we take away theirs and they take away theirs for us too. this agreement has been well done and once again shows how the european union is able to negotiate with one voice at international level and in solidarity with all countries and once again, and here it is, it also shows how the european union is able to open the doors of all its citizens in the world.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i should first like to thank mrs vergiat and tell her that these are valid passports - you are absolutely right - and then to say that we do indeed want to continue this openness as far as possible. i think that mr coelho has also rightly stressed, following mr busuttil, that we must be very strict about reciprocity and that we must also have real european solidarity, that we must not leave a member state at the mercy of a resumption of visas. this is a real solidarity of all the member states and the union. i would like to thank mr busuttil again for having clearly identified the problem and for having given us parliament's support.
the rapporteur . − i simply thank everyone who spoke, my colleagues but also in particular the vice-president of the european commission, jacques barrot, and what i had to re-examine the political message of this institution, of course, is the principle of reciprocity. this is important for us, it is important in this agreement before us as it is important in the case of agreements with other third countries. the vice-president of the commission is aware that there are a number of other third countries which are still not respecting the principle of reciprocity vis-à-vis all member states of the european union. the united states is an example of this, having recently added a number of additional countries to the visa waiver programme but keeping a number of countries out, and brazil has been negotiating with it recently. i hope that wherever this type of agreement is made, the principle of reciprocity is insisted upon and i think that these are the kind of agreements that can serve as a basis for this.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i do not wish to abuse parliament's patience, but i still need to give the members present and the parliament a number of clarifications. when i took up the portfolio of commissioner responsible for justice, freedom and security a year and a half ago, i found on my desk two large-scale it projects designed to equip the member states with modern and effective cooperation tools. the two projects, sis ii and vis, were the subject of a single contract, signed in 2003, between the commission and a consortium of it companies. both projects are technologically complex. a central system and national equipment must be interconnected and interacted with particularly demanding specifications. i have always tried to keep parliament informed of these developments. after the justice and home affairs councils in february and june 2009, i wrote to gérard deprez, chair of the parliament's civil liberties committee, to inform him of the progress of work on the sis ii project. i have sent you, mr coelho, a copy of these letters, because you are the usual rapporteur for matters relating to the sis dossier and you follow these dossiers closely. i would like to give you as much information as possible in the spirit of transparency. it is true that, like most large industrial projects, these two projects, sis ii and vis, are liable to be delayed or to suffer budgetary setbacks. it is true that the situation is not satisfactory for sis ii or vis. despite the efforts of experts from the commission and the member states, the sis ii project continues to face various obstacles. the vis project has entered an important phase. the initial specifications made it difficult to pass the planned tests, but it seems that with the agreement of the member states, the revision of these specifications should allow the tests to be completed in the near future. i'm going to start with sis ii. in close cooperation with the presidency, the member states and the contractors, the commission is implementing the guidelines set out in the conclusions of the justice and home affairs council of 4 and 5 june. first, all parties involved are actively involved in the technical preparations for a first test called 'technical milestone' which aims to ensure that the current technical solution is based on sound foundations. with this in mind, the commission negotiated with the consortium in charge of the project the necessary contractual adjustments. for the first milestone, this first milestone, this results in an additional 1 026 000 euro. at the same time, our services have strengthened the governance and monitoring of the project. they've been using the contractual penalties to increase the pressure on the contractor. i called and met with the president and chief executive officer of the company in charge of the project on friday evening to be personally informed of the measures they were taking to resolve the technical difficulties. finally, as a precaution, as envisaged by the june council, the commission has started preparations for a possible switch to the alternative scenario in the event that the current technical solution fails. in order to take account of these data and the new timetable, we must of course translate this reality into legislation. that is why the commission proposed amendments to the sis ii migration instruments on 29 september, amendments on which your parliament is currently being consulted. this will give us an opportunity to go back into the matter in detail. as regards the vis project, at the level of the central system, the contractor started in april 2009 a testing campaign necessary to assess the progress made. the contractor has not yet succeeded in meeting all the contractual criteria required to conclude this test campaign, despite the additional time granted to it. the commission has of course activated the contractual penalties provided for to punish this delay. it has issued a notice to the contractor to implement all appropriate corrective measures. i don't think so, but i may be denied, that there's a design flaw. on the other hand, it seems that the tse is on the right track. testing should be completed by november 11. but at the same time, member states also need to adapt their own national systems to be able to use the vis. however, at least three member states are experiencing major difficulties, and the delays from these three member states are even greater than the delays known at the level of the central system. so we are now carrying out a detailed analysis with the member states to define a new timetable for the start of the vis. but we need to have a clear view of the outcome of the central system test campaign. the meeting i had on friday makes me think that november 11th could be the date when we know if the tests in progress are positive. but in any case, both the national and the central systems must be fully operational to get the system started. i shall of course keep parliament informed of this new timetable as soon as we can agree to it. in conclusion, i have been a little long, forgive me, but i really wanted to give a detailed report on the progress of the sis ii and vis projects. the reasons for concern are real, there is no need to hide it. the technical, budgetary and political risk profile of both projects justifies the mobilisation of each, given their respective responsibilities. a considerable amount of money has been raised. the total amount of the commission's budgetary commitments for the sis ii project is just over 80 million, of which just over half, i.e. 44.5 million, has been actually disbursed to date. the total amount already committed by the commission on the vis project to date is approximately 74.5 million. in terms of budget implementation, almost 43.3 million has been actually spent to date. these figures are in line with similar scale projects developed in europe and elsewhere in the world. madam president, i really want to say here that i will keep parliament informed of any developments which may have a budgetary impact or impact on the date of delivery of these systems. but if we succeed with vis and sis ii, we will have given europe the best system in the world. so the obstacles must be faced with calm, lucidity and pragmatism, and i would like to ask parliament for all the help i need to follow these two cases very closely and see that they are resolved.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to start by expressing my appreciation for the explanation just given by the vice-president of the european commission and i would also like to explain why we have asked for this debate. we have asked for this debate because the schengen area is very important to us and is very important for the freedom of movement of citizens. but in the schengen area, while we want full freedom for citizens, we do not want full freedom for criminals either. that is why we have the schengen information system, which we are supposed to replace with a new generation known as sis ii, to help us actually strengthen the freedom of citizens while restricting criminals from any freedom. and so, when a system like this, the new generation of a system like this, sis ii, has been this long that it should be completed and it is not yet ready, and it seems to have started well to be completed, these are things that obviously concern us and that is why we are sitting here to ask these questions to know why this delay, to know if it is possible to give a guarantee of when this system will actually start to work properly, but i would like to make it clear that the importance, our ultimate goal is also clear, our ultimate goal is that we work together with the european commission so that the schengen area works and works in the best interest of the citizen, without in any way giving anything to those who do not have good intentions.
in writing. − irena was officially established on 26 january 2009. the purpose of this organisation is to become the headquarters for promoting a rapid transition towards the use of sustainable energy. the statute of this organisation has been concluded. it is vital that this organisation starts to function as quickly as possible. i am in favour of the adoption of the statute that has been presented and hence voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − due to the vast quantity of european legislation, it becomes essential that any defunct material is efficiently repealed. in view of this, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − laboratory tests must be carried out in order to identify harmful organisms that are not present within the eu. the regulations currently in place do not allow for certain laboratories to which such work can be delegated to take on this work due to the fact that they fall short of article 2(1)(g)(ii) of directive 2000/29/ec. i am in favour of allowing such laboratories to conduct this kind of work so long as certain conditions are complied with. therefore i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the government of malta should follow similar initiatives for the island of gozo. all eu member states which have island regions have applied for similar measures and have been given the opportunity by the eu to take such special measures. the measures themselves differ from island region to island region. they have however one thing in common: that is to provide economic comfort to balance the negative aspects of island regions. the island of gozo suffers from severe handicaps including double insularity, remoteness, small size and difficult topography. countries much larger than malta, such as portugal, italy and greece, have been able to obtain special measures so as to provide attractive incentives to island regions. the smaller islands of the maltese archipelago are particularly vulnerable. the island of gozo needs the assistance through the introduction of similar special measures. it is the duty of the maltese government to identify which special measures would be best suited and, subsequently, to apply to the eu to adopt such measures. it is up to the government of malta to reduce the hardships especially prevalent in the island of gozo.
in writing. − this is an extension of the 2002 tax derogation given to portugal in respect of certain autonomous regions. i am in favour of such extension and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this consists of a simple codification of texts without any change to their substance. i am in favour of such codification and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this is once again a codification without any alteration of substance, of which i am in favour, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this consists of a simple codification of already existing texts and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this concerns the codification of legislation concerning the protection of workers from exposure to asbestos. i am in favour of such codification and have hence voted in favour.
in writing. i voted, as did the majority of my colleagues, for greater transparency and clarity in community regulation. in adopting this resolution, the european parliament confirmed the european commission's intention to 'clean up' the texts by codifying the regulations on the protection of workers against asbestos. this resolution will make it possible to apply these rules more effectively, which are necessary for workers.
in writing. − this concerns the codification of legislation concerning veterinary checks on animals entering the eu, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this is a codification without any substantial changes and therefore i have voted in favour.
in writing. i voted, as did the majority of my colleagues, for greater transparency and clarity in the regulation on agricultural accounting information networks on farm incomes and farm economy in order to improve the regulation and, above all, to make the text more readable.
in writing. − this report consists of a simple codification of legislation on animal health conditions in the sphere of intra-community trade. i am in favour of such codification and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this is a codification without any substantial change and therefore i have voted in favour.
in writing. − this provides for visa-free travel between mauritius and member states of the eu. i am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this provides for visa-free travel between the seychelles and member states of the eu. i am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this provides for visa-free travel between barbados and member states of the eu. i am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this provides for visa-free travel between the bahamas and member states of the eu. i am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this report is in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i agree that the mobilisation of this fund is necessary in this case and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following redundancies in germany. i fully agree with the mobilisation of this fund, it is necessary in this case and i voted in favour of this report, as did the majority of my colleagues. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the mechanisms available to the european union to help unemployed workers following redundancies resulting from the negative effects of globalisation. i believe that the case of the employees of nokia gmbh, the german region of bochum, justifies european aid, as was already the case previously for portugal.
in writing. − siwiec was accused of insulting the religious beliefs of others during an event that took place a number of years ago. after reviewing the facts of the case i believe that immunity should certainly not be waived. this is also the view of the rapporteur and therefore i have voted in favour of the report.
president of the commission. − i have said earlier that my number one concern is unemployment, but to fight unemployment we should not only have a reactive position but a proactive position. this, i think, could be achieved through the revision of the lisbon strategy and an integrated vision for 2020. we have to base the european union’s long-term strategy on new sources of sustainable growth, for instance, what we call ‘white’ jobs, in social services, where there have been 3.3 million new jobs since 2000. that is 16% of all new jobs. the market for green products and services is also set to double by 2020, creating huge opportunities for green jobs, so we are promoting a mapping exercise across the european union to anticipate the jobs and the skills needed. i am therefore determined to work in this new strategy to reinforce the social priority, as i already said to you when we discussed the broader political guidelines for the next mandate.
president of the commission. − whenever there is non-compliance with our directives by member states we launch infringement proceedings, so when there is a specific case we can and will act. regarding the overall issue you mention, let me tell you that this crisis has made more than five million europeans unemployed. the most affected categories are young people and migrants. unemployment now stands at 9.1% in the european union, but that unemployment rate is more than double in young workers (19.8%) and migrants (19.1%). these are the most important concerns we now have in terms of social matters. the issue of tackling child poverty also remains a very important priority. we are also, of course, following the situation as regards older people, in accordance with the current directives.
i think it is good to talk about how we will create more jobs in the european union. but i think we should also talk about how we are going to save jobs from being lost. the government of countries that intervened at the moment we had a crisis is being hurt the most. i think that with government intervention, obviously with more spending in the social field, but i think that thousands of jobs have been saved in countries. do you not think that the commission should do more to make this happen in every country of the european union? i know that you will mention the globalisation fund which has been reorganised and is now affecting many more workers, but i think we should do our utmost to ensure that as many workers as possible do not use the globalisation fund because they have their jobs guaranteed. i think that should be our real target.
in writing. – following the adoption of budget 2010 and in light of the positive developments in ireland concerning the lisbon treaty, i believe that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the budgetary procedure aiming to improve the process as a whole and make it more efficient, relevant and visible to european citizens; in this regard, i believe that a key goal of the revision must be to enhance transparency in decision making and during the implementation phase. for that purpose, we should consider the introduction of uniform control standards and statistical mechanisms across member states to get higher quality feedback on the budget delivery results. furthermore, the budgetary procedure should incorporate a better balance between long-term stability and flexibility to respond to changing needs, while preserving the principle of subsidiary by providing clear advantages and added value in comparison to national budgets. there are also certain policy areas that need to be developed further. europe is facing today significant challenges due to the financial crisis, climate change, energy supply, security and immigration. i appreciate the efforts of the commission in addressing them, but i think we need a stronger, more coordinated and holistic approach in order to be effective.
in writing. − the notion of there being any form of breach of the right to information in italy is erroneous. firstly it is not the case that the european parliament should be used as the forum in which to discuss matters that should remain within the internal competence of the domestic courts and parliaments of member states. in addition it is clear that the recent criticism of italy was only initiated in an effort to attack the italian premier silvio berlusconi. hence i have voted against the resolution.
it is worrying that our frequent contacts with local authorities, at least within countries, confirm that many of them are still in the dark about what to expect when this directive comes into force. in general, there is little knowledge of the existing law on the four freedoms. there also seems to be a lack of information on all the laws and regulations concerning financial services, electronic communications services and transport services. it also appears that there may be problems for the authorities to simplify the administrative process and to harmonise the rules of trade and other licences. the commission should therefore take further initiatives to provide immediate and direct assistance to local and regional authorities. it is also essential that the european parliament remains involved in the process, even after the directive is implemented, if we really want implementation to effectively reflect what has been agreed in parliament.
in writing. − due to the fact that parliament has yet to conclude its examination of the microfinance facility, it is not yet clear whether the funds that should be made available to this facility might originate from progress. for this reason it is crucial that the commission refrains from allocating funds currently found within progress. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − an eu-russia summit will take place on 18 november 2009. in recent years the european union and russia have developed a strong relationship. there are, however, certain areas that require reinforcement. i am of the opinion that the resolution in question tackles these areas well and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − alzheimer’s disease and other neurodegenerative diseases affect an incredible number of european union citizens. at present there is little information on how these diseases may be prevented and treated. due to the seriousness of these diseases it is crucial that more is done at eu level in order to tackle these issues. it is for this reason that i have voted in favour of this report.
mr president, let me first of all address my congratulations to the vice-president of the european commission and thank him for all he has done as the commissioner responsible for this area of responsibility. i hope that the two commissioners - not one commissioner, but the two - who will succeed you will be able to draw inspiration from your political vision, your commitment and your work. thank you, mr. vice president. the possibility of being subject to a final decision is provided for in the case of the country office responsible for europol, for relations with europol and for the schengen area. the office has a number of offices in other european union countries and is working hard to cooperate in this field. i am glad that the work we are doing is making it clear that we appreciate the importance of europol. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european union has a longstanding commitment to the fight against crime, especially as we now live in a free zone, free movement within the european union and in most of the countries of the european union. obviously the reason why we are voting against this proposal is not because we have anything against europol, but precisely because we need to play our part as the european parliament in helping to make the agency that has been set up there able to strengthen and really carry out its work in the fight against crime.
in writing. − in this case the proposal aims at creating a framework that will provide for the harmonisation of rules relating to the collection and dissemination of statistics when it comes to the use as well as the selling of pesticides. there are a number of important definitions and clarifications that have been made and, therefore, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report in question asks that the modifications to the current system of the european crime prevention network be rejected. i believe and agree with the rapporteur that there are a number of areas that require improvement even with regard to the proposal. nevertheless, the interim measures are adequate in order to effect important alterations as soon as possible. it is for these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − georgia has been subjected to an incredible downturn especially following the 2008 conflict with russia. due to georgia's strategic importance, among other reasons, the commission has proposed providing macro-financial assistance to georgia. although i agree that the parliament requires more information on the matter, i have decided to support the rapporteur's recommendation and thus vote in favour of the report.
for us, the area of justice, freedom and security is the next great project of the european union. i would also say that the european union's internal market was a great project. an area of freedom, justice and security for all citizens of the european union. how will we get there? we will achieve this through this stockholm programme which is a five-year work programme. a vast programme covering several areas under the umbrella of freedom, justice and security. parliament's resolution sets out the political priorities of the european parliament in this field. for example, in the area of immigration we have set our priorities on the fight against illegal immigration and on a common asylum policy based on genuine and mandatory solidarity. i would say that the european parliament has a very valuable role and will play its role in a constructive way also in the codecision it will have after the lisbon treaty. there are also certain political differences even within this parliament. why not? there are different political groups and there are political differences. but let me say, and i refer in particular to my colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert, that i respect her very much, but human rights are a political priority for the group of the european people's party too and human rights are not a monopoly of the liberal group in this house. we do not accept that the liberal group claims that the principle of non-discrimination is its monopoly. we believe in this principle but also consider that there is the principle of subsidiarity which means that we must also respect the national sensitivities in the member states of the european union. we must not forget that this union is built on unity in diversity and not on unity in equality.
sometimes we get caught up in our daily routine and fail to appreciate the historical moment we are living in. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is one of those european historical events that will go down in history and that we, our children and those who come after us will study and learn about. but at these moments it is important to reflect also on the meaning of the historical moment. i would like to make two brief reflections. first of all; the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples. instead we will be better placed to face the real realities facing europe, namely the economic situation, namely employment, namely climate change, namely immigration. these are the challenges that the people who put us here have to face. second reflection; the role of this parliament. this is the last time that this parliament is meeting in this plenary with the powers it has had so far. parliament which began fifty years ago where members were appointed by national parliaments. today it is a parliament that shares the power of decisions, legislation and laws with the council of ministers. i think this will lead to better quality laws being made by the european union and to laws that better reflect the interests of citizens. the commitment of this parliament will be to reflect the interests of citizens in the laws it adopts. i hope that the council meeting next week will reflect on the historic significance of this event and, together with us, overcome the challenges ahead.
in writing. – one in five women has been subjected to domestic violence in europe. in malta, 467 cases of domestic violence were reported between january and october 2009, but these figures are probably not fully representative of the problem in malta. similarly, statistics in other member states are misleading. this is because women, often fear being misunderstood by authorities and judicial bodies. the resolution outlines that violence, aside from its criminality, is also a question of discrimination and inequality – an area of eu competence. the motion rightly focuses on the prosecution of perpetrators. that there should be no legal loopholes that allow perpetrators to go unpunished is important. having said that however the rehabilitation of abusive partners should also be considered in order to avoid future repetition of violence. certain member states do not have sufficiently trained staff to adequately provide support, help and advice to victims. for victims – creating shelters is not enough. such women require help from government to re-enter the labour market in order to acquire true economic independence from their abuser. training programmes for victims must be stepped up, to allow them to fully reintegrate into society, and the eu should use its power to fully address such blatent inequalities.
in writing. − the notion of volunteering is crucial in modern day societies. it is something that is done out of the free will of the person concerned and can have an incredibly positive impact on the lives of many. the european year of volunteering is hence an important initiative. i am in agreement with the rapporteur. it is for these reasons that i have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − one of the most detrimental consequences of the global economic crisis is the lack of credit being supplied by banks, which is preventing individuals as well as large companies from conducting their economic activities. the proposal being made by the european commission provides for the establishment of a microfinance facility that seeks to aid in alleviating the current hesitation in funding by banks and other financial institutions. it is for this reason that i have decided to support the rapporteur on this issue and vote in favour of the report.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - it is a sovereign right of the member states to decide, according to their constitutional norms, which consultations they wish to hold directly with the people. i will not make hypothetical statements about hypothetical referendums. what i can tell you is that the member states take whatever decisions they want to take on this matter. i will therefore not prejudge the referendum in a country or the reaction to a referendum organised by the commission. the commission has powers to verify measures and decisions taken by the member states in the application of european law. in that case the commission has not only the right but also the duty to take a decision.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - madam, you are asking a hypothetical question. my french isn't as good as yours, but when you say "if", it's a hypothetical question. "if there was a referendum" is a hypothetical question. (applause) i would like to thank i'm not in the habit of answering hypothetical questions. reality is already very rich. what i can tell you is that the commission is against any form of discrimination, including any form of discrimination on grounds of religion. that is our position and it is clear. this is not just the commission's position, it is the position of all democratic member states of the european union. that said, i will not be voting on a hypothetical referendum.
i was going to ask the president of the commission a question about the commission but the socialist party intervened today on the commissioners' hearing we have. i hope that there will not be any games on the part of the socialist party to start now playing with the portfolios of the commissioners-designate. we do not have the competence to change the portfolios of commissioners but it is only the competence of the president of the commission. we have very good people who have been elected, from our own party, the liberals and the socialist party, and we should not have the competence to start talking about whether we can change the commissioners' portfolios now before the hearing. i know that was not the subject, but after the intervention of the socialist party, i had to make this intervention.
let me begin by congratulating the council on the courageous conclusions, i would say, it reached last week. i think we have never had clear, concrete, bold conclusions on this sensitive issue from the council as we have had this past week; and therefore i welcome the council. i would say that we must now take action, because the situation in jerusalem is deteriorating day by day and we cannot continue like this. there are problems of blatant violations of international law, there are difficulties that are leading to many, many people suffering greatly, being evicted from their homes, their houses being demolished, houses being built illegally. we cannot remain silent in the face of these injustices because to remain silent would be to send the message that law, diplomacy, and the basic value, so dear to us, of resolving conflicts by peaceful means, are worthless. i don't think we would have allowed all this to happen if it had happened in our country. we must therefore act and act also by creating the necessary climate to generate trust between the two sides, so that there are two different, viable states living together in peace. and let me also welcome the role of jordan which is playing a really good role in this regard. last word to baroness ashton, you have a new role with the lisbon treaty, an important role, which is giving us a chance, for the first time, to give a concrete and lasting solution to the middle east. i ask you not to miss this opportunity.
the biggest issue affecting the proper enforcement of this directive is the lack of trust that member states have in each other's systems. the lack of interest of member states in working together is reflected in the incoherent way member states look at the internal market information system. each member state says it uses the system, but the frequency of its use varies according to the needs for which it is used. it is impossible to make an information exchange system work properly when member states are not using it in the same way. a comprehensive set of information needs to be established which is continuously updated and a reference point needs to be established for all member states, where each member state enters all the information necessary for the actual implementation of this directive. i would like to ask the commission here to tell us what action plans it will take to really implement this directive if we really want to embrace the concept of a single market and do not interpret this concept as we please.
madam president, there is a mistake in the epp voting list. i wish to point out to epp colleagues that the vote on the two separate votes should be a ‘plus’ in our voting list – so, a ‘plus’ for the two separate votes that we shall be voting upon now.
madam president, on behalf of the epp group, i wish to state that the epp voted against the resolution, not because it does not favour transparency or access to documents, certainly under the new treaty, but because it had tabled its own resolution – which eventually we did not vote on – which presented, to our mind, a more balanced approach to this very delicate issue. we have to be careful when discussing the issue of access to documentation and transparency that we do go overboard, and that we do not expose documentation and procedures to a degree which makes the entire system unfeasible. if we are to open up secret negotiations and closed negotiations completely, then we might end up undermining the very negotiations and the very system on which we are built.
in writing. − following the conciliation meeting held on 18 november 2009, parliament and the council were capable of coming to an agreement regarding the use of the flexibility instrument in favour of the eerp as well as of the decommissioning of the kozloduy power plant in bulgaria. while both are important i feel that the proper and correct decommissioning of this power plant is particularly important. i have thereby decided to support the rapporteur and vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the recovery plan has been one of the commission’s responses to the economic crisis that has plagued europe in recent years. its goals include restoring business as well as consumer confidence and, in particular, ensuring that lending is carried out. there has been a need to be flexible and allow for funds to be reallocated from different budgets when necessary. this is why i have to support the rapporteur’s views and vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the maltese delegation in the s&d group will be voting in favour of the motion for resolution on the subsidiarity principle as presented by mr mauro, mr busuttil and mr weber. however, the delegation feels that a wider consensus and a bigger majority on the motion would send a stronger message to europe. in this respect, therefore, it would be more beneficial to support the postponement motion – within a specific time-frame, since this could offer greater possibility for a broader consensus to be reached.
in writing. − the maltese delegation in the s&d group will be voting in favour of the motion for resolution on the subsidiarity principle as presented by mr mauro, mr busuttil and mr weber. however, the delegation feels that a wider consensus and a bigger majority on the motion would send a stronger message to europe. in this respect, therefore, it would be more beneficial to support the postponement motion – within a specific time-frame, since this could offer greater possibility for a broader consensus to be reached.
