the debate on the sustainable use and marketing of plant protection products is a particularly difficult one. it's hard to find a balance between good and evil. on the one hand, chemical agents are harmful to the environment and to health. on the other hand, our agriculture cannot do without plant protection products, because otherwise the risk of plant diseases increases too much. this in turn has negative consequences for food production and the economy. the main task for policy makers and politicians is to find a healthy balance between sustainability and agricultural economics. i think that the compromise proposals before us are very much in that direction. that is why i can support the proposals. i am pleased, among other things, that the approach of risk reduction rather than just use reduction is being maintained. reducing use does not necessarily mean reducing risks. if the pesticide is reduced but then used in higher concentrations, there are few environmental and health benefits. i am also glad that the marketing authorization regulation has not become as restrictive as this house had proposed at first reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to thank both rapporteurs warmly for their cooperation and efforts to achieve this result.
president. - thank you to the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. i think that the compromise reached is a step towards more sustainable agriculture. it's very much needed. of course, pesticides play an important role in preventing disease and pest infestation, but chemical pesticides also pollute the environment and can be harmful to health. it is therefore important that we start to reduce the gap between conventional farming on the one hand and organic farming on the other in a responsible way. this legislation does just that, in particular through three measures which are relevant here. first, some of the most dangerous chemical pesticides are banned. an exception may be made if no alternatives are available. so the tulip is not in danger, but a little less poison in the tulip is absolutely not harmful. secondly - and this is at least as important - there are incentives in the legislation to promote development for more sustainable means and means for small farmers. small crops are crops grown in limited quantities, such as tomatoes, sprouts and tulips. many gardeners feared that the legislation would endanger these crops, but fortunately this fear has proved to be unfounded. on the contrary, the regulation prepares the creation of a special fund to promote research into smallholder farming. a third measure is also important. member states should develop plans to reduce the risks of the use of residual chemical pesticides. the use of chemical pesticides is being reduced everywhere, especially in sensitive areas such as near schools. that's important too. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). i think it would have been better if we had also banned the neurotoxics; these substances may affect the functioning of the human nervous system. so you don't want to spray it on crops.
mr president, as a representative of the netherlands, i have followed this legislation with particular interest and care. we are dealing with a very specific situation as a low-lying country. unlike other areas in europe, it is not possible to operate with european-imposed buffer zones along all waterways. it's not working. you're making normal sustainable production in agriculture and horticulture impossible. the netherlands is also known for its small-scale plantations of tulips, onions, white loaf, etc. and therefore the compromise must be looked at very specifically. the compromise now being reached is much better than the one proposed by mrs breyer, which was voted on in committee. i voted against it as a member of the epp group. there are now good transitional arrangements in place where industry can move forward with innovation, with alternative means. we are now also getting the small farmers' fund, which will give a good boost to these alternatives. the three systems, the three zones in europe for recognition and admission, are also much more adapted to the real world. one more point of concern, mr president. this concerns the authorization of products from outside the european union. we are taking the lead in finding a good balance between public health and practicality, but what about imports from outside? i think that this competitive position in the wto, where this kind of thing is discussed, this parallel import and parallel trade should be discussed. we can accept the proposal; i would like to thank the rapporteurs and in particular mrs klaß and mrs hennicot-schoepges for their efforts. however, the one concern that farmers have is: we're doing sustainable, but the others...? so that's an unsolved problem. i'd like your answer to that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i wish her well from this place. but politically i fundamentally disagree with her on her interference with national public service broadcasting. last thursday, i organised a hearing of the epp-ed on the commission's communication on public service broadcasting with colleagues ruth hieronymi and ivo belet. i can tell you that the attention of the industry and the member states was great. the directorate-general for competition was also present in large numbers. the subject is officially high on the agenda there. the director-general for competition was present as a panel member throughout the morning. the commission's proposal for a revision of the rules governing public service broadcasting is unacceptable in the present form. public service broadcasting plays a crucial role in protecting cultural diversity, linguistic diversity and media pluralism. i am very critical of the commission's plans. first of all, we must realize that public service broadcasting is a national matter and that it is therefore the national authorities, not the european commission, which should determine policy. this is also clearly stated in the protocol on public broadcasting to the amsterdam treaty. member states organise and finance public service broadcasting in their own way. the plans of commissioner kroes seriously undermine the principle of subsidiarity and the freedom of movement of the member states and replace it with european intervention. i am very surprised that she, as a liberal commissioner, should take this course. secondly, i am concerned about the proposal to have a preliminary market test carried out by an independent regulator. the commercial broadcasters have an important role to play in this. is that the point? a market test will in any case result in additional red tape. the question is whether the smaller broadcasting systems can get enough manpower and who will pay the extra costs. do the broadcasters have to pay for this? the taxpayer? this is not realistic in small member states. moreover, the test is very detailed; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the result will be that member states will no longer be able to follow the policies and procedures that are consistent with their national systems. it is also very doubtful whether the prior assessment of the market impact and public value of the new services does not give the commercial competitors too much of a head start. thirdly, i am concerned about the proposal because the public broadcasting systems are not organised in the same way in each member state. there is a diversity of technology and there are differences in broadcasting systems, organisation and scale. there are also differences in language and culture. the rule proposed in the report, 'one size fits all', certainly does not apply in this case. the proposal does not take this into account. after having expressed my concern, i would like to inform you of the epp hearing last thursday. the commission's attitude was very positive. the commission acknowledged that the proposals were perhaps too detailed and that the text needed to be adapted. the director-general informed me that the final communication could be postponed until after 5 march, the day on which the committee on culture will hold a second hearing on this subject. at the end of the hearing, the director-general said that the commission might have to draw up a new draft on the basis of this new information before it could come up with a final communication. that was a very good result. you will understand, mr president, that i am pleasantly surprised by these undertakings. this means that the commission is open-minded and ready to listen to the voice of the industry, the member states and parliament. - very good. i would like to ask the commission a few more questions. firstly, does the commission intend to maintain this detailed market test carried out by an independent regulator - a question which you might perhaps pass on to commissioner kroes - does the commission dispense with this independent regulator and this market test or does it intend to maintain it? my second question: how is technological neutrality guaranteed? does the text of the proposal not distinguish between the existing public service broadcasting and the new media services? third question: following the comments of the director-general for competition: is the commission prepared to draw up a new proposal on the basis of the new information? question four: how is the commission dealing with the court's ruling in the danish tv2 case? will this be included in the new proposal? if not, how is it converted? and finally, one last question: is the commission prepared to involve parliament in the follow-up process and await further discussion with parliament? i hope that the european parliament, the european commission and the member states will work together to produce the final version of the communication.
for 80 years, mr president, public broadcasting has been the medium for informing the public in all its forms. the continuation of this broadcasting is possible through the use of public funds, which may be raised through a separate tax on listening to or watching radio and television. these funds may be supplemented by association contributions from members of broadcasting organisations, as is customary in the netherlands. in addition, in recent decades, public broadcasters have been encouraged by governments to start earning money themselves. this is done not only by advertising time but also by making available much of the information material collected by the broadcaster in the form of books and audiovisual material. it is expected that this will strengthen the link with viewers and listeners, reach new target groups and reduce costs for the public authorities. this task, which has been extended over the years, will not cause any problems as long as there is no commercial broadcaster who feels that his interests are being harmed. from the perspective of commercial broadcasters, the much older public service broadcaster can be seen as a competitor that is highly favoured by the fact that it can enjoy tax benefits. the question is whether the right of public service broadcasters to exist should no longer be derived primarily from their utility to society as a whole, but from the possible market distortion for commercial broadcasters. public interest and private interest no longer clash. this puts the european commission in the presence of conflicting wishes. the future of public service broadcasting is in jeopardy if its scope is restricted in favour of the profit margins of commercial companies. it is even worse when this happens outside this parliament and the explicit objections of 19 of the 27 governments of the member states are rejected. in recent years i have asked the commission on a number of occasions to abandon this heinous scheme. that seems to me the only possible solution, given the widespread concern that is now being aroused. moreover, it is the competence of the member states, not of the european union, that is at stake. i can agree with the questions and the views of mr visser and the other speakers.
mr president, it is clear that the issue at stake here is the tension between the public interest and its role in society against the impact on fair competition and the functioning of the internal market. the borders between public service broadcasting and private broadcasting, but also other media, are increasingly blurred and this is particularly the case when new media such as internet, ipods, sms etc. are at stake. as some people have said, public broadcasting is often the leading actor in innovation in services, but it is clear that this is an impact which is cross-border and across media sectors. therefore, it is important to have consistency between the broadcasting communication and the general framework of services of general economic interest. this is an important issue which we have dealt with in parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs. in particular, the pse group members on this committee have stressed that it is important to create more legal security for services of general economic interest, and we would like to see a framework directive and sector legislation on this decided at a political level. the consultation on the draft communication, which is now before us and has been presented by the commission, can be commented on until 15 january, and it is important to give a clear signal again that this more horizontal general framework would be an important tool to place discussions like this discussion on public broadcasting in a broader context. it is important to see who decides the rules and what balance exists in the rules between market interests and public interests. i have the implicit feeling that the market test mentioned in the communication should give primacy to market and commercial considerations instead of these public considerations. this was our intention with the new horizontal rules on services of general economic interest. i am a bit surprised that the ppe-de group is now focusing so much on these specific issues, whereas they were quite hesitant in supporting our appeal for the more general framework. here is a clear example – also in this case of broadcasting – that, if you do not have a broader clear framework which places more emphasis on and gives more dominance to the public interest aspects, it is always the market interest that will dominate in this type of discussion. i would like to take the opportunity to repeat our appeal for this framework of service of general economic interest, which, horizontally, should reinstate the balance between those interests in favour of the public interest.
mr president, public broadcasting represents pluriformity, diversity, cultural diversity in europe, the heart of democracy - i did not invent it myself, the commission says so too - and public broadcasting is of national interest. there are now plans to test the market in advance, particularly for new media activities. i do not think it is a good idea, because brussels should not want to dictate in advance how member states organise their public services. i believe that the public interest must be assessed at national level and that a mandatory market test is not necessary. i would also like to say something about the bureaucracy. i think it is good to check things, but we must also be careful not to create more rules, more costs for the various member states. furthermore, as regards the offer: i think we should not distinguish between old and new services, because in practice you also see that they are simply intermingled. it 's not one or the other; television programmes are often accompanied by new services and vice versa. so, like in europe, this is confusing. it is not just the market that is at stake, but also the public interest of our public service broadcasters, which everyone, including the commission, supports. i would like to hear from the commission whether this will be reflected in the adapted version of the communication and whether the responsibilities are laid down where they belong, namely with the member states, but are accompanied by rules of the game for services of general interest which should be drawn up in consultation with the european parliament and the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank you all for your very fruitful discussion, which i will certainly convey to my colleague mrs kroes. let me comment on some of your remarks. the amsterdam protocol points to the need to balance financing with state aid and effects on competition. we want member states to take the lead on this, because otherwise we will have to do it in brussels on the basis of complaints. our aim is to give member states more possibilities to develop public service broadcasting, as long as the treaty provisions on competition are respected. public service broadcasting should continue to innovate, educate and, of course, entertain. the commission agrees with these goals. it is up to member states to decide on how to finance public service broadcasting. this is clearly stated in the amsterdam protocol. public broadcasters will be able to experiment freely with new projects. the draft communication makes clear that pilot projects are exempt from the tests. we have always recognised the possibility of providing funding for a public service mission, which includes a wide range of varied and balanced programming by public service broadcasters. this will also remain the case for the future. the commission also wants to guarantee a mixture of public and private. the commission aims at promoting public broadcasters to benefit from new technologies in order to serve the social, democratic and cultural needs of society. the amsterdam test allows member states to provide funding for new media services by public broadcasters. it protects the ability to keep up with changes in our fast-moving media environment. at the same time, it is also in the public interest to maintain the incentives for private operators. innovation by both public and private broadcasters is important for realising the lisbon objectives, and it goes without saying that public broadcasters will also remain free to launch any kind of new service on a commercial basis in the future without prior assessment. i want to assure you that we take the consultation very seriously. we will review the text to take into account legitimate concerns. i will ask our services to take parliament’s and member states’ proposals into account as we review the draft.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not without reason that i have started this report by emphasizing the european perspective of these countries. the union cannot continue to faithfully repeat past promises, such as the thessaloniki council of 2003, with a european perspective for the western balkans. no, mr president, the western balkans benefit more from concrete action and a tailor-made accession path than from hasty, almost obligatory rhetoric. why am i so attached to the prospect of these countries joining? firstly, i am convinced that the union has a debt of honour to pay. i am thinking only of the debate which this house hopes to have later this week, on wednesday evening, on srebrenica. the region is also of great strategic importance for europe. what specific proposals do i make in this report? i am in favour of further strengthening cefta. this is an important tool for increasing regional integration in the region and is an important preparation for all these countries to integrate into the european market and thus to join the union, in stages, in three stages. the european union must provide pre-accession support on a broad front to stimulate the reform process in these countries. member states can also play an important role in this by providing targeted training for local public sector staff. this will give these countries more official capacity to formulate ambitious projects themselves that are eligible for eu funding. mr president, when i started this report, my first activity was a visit to my country's economic affairs department in the hague. i was pleased to hear that the dutch government had adopted the government-to-government approach, and i described this in my report as an example to follow, not because it is a dutch approach, but because it is tailor-made and responds to requests from the western balkans region itself to actively and appropriately support the process of rapprochement. i would like to draw attention to a specific point in my report, mr president, and that is energy cooperation with the western balkans, which i believe is a very topical subject. the region's strategic location enables it to play an important role in the transit of crude oil and natural gas. the union must seriously work on an external energy policy. i am also a member of the foreign affairs committee; we have already adopted a solid report a few years ago to arrive at a european external energy policy. well, look at the present situation! the present situation underlines this call from the european parliament to the commission, to the council. brussels cannot leave its own member states in the cold, either literally or figuratively. finally, mr president, as a former journalist i have travelled a lot in the balkans. so i have a lot of empathy, a lot of involvement with the region. in the context of my report, i also used my travel budget for study trips; i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. in short, i am finishing this report tonight, but the work is far from finished for me and for the european institutions. if we are committed to bringing the region closer to brussels and if we actually show that commitment by active support, then we can rightly demand that the reform process, the admission process, be worth our own efforts and that must be demonstrated. i have had a great deal of pleasure working on this report and i hope that it will be followed up in separate reports for the individual countries of the western balkans.
in writing. the vvd group voted in favour of the mcguinness report on the common agricultural policy and global food security, despite the fact that it disagrees with the content of the report on certain points. the vvd group would have liked the report to emphasize clearly that the reduction of trade barriers in the developed world should be carried out on a reciprocal basis. the commission also welcomed the report's call for a special, faster procedure for the authorisation of cisgenic products. cysgenic products are now subject to the same procedure as ordinary biotechnology products, while using genes of their own kind.
president. - i too would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleague, mr coelho, for his efforts. he has managed to reach a compromise with the council and the commission at first reading and i wholeheartedly support that compromise, including the principle of one person, one passport. but i would like to go into that a little bit more. this principle should provide greater protection against, among other things, child trafficking and child abduction, because each child would be given his own passport with a chip containing his biometric data. there is a price to be paid for this, of course, especially in those member states where it has been possible to add children to the parents' passports. in the netherlands, a passport costs a maximum of 48 euros and a child's passport costs 8.50 euros. so for a family with three children, that means that you go from the old situation, where you were actually ready for 120 euros, to a doubling of the cost, to more than 240 euros. of course, any parent would be happy to put that amount on the table if it is in the child's best interests. but if you can kidnap a child, can't you get his or her passport? the amended regulation will no longer allow children to be entered in passports; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. how can you properly control parental authority? within three years, the european commission should consider whether additional regulations are needed, for example common rules on the crossing of borders by children. now, member states are still dealing with this very differently. i call on the european commission to include in that evaluation whether and how the introduction of one passport per person has contributed to reducing the number of child abductions. has the present compromise had the desired effect or are there undesirable side effects which require adjustment? the safety of our children requires constant attention. today we're taking a step. if it is in the child's interest to take additional steps in the medium term, then you will undoubtedly find the christian democrats in this house on your side.
it is good that we are talking about a new medicines legislation tonight. i would therefore like to thank commissioner verheugen for this opportunity. commissioner verheugen rightly notes that some changes in the legislation are needed. increased attention to safety, better rules on patient information and effective measures against counterfeit medicines; i would like to emphasize that the patient must be the centre of this. medicines are strictly controlled. you can't just put something on the market like that. medicines are rigorously tested before they go on the market, but once they go on the market, they're hardly tested at all. the monitoring of a medicine once it is on the market is limited. adverse reactions are reported, but studies on the effectiveness of medicines are lacking. the proposed legislation gives us an opportunity to improve this and we really need to do so. cholesterol-lowering drugs, for example, are being swallowed en masse. yet little is known about the effectiveness of the different products, and even less about which product is most effective. the same is true of antidepressants and other drugs that affect the mental state. it would be good if the pharmaceutical industry were obliged to conduct more extensive research into the effectiveness and side effects of its products. independent verification is necessary. patient information about medicines is a controversial topic, we all know that. in the united states, watching prime-time television shows a great many ills. ask your doctor about the medicine x for breast cancer or the medicine y for bladder infection. so far, there is a ban on advertising medicines in europe, and i think that should remain the case. we should not be smeared with diseases and given medicines. the pharmaceutical industry wants to inform patients about their products and feels that it is best able to do so itself. i can imagine some of that, but again, independent review is crucial. the draft law will relax the rules for the provision of information via the internet and printed media. it is a modern and progressive proposal, as commissioner verheugen himself says. there must be a very clear line between information and advertising and patients must have the right to reliable information. it would therefore be useful to include information in european databases of comparative information on the action and side effects of medicines. the third proposal in the package strengthens the rules to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the market. this is very right, because, as mr bowis has already stressed, the marketing of counterfeit medicines is a serious crime. commissioner verheugen has also rightly said that it is not so much the parallel trade that is at issue, but that it is a very different mechanism and that we must try to deal with it. in the coming days we will be looking more closely at the pros and cons of patient information, counterfeit medicines and patient safety, because there are certainly a number of public tasks involved. industry has a responsibility, patients have a certain responsibility, but certainly government does too.
in writing. - explanation of vote on behalf of the cda delegation to the european parliament on the cappato report on access to documents the cda delegation in the european parliament abstained today in the vote on the cappato report on access to voting documents. not because we are against transparency. we are in favour of transparency and democratic control. it is not for nothing that former mep hanja maij-weggen was at the forefront of community legislation in this area. we abstained because the cappato report contains too many inaccuracies, incorrect wording and unsound statements. for example, we believe that the public access to council documents should be guaranteed, but there is a clear distinction between documents for legislative and other procedures. the rapporteur does not, however, distinguish between these procedures. we are also concerned about the high administrative burden that the recommendations of the cappato report would entail. we could not agree with the report because of the inaccuracies and vagueness. we did not vote in the end because we wanted to support the principle of transparency and democratic control.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. since its inception in 1987, the islamist movement hamas has firmly adhered to this fundamental principle. it is fully supported by the islamic republic of iran. in this ideological view, there is absolutely no place for the jewish state of israel in the middle east. the pernicious effects of this muslim totalitarianism are manifesting themselves in a bloody manner in the gaza strip today. the military deployment of mosques in gaza, with all its dramatic consequences, is an illustration of hamas's worldview. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if europe is really concerned about the survival of the jewish state of israel, a confrontation with hamas and its ally hezbollah in iran is imminent. are we prepared to face that bleak, if real, prospect? for hamas and its allies, a ceasefire or a temporary truce is only a respite in the jihad against israel.
i think i can join many colleagues in saying that the commission is not a party to the treaty. the events of the past week have caused great surprise among us. i was also quite irritated yesterday when i heard russian and ukrainian colleagues who came here and said that they were not at fault. we are constantly getting conflicting information about what is exactly going on, one story after another, and it is very difficult for us as parliamentarians to find out what is exactly going on. we can only hope that this confusion will be resolved in the coming days and that the gas will flow again as promised. if the gas starts flowing again, does that mean business as usual? i don't think he is. we had the same experience in 2006, but the impact on the european union was much less severe then; the problem was a dispute between moscow and kiev over the price of gas, which also led to a break in gas supplies to europe. we have already pointed out the danger of a repetition of the situation of that time. it's time now. we know that gas is negotiated every year, because ukraine and russia work on one-year contracts. it was only last month, when the crisis erupted again, that the european union took action. much of what we discussed in 2006 has not come to fruition. we knew then that we were too dependent on one pipeline, which brings almost 80% of the gas through one country. we discussed then that we must work quickly on alternative access routes. it also became clear at that time that we do not know exactly whether we as eu countries could help each other in the event of problems in certain countries, as we do now, in particular in bulgaria, slovakia and a number of other countries. in recent years, little has been done in this area either. the past few weeks have made it clear how difficult it is to put in place a mechanism whereby we can help each other. russia and ukraine have done a great deal of damage to themselves and their reputations. i do not think we are the first to blame one side or the other. clearly, both countries have little sense of customer-friendliness. in fact, they're now inflicting great damage on their best customer. we are a good customer of russia, we pay for that pipeline through ukraine, we pay our bills on time and we pay for the gas at world prices. i don't think that can be said loud enough to both sides. of course, the situation raises a number of questions. what about the conflict of interest in the gas sector in russia, the kremlin's influence on gazprom? i know a little bit more about ukraine and from experience i know that the gas business there is a very shady business; i think that there are some things that we should investigate further. like my colleague swoboda, i am in favour of a parliamentary inquiry into how this could have happened, into what the eu has not done in recent years that should have been done, into how exactly those gas sectors in ukraine and russia are set up now, so that in the future we may be able to prevent a similar situation, or have a better understanding of what is going on here.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, our society cannot live without energy. it's coming out now. the gas must continue to flow and in the short term i think it is particularly important to use all diplomatic channels. the commission and the council are doing so in a very commendable way at the moment in order to ensure that gas supplies are restored as soon as possible; the threat of legal proceedings will not help. in the medium term, i think it is very important to establish a european energy market. we must take measures which we have neglected to take up to now; there must be action. the member states in particular have a very important role to play. i am thinking, for example, of the accelerated construction of the nabucco and north stream pipelines; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the energy market, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax. we must take action and i wonder why the member states have so far failed to take action.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in belarus. this over-zealous forecast has come at a cost to president lukashenko in early 2009. his regime is in dire need of funds, minsk is already knocking on the door of the imf, moscow and even washington for billions in loans. the first-mentioned lender was conditioned by the devaluation of the belarusian ruble by as much as 20.5% on 2 january. the fear of the belarusian citizens is still evident today. understandably, with the average monthly wage plummeting from 400 to 333 us dollars, the euro is now a coveted currency in minsk and beyond. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in belarus is not further worsened. i am not suggesting that this is an imaginary danger, because apart from the current financial problems, a cosmetic shift of lukashenko's course towards the west is also a real option. the powerful president would simply be exchanging his strategy of simulated integration with russia for simulated rapprochement with the european union. the forthcoming gas negotiations with supplier russia could provide additional impetus for such a simulation. the european union must adopt a balanced strategy to deal with such an undesirable political scenario in minsk. all european institutions will have to address all belarusian institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is committed to the development of the region and to building bridges with the belarusian social classes.
we are talking tonight, mr president, about the eu's policy towards belarus, a policy which places democracy and respect for human rights at its core. i want to focus on one aspect: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children are not allowed to leave the country, without, of course, prejudicing all the other relevant matters which have been raised this evening. you may be aware that children who were victims of the chernobyl disaster have been coming to the netherlands and other countries of the european union for years to recuperate for a while from the aftermath of this disaster. of course, these are children who were born long after the disaster - they are now about the same age as i was when the disaster happened 22 years ago - but they are still experiencing its effects on a daily basis, as evidenced by the statistics on thyroid disease, cancer and so on. each year, some 30,000 belarusian children are welcomed into 21 countries by host families, voluntary organizations and churches. in october 2008, news came that belarus would issue a decree to stop these children's travel and ban them from going abroad. so, off to christmas. thanks in part to pressure from the european union, the council of europe and a number of foreign ministers, including our dutch minister verhagen, that decree was temporarily lifted from 20 december to 20 january and a number of children were still able to go on holiday, but after 20 january this year nothing has been arranged. the european union has also expressed its support for the efforts of the belarusian authorities to ensure that the belarusian authorities do not continue to use the system of temporary suspension of the visa requirement. we would prefer to settle this for all the member states at once and not, as is the case now, through bilateral negotiations, 27 times over. we therefore call in our resolution on the czech presidency to negotiate with the belarusian authorities an eu-wide solution.
the name srebrenica has become world famous because of the mass murder of 8,000 muslim men in 1995. the survivors, women and young people, rightly call for continued attention to be paid to this. after my visit to srebrenica in march 2007, i asked the european commission to contribute to sustainable income and employment through projects to promote tourism, which would make srebrenica more than just a place of history and great memories. srebrenica is also a symbol of the failure of optimistic ideas about humanitarian interventions and safe havens. it should have been clear from the beginning that a foreign military presence could only provide false illusions. it made srebrenica a base of operations against the serbian environment, when it was inevitable that it would eventually be swallowed up by that same environment. without the dutch military force in srebrenica, there would have been no war situation and there would have been no need for revenge on the serbian side. the victims are not only a reason to put mladic and karadzic on trial, but also a reason to reflect critically on the failure of military interventions and of all attempts to establish a unified state in ethnically divided bosnia.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a voice from srebrenica, big tears rolling down his cheeks. he hugged me, kissed me, and said, "please, mum, please go!" they grabbed him; i didn't want to go, so i got down on my knees and told them: "kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, kill me, what are you doing? you took my only child. i don't want to go anywhere. kill me and that will be the end of us". the moving account of a bosnian woman who lost both her husband and her 12-year-old son in the srebrenica massacre of july 1995. her voice and those of her fellow-sufferers are heard today, thanks in part to the invaluable research of conscientious scientists like amsterdam professor selma leydesdorff. the horrors of srebrenica remain a sign and a calling, first of all in word and deed, especially now that the european union is offering the western balkans a european accession perspective. in short, real attention to all the survivors of this genocide. srebrenica, july of '95. i was the foreign editor of a dutch newspaper at the time, and i followed the bosnian battlefield closely. how i felt ashamed and defeated by the hollow international concept of safe haven, especially as a dutch citizen. "come tonight with stories, how the war has disappeared, and repeat them a hundred times, every time i'll cry". the words of that famous poet from the memory culture of my country, the second world war, will henceforth accompany 11 july, the day of remembrance of the dear dead of srebrenica and potocari.
mr president, we are again discussing the transport of animals in this house and we will again conclude two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, steps have been taken in the field of driver training, improved transport conditions and the use of gps, but it is certainly not enough. secondly, control remains the achilles heel of this legislation. the control from europe is lacking and is still very much organized at national level. there is therefore an urgent need for agreements on cross-border complaint handling and evidence gathering. i would also like to see more control by the food and veterinary office. an amendment of mine to provide more money for this in the budgetary procedure was rejected by the european commission, among others. i am also hearing the european commission speak about national reports which the commission will then assess from behind a desk. the european commission sometimes prefers to keep its hands clean rather than to ensure genuine european-wide controls, ad hoc controls by european inspectors and european supervision. other improvements to be made in the current legislation are: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world. despite the lack of a european overview of the actual implementation of this legislation, there are of course signs, for example from austria, where an on-the-spot inspector says: "i see a lot of empty trucks going to poland, the czech republic, for example. i just don't see them fully returning to southern europe". does this mean that when the wagons are full, they will simply take a detour around austria, where the controls may be stricter than in the surrounding countries? i think this is an indication that the member states are dealing with this legislation in quite different ways. another problem is the role of the veterinarians who have to sign for transport. in some cases, commissioner, these veterinarians have become stamping machines. a man of sound mind cannot sign for a transport from romania to southern italy that will take 24 hours. the last 300 miles [500 km] of this horse transportation would take 2.5 hours, according to the transportation plan. were those animals in a ferrari? finally, young animals, young dogs, for example, are being driven across europe today, for which nothing has yet been arranged. i would therefore call on the european commission to look into this as well. so enough of the house's homework and we look forward to the commission's proposals, which we do expect before the next european parliament elections.
we propose to delete the last sentence of paragraph 9, which reads: ‘calls on the belarusian authorities to end their practice of issuing exit visas to their citizens, in particular children and students’. we want to delete this because the authorities have already abolished this system of exit visas, so it is obsolete.
in writing. - i support the establishment of a day of commemoration for the genocide in srebrenica precisely because the actions of the eu and its member states have created a false sense of security, which has prevented the inhabitants from fleeing in time. those who support military intervention do not like to hear such criticism. last night my speech was hammered by the president, perhaps partly because of irritation over its content. the last part, which was hardly understood by the president's hammering, belongs in this report. srebrenica is also a symbol of the failure of optimistic ideas about humanitarian interventions and safe havens. it should have been clear from the beginning that a foreign military presence could only provide false illusions. it made srebrenica a base of operations against the serbian environment, when it was inevitable that it would eventually be swallowed up by that same environment. without the dutch military force in srebrenica, there would have been no war situation and there would have been no need for revenge on the serbian side. the victims are not only a reason to put mladić and karadžić on trial, but also a reason to reflect critically on the failure of military interventions and of all attempts to establish a unified state in ethnically divided bosnia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the persecution of shirin ebadi is not an isolated incident. for years it has enjoyed a privileged position among the regime's critics. the existence of her human rights centre gave the impression that things are still going well in iran. most of the victims of the theocratic regime in iran are unknown. different political views, protests by discriminated ethnic and religious minorities, homosexuality and the struggle against the disadvantaged position of women are reasons for imprisonment or murder. many things that are normal in europe can cost you your life there. some victims are hung demonstratively from high cranes in the presence of a large crowd. nevertheless, the outside world, including europe, is not very much interested in this terrible situation and how it can be ended. international interest is much more focused on other issues. on the one hand, they concern the limitation of iran's military power and the prevention of the use of nuclear energy. on the other hand, the main emphasis is on the continued supply of oil and the maintenance and/or expansion of good trade relations. the result is that on the one hand there is a constant threat of war against iran, while on the other hand criticism is swallowed up of the lack of human rights. it even leads to buying the cooperation of the iranian regime by continually re-listing the main opposition in exile as terrorists. the council has to put an end to the bizarre situation whereby every time a court ruling declares the listing of a terrorist to be illegal, the council, on behalf of the european union, adopts a similar decision. unlike most other persecuted women in iran, shirin ebadi is not anonymous, but internationally known and respected. the nobel prize status has thus far sometimes afforded her a limited degree of freedom. the fact that this status is now ending shows the need for international support for those forces that seek change.
author. - mr president, on 15 february 2007 we discussed as a matter of urgency the state violence of the dictator lansana conté in guinea. this dictator came to power after a coup d'état and has been in power since 1984. he considered the land his private property, of particular interest because of its natural reserves of gold, iron and bauxite. most parties did not participate in the elections organised under his control. the official opposition, which was still represented in parliament for a time, was forced to leave parliament. this made the cntg and ustg the main force in the struggle for democracy. their demonstration on january 22, 2007 was met with the killing of 59 people and the wounding of 150 others. it was done by the presidential security forces, led by the dictator's son. this appalling regime came to an unexpected end last december with the death of the dictator. the junta has put a banker in charge as prime minister. the question now is what the military junta, which has since taken power, is paving the way for. is this a step towards democracy and equality for all the inhabitants, or does this new coup prepare the way for a new dictator who is once again mainly interested in the resources of the earth and the possibility of enriching himself with them? the outside world is reacting in confusion. the west african economic community (ecowas) has condemned the latest coup. the nigerian president praises the late dictator, but fortunately he does demand a swift transfer of power to a democratically elected government. france and senegal are also pressing for elections within a year. my group has always supported the demands of the democratic opposition in guinea over the years, which still seems to be out of the question. we do not condemn the change of power, but we do condemn the possible continuation of the lack of democracy in the near future. there is no reason to punish or isolate guinea, but to point out to the new powers that their action can only be temporary. the country does not need a new dictator, but the restoration of democracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. after world war ii, when europe was gradually accepting that the independence of african countries was inevitable, kenya was explicitly excluded, as is present-day zimbabwe. the colonial administrators felt that there were too many foreign settlers and too many foreign economic interests in those countries to be left to the predominantly black inhabitants. unlike in west africa, kenya's independence was not achieved peacefully, but after a long and violent struggle by the mau mau independence movement. this need for violent struggle has laid the foundation for a continuation of violence and intimidation. the conquerors were mostly from one large tribe, the kikuyu. other groups of the population have always been kept in opposition, if necessary by means of falsified election results. the recent presidential elections have again shown that a non-kikuyu cannot become president, even if he is elected by a majority of voters. thanks to a compromise, the opposition candidate is now prime minister and internal peace seems to have been restored. while zimbabwe is seen as the country with the bad compromise, kenya was hailed as the country with the good compromise. for years, kenya was seen in western europe and america as a great success. it was the land of relative prosperity, freedom for international enterprises, friendship with the west and attention to tourists. now, kenya is no longer seen as a success. new tensions are being created by food shortages and a new press law. the president's lease of 40,000 hectares of agricultural land for the food supply of the oil-rich state of qatar in return for the construction of the port has contributed to this food shortage. the press law seems to be a tool used by the president to limit the power of the coalition government and to eliminate critical opposition. all the more so because that law was passed without even consulting the prime minister. the coalition compromise between the president and the prime minister is in jeopardy if the president is given the chance to bypass the prime minister, limit the role of the government and protect his own role from the critical press.
the doha negotiations have been going on for some time and it is good that europe has committed itself to making really big steps to bring us closer together. europe has put forward a far-reaching agricultural proposal, but unfortunately it has not yet been answered on an equal footing by the other countries. that is why it is so important to pay close attention to the whole package, including nama and the services. i would like to support your efforts to reach an agreement quickly. we must beware of protectionist measures which are increasingly coming to the fore, especially in the face of the deterioration of the world economy, but also in the name of protecting food security. we must, however, remain firmly committed to reciprocity in europe. we open it, they open it. what can we expect from the new american president and the package he has just launched? what can we expect from china? and that is where we particularly expect your commitment, because in times of economic and financial crisis with mass redundancies and shrinking economies, it is precisely this opening of markets that can take us further. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you cannot give that answer in two minutes, nor in five or six. i totally get that. but i challenge you to be transparent in the future with the public about what you are doing and what it means to them. it is particularly important in the run-up to the european elections, and i hope that we can count on you in this respect.
author suppleant. − madam president, on behalf of the committee on international trade, i would like to set out what is at stake here. it is about production and employment in the textile and clothing sector in various european member states. the european union and china have agreed to a joint surveillance system relating to exports of certain categories of textile and clothing products from china to european member states, but this system expired on 31 december 2008. during the last two years, 350 000 jobs have been lost, and the number of companies was reduced by 5% during the same period. in the light of the growing number of enterprises that are ceasing to operate, or relocating production, leading to an increase of unemployment in several regions, i would like to put the following questions on behalf of the international trade committee: has the commission or any member state proposed or requested the extension of the dual surveillance mechanism beyond 31 december 2008 or any other measures in that framework? what measures does the commission intend to adopt to protect production and employment in the textile and clothing sector? will the commission continue to monitor real-time market developments, import statistics and customs monitoring and keep the sector informed of the latest developments? what is the current situation regarding the proposed regulation on ‘made in’ labels? what measures have been taken by the commission to address the proposals adopted by parliament in its resolution of 13 december 2007?
the report by mr laperrouze tackles the real problems of energy supply which the european union is facing today. the recent gas conflict between russia and ukraine has not left the european union untouched. the report sets out a number of guidelines for the european energy market which will reduce the european union's vulnerability in the event of a new conflict. i can therefore support the aim of a greater variety of energy sources and partner countries from which the eu imports energy, in short the necessary energy diversification. the gas dispute between russia and ukraine underlines this urgency once again, and i therefore sincerely hope that the nabucco project, for example, will be successful in the near future. in practical terms, this means that the european union and the member states should do more to promote regional integration. the networks of a number of member states are still too isolated and dependent on imports from third countries. we are also making the internal market work better by creating new links between the energy networks of the member states. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. this is the best way of preventing asymmetric market opening. in the meantime, a number of member states are starting up nuclear power stations that have been closed as a result of agreements with the european union. this doesn't seem like the best way forward. rather, investing in more cross-border connections could reduce the dependency on one or a few third countries in a more sustainable way. other important policies in the report with which i fully agree are increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy. however, member states differ on whether nuclear energy should play a role in reducing co2 emissions. this is therefore a choice which the eu should leave to the member states. however, more clarity on this point would have been good for the report. i hope that amendment will improve this.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr angelilli, on this clear report. it is quite clear that the sexual exploitation of children must be stopped. the explosive growth of criminal activity via the internet calls for a coordinated approach. we must, however, be reluctant to go on at european level to prescribe detailed penalties for this abuse. the member states themselves will have to do their utmost to make misuse of modern media a criminal offence. child pornography on the internet will have to be regulated in the criminal law of the member states. the council should make an effort to close the loopholes in the legal net, following the example of the professional bans, so that exploitation and broadcasting via the internet do not move to countries where adequate legislation is lacking. i would like to hear from the council whether it also sees possibilities to discuss this with the countries which are not members of the european union, but unfortunately the council is not there. i also call for intensive cooperation between europol and eurojust. the fight against international child pornography networks must be given priority in their organisation. the possibilities for appropriate action outside the european union are thus increased. if we agree that the sexual exploitation of children is undesirable, i suggest that we also discuss the exploitation of adults. the initiatives to reduce prostitution around large-scale events such as football championships and the olympic games deserve more support in this parliament.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, but i would also like to mention our shadow rapporteur on behalf of the epp group, mr simon busuttil, and the rapporteur on social affairs, mrs edit bauer. it is thanks to their efforts that the compromise text finally does what it is supposed to do, namely to remove the attraction of labour to illegal migration by effectively punishing workers who are staying in the european union illegally. contrary to what some parties in this parliament were initially trying to achieve, this legislation has not become an instrument for the regularisation of illegal residents. after all, the debate on legal migration is being held elsewhere. as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights, i believe that more attention should be paid to the gender issue in dealing with this group of people who are in the european union illegally and who are often victims - as has already been said - of exploitation. estimates of the number of third-country nationals illegally residing in the european union vary from 4.5 to 8 million. moreover, these estimates do not provide insight into the proportion of men and women in that total, nor do they provide insight into the gender-specific problems faced by illegal female migrants. i would point out that illegal immigrant women are very vulnerable and that they are often the group that is the victim of forced labour, trafficking and violence. this requires specific training for the authorities responsible. but as always, it's about control. i am glad that the arbitrary 10% control that was first proposed is now off the table and that it is a risky approach in the compromise text. the fact that this is not a far-from-my-bed show is proved by the reports in the belgian newspaper 'de standaard' last summer about domestic slaves in certain embassies in brussels, a stone's throw from the berlaymont building. i would therefore say to the european commission: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. take responsibility for looking critically at how countries deal with this legislation and whether they are effectively implementing it!
on behalf of the alde group the european union has been struggling for years with the presence of millions of illegal immigrants on its territory and the pressure to find a solution is growing. the pressure is great and justified, to be honest. if we are to have a manageable and reliable migration policy, where the refugee has the right to protection and where we create clear opportunities for legal migration, then tackling all the attractive and repulsive factors that lead to illegal immigration is a necessary condition. last summer the council and parliament reached agreement on the so-called 'return directive', which is aimed primarily at the illegal immigrant himself. today, attention is focused on the employer who does not shy away from employing illegals. this is not only a major attraction for illegal immigration, but it also creates undeniably abusive and grossly exploitative situations. the importance of a harmonized european approach is beyond doubt in my view. in the absence of internal borders, member state a can worry endlessly, but if member state b then fails to tackle the employment of illegal workers, or does so only with a limited degree of care, member state a will end up being a voice in the wilderness. after a somewhat slow start, after intensive negotiations with the council, a compromise acceptable to me is now on the table and i thank the rapporteur for his constructive and pragmatic approach. it was a relief. i cannot say the same about some of his colleagues who now insist on the accompanying written statement, a show for the stage which does not do the image of this parliament any good. but my group will accept that too. it should also be clear that, after the adoption of this directive, the member states will be in charge. it should be clear that neither the european commission nor the european parliament has a magic wand when it comes to action, when it comes to enforcement. the council did not want to hear of a binding percentage for inspections, and that is precisely what is often lacking - as has been said by several members of this parliament and by the commissioner. all i can say is: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. it's not good for anybody. the proposal is another step in the right direction towards the establishment of a comprehensive migration policy. but we are far from there, so we must move on now. i therefore ask the question of the day: why is the council not present at this debate? i think that is unacceptable, to be honest.
it is another two years since commissioner frattini announced plans to tackle illegal work, illegal work that is leading to a continuous flow of illegals to work in the european union. it's inhumane and it has to be stopped. however, madam president, i do not agree with the rapporteur on the question of whether the european union should intervene in criminal law. i am not in favour of making criminal law a european competence. this is where a method of open coordination is needed. i therefore welcome the fact that the amended compromise proposal is reserved about the application of criminal law. the financial sanctions provide a sufficient incentive to be careful in the choice of employees. i hope that the inspections of companies will encourage the member states to take action under criminal law.
in writing. − the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are abominable crimes and international cooperation is necessary to put a stop to them. i therefore voted in favour of the angelilli report today. however, there are aspects of the report that i do not support, such as creating a uniform extraterritorial criminal legislation applicable throughout the eu and defining at eu level what should be considered a crime and aggravating circumstances.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the european union seems to be trying to come up with a joint response in principle, and the czech presidency is going to draw on that. the exact placement of people is still a matter of national consent, but it is said that europe will in principle respond positively to an american request. parliament will do well to do so, because as far back as 2006 we asked the european union to proactively urge the member states to relocate prisoners, including in the european union. my question to the council is: are you willing to do this proactively? now, would you ask america which prisoners are involved? are you going to ask what their history is and what is going to happen to them so that we can prepare for it? but in itself i welcome this positive attitude to put an end to the human rights violations to which these people have been subjected. mr president, this is of course wonderful when it comes to guantanamo bay, which is a symbol. but let us not forget that there are other prisons on which we must express our views. i am thinking, for example, of bagram, near kabul, which also has about 600 to 700 people. i ask the council and the commission to ensure that these prisons are also closed. president, while i was pleased with the comments on guantanamo bay, i am a little dismayed about the cia. i understand the council's wish to look ahead rather than backwards. i understand that very well, because if you look back, you see a lot of shit. it's a little too simple to say, i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter.
president obama kept his word. one of his first acts was to close the prison at guantanamo and of course we are very happy about that. it was, rather, the announcement of the closure of guantánamo, because the new american government is faced with the difficult task of finding a solution for the remaining prisoners. first, their status must be established and whether they can all be released without risk. they have been illegally detained by the bush administration in clear violation of international law. the first is that the problem is american and must be solved by washington. whether the us will seek help from the european countries and the european union is not clear at this stage and to anticipate too much is somewhat speculative. i also disagree with colleagues who think that we should make commitments now on the assumption that the european union is morally obliged to do so because some countries may have been involved in the transport of prisoners to guantánamo. that's based on conjecture. we have never been able to prove that this actually happened and we do not know which countries may have been involved in these transports. so i think that our argument for taking in prisoners is somewhat weak and i am also glad that this is not the case in the resolution. of course, we must not rule out the possibility that the americans will make this request after all, and i agree with my group's chairman. if that request is made, we will certainly have to respond positively to it, for reasons of international law, but also because of the need for the european union to respond in a humanitarian manner in such a situation.
the fight against terrorism must be a joint action to which all democracies contribute. so it is not just europe, it is also the united states, but others. guantánamo does not fit into a rule of law, because in a rule of law, a suspect, even if he is a terrorist, is entitled to protection and a fair trial based on the values we share. i appreciate president obama's decision to close guantanamo bay, but it must not and cannot be that the problem is put on the european plate first. after all, we're dealing with prisoners here at guantanamo bay, not kittens you can tackle without gloves. we can help, but if we are helpful, if there is no other way, it can only be on the basis of a european decision, european standards. we shall have to decide that together. let us clearly recognize that this is still an american problem and that we could be helpful, simply because human rights are at the forefront.
the report on the dramas taking place at our external borders is not a lie. the urgency is enormous and has been for some time. the council has repeatedly made the same observation - on paper, of course. with all due respect, mr president-in-office, and of course with thanks for your contribution, but this is a repeat of what we have done. nice words and then it stops. it is almost ironic that we are also voting on the roure report this week. this report sets out our findings from our visits to all hot spots, including lampedusa. the european union is failing, and not just a little bit. the question is, mr president of the council: have you even taken note of all our interim reports? tampere, the hague programme, the french pact on immigration and asylum and, in future, the stockholm programme - all these fine words stand in stark contrast to reality. it is this reality that shows us that the european union is still a long way from taking its responsibilities. the lack of solidarity is shocking. no one, and therefore no one in this house, is saying that we are faced with a simple problem. of course, it is difficult to deal adequately with large flows of immigrants and asylum seekers. but this is not new, it is not yesterday's news. a review of existing instruments has been launched, but will this bring the desired improvements? i dare to doubt that now. experience shows that the council is not always forthcoming at crucial moments. the fact is that member states, while in theory pursuing far-reaching harmonisation, in practice opt for decision-making that does the opposite. the greatest common denominator then suddenly turns out to be minimal, that's my experience of the last five years. not to mention enforcement. i said it earlier today in another debate: it should be clear that neither the european commission nor the european parliament has a magic wand. in the end it is the council and the member states that have to do it.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others it is now more than two or three years since a delegation from the committee on civil liberties visited various refugee reception centres in 2005 and 2006. after lampedusa, the canary islands, the netherlands, and poland were visited. the reports on this subject led to a lively debate and this parliament called on the council and the commission to take action. this morning we discussed the proposal to tackle illegal work in the absence of the council. the time limit for transposition into national law by the member states is two years. but, mr president, the question of immigration is urgent and the two-year time limit is too long. we have been debating lampedusa for three years now and we are talking again and again about measures to reduce illegal immigration. but every measure shows that after a decline, there is an increase in immigrants. it is shocking that the issue of lampedusa should be brought up again. it seems that the reports of this parliament on the situation in the shelters are not making any sense. i therefore call on the presidency of the council to make this a priority. i understand that in 2007 more than 12 000 immigrants arrived in lampedusa and in 2008 more than 30 000. the shelter is not designed for this. we've known that for three years. the old nato base is being re-equipped for more spacious accommodation, but that is not a satisfactory solution. i would like to hear from the council what you are going to do to support italian initiatives for better reception. is there a role for frontex and are other member states prepared to provide financial and material support to italy? last night the whole of the netherlands could see on the evening news how things are going on lampedusa. now the gates to journalists and ngos are closed again. i call on italy to be open and transparent about the treatment of immigrants on lampedusa.
for the pse group first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to my colleague, karl-heinz florenz. with great effort and determination he wrote his report. i think it has become a complete report with almost 200 recommendations and really worthwhile. it contains many good recommendations which can be a source of inspiration for the next parliament, national parliaments and local authorities. i shall mention five main lines which are really essential for our group. first of all, this report recognises that climate change is a multifaceted issue. climate change affects all sectors, not just industry, transport and energy, for which we have already set rules, but also agriculture, health, science and technology, ict, education, soil, water and land use. all these issues deserve our full attention and effective action. the second main line is that we believe that climate policy must also be social and based on solidarity. we must take account of employment, income and energy poverty. we need to know how and by whom the new technology will be financed. we want to know how many jobs are being created and whether jobs are being lost. we want retraining programmes for the new green poll workers. without a clear social commitment, it is extremely difficult to maintain political support for climate policy. our third main line is the economic crisis. here too we need an integrated approach. the green new deal has become a household word. we wholeheartedly support this. it's going to take a lot of investment. aid operations to banks and companies must have at least a sustainable component. investments in housing and apartment buildings in eastern europe should be given greater priority. that is good for employment, good for energy security and good for the climate. our fourth main point concerns agriculture. we don't usually talk about that when we talk about climate. today we are showing that it is necessary and it has also proved to be a controversial subject. we have had a long discussion about whether agriculture should have binding targets and we agree that we should seriously consider this. it is also clear that agriculture is not only a problem but also a solution. good agriculture, good land use and good use of biomass can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases. our fifth and final point is to involve people. this requires information and transparency. if we want to change our consumption behaviour, we need to know exactly which products are responsible for a lot of greenhouse gases and then we may have to change our consumption patterns. it is not easy, of course, but the problem of climate change - as karl-heinz florenz has just said - cannot be solved by a few technical maneuvers. we will do our utmost to involve as many people as possible in the great challenges we face. local initiatives are very valuable in this respect. free energy audits for homes, better public transportation, local and regional food production. together we can achieve a great deal. ladies and gentlemen, this package of measures gives us cause for optimism. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will contribute to innovation, economic growth, improved energy supply, improved food production, more employment and a more stable climate. i thank all the colleagues and staff who have contributed to this.
on behalf of the ind/dem group it may be an unfortunate time to talk about global warming now, when much of western europe is experiencing a very cold winter. however, as the title of the report indicates, we are looking at the long term in this debate. so we must not be too distracted by short-term events. the final report by mr karl-heinz florenz has been a well thought-out and thorough report, with which we as the european parliament are sending a clear signal. to limit or prevent the negative effects of climate change, strong action is needed in a wide area. hard targets for the period between 2020 and 2050 are needed. no segment of society should be exempt from efforts. in the run-up to the copenhagen climate conference, we will have to maintain our ambition, accompanied by a wide range of measures. this report makes a very valuable contribution to this.
i have had the pleasure of working with mr florenz and all the others on the temporary committee. we have thus laid the foundations for a more integrated and ambitious policy in the future, based on a broad consensus, including here in parliament in the context of the twenty-twenty-twenty objective. the answer lies in greening the economy and making business, households and government more sustainable. businesses seeking support for such an approach - developing sustainable initiatives for green technology - still face a number of obstacles. if they want qualifications for an employee, they run into the policy of the narcotics. the report calls for an integrated approach, including territorial coherence. if you don't, you'll be more expensive in the long run. my amendment on the involvement of regions and cities has fortunately been adopted. next week 150 cities will sign a covenant of mayors with the commission in the parliament buildings. they are taking up the conclusions of this report, close to the citizens and close to the companies. i think that's a good approach. so, support me on this. i do object to the unqualified approach to the agricultural sector in paragraph 189. the epp is right not to be against the consumption of meat. we shall therefore oppose this paragraph. finally, i ask the commission to continue to work more integratedly in the coming period and to use much less sugar. in cooperation with parliament, a major breakthrough can be achieved by combining legislation, incentive policies and decentralized action. there's a lot of profit to be made at that point.
the pvda delegation supports the aim of this directive, which is to make illegal employment a criminal offence, on the one hand to combat illegal work as one of the attractive factors of illegal migration, and on the other hand to prevent and combat the exploitation of migrants. despite some positive elements in this compromise, we felt compelled to vote against it for a number of reasons. first, there was liability from the whole chain down to the main contractor. unfortunately, this was lost in the compromise between the council and parliament. it is now limited to the first link in the outsourcing or subcontracting process. this is counterproductive and encourages further investment and outsourcing to avoid social responsibility. there are also insufficient guarantees that migrants are protected and that workers who make mistakes are punished. migrants are not given the right to receive back pay before being deported, nor the time to wait for the money inside the european union. the chances of this working after deportation are slim to none. an illegal who is a victim of exploitation and wants to fight back is virtually helpless.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the final vote on this report. but this does not prevent me from having serious objections to certain parts. i do not think that the cultivation of fodder crops for intensive livestock farming is detrimental to the climate. nor do i think that there should be a european soil directive on climate change.
for the greens/efa group it took almost a year for eulex to be able to carry out its original mandate. it is good to recall today what that original mandate looked like. the mandate included that eulex, as i said, the largest european mission to date, would be deployed, active throughout kosovo, north and south of the ibar river. it also meant that eulex would take the lead in three areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let alone eulex becoming active and this leading to the country being effectively divided in two, between north and south. none of this was meant to be. for a long time it seemed that the original mandate could not be carried out because of the well-known deadlock in the security council. in fact, it has only been since november last year that it looks like it will work. it is therefore good to see it working now - two or three months after it has actually started - or, let me be careful, that it seems to be working. the kosovo police are pleased with the excellent cooperation with the people of eulex. the customs finally work again, also and especially in the northern part of kosovo, especially at those customs posts that were burned down by kosovo serbs last year. finally, the start has been made to tackle the backlog in a number of cases of inter-ethnic violence and corruption, which once again shows that eulex's activities are in the interest of all communities, not just albanians and not just serbs. what i really hope is that this development of eulex in the last few months will continue in a positive way. i also really hope that serbia, that belgrade, will realise that the current way of constructive cooperation with the european union is much, much more effective than continuing to try to rewrite history. i also hope, and above all, that the kosovo authorities will finally succeed in solving the great pile of problems that still remains. finally, we must tackle the corruption and organized crime which are still far too strong in kosovo. finally, ensuring a sustainable energy supply based on eu rules and finally, getting the kosovo economy off the ground. kosovo is an independent state and whether everyone in this parliament likes it or not, that situation will not be reversed. we, the european union, have an interest in kosovo developing into a viable state. that is why we are there and why we must remain there.
the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i did not get the impression that these different levels always worked together equally well. the european institutions must not shrug their shoulders at this. we're in it together. through the eulex mission, europe is responsible for the situation on the ground. eulex should be more assertive and provide advice and assistance to the kosovo authorities, whether requested or not. i would like to stress two points. first of all, i call on those member states which have not yet recognised kosovo to reconsider this decision. there is no way back for kosovo within the borders of serbia. secondly, i am in favour of a master plan for the western balkans. it is a matter of working with all the countries at a concrete level to prepare them for accession to the european union. that is europe's commitment to the western balkans.
since kosovo declared independence almost a year ago, the european union has been hopelessly divided on the issue. greece has doubts, while spain, romania, slovakia and cyprus reject this independence for internal reasons. the eulex joint project, which the european union hopes to use to gain influence in kosovo, seems to be a means of hiding these internal divisions. eulex may be good for the european union, but is it also good for kosovo? the people of kosovo are interested in early accession to the european union to be an equal member within it. after almost a century of subjugation to serbia, they do not want any new, additional interference from outside. a project like eulex might have played a useful role in preventing possible chaos in the first few months of 2008. that phase is over. the late arrival of eulex now gives the impression that the european union is seeking to turn kosovo into a protectorate with a military presence and administrative influence, as was unsuccessfully done in bosnia-herzegovina. the peaceful and harmonious future of kosovo requires involvement not only of the current government and the ruling parties. the main forces are the self-determination movement vetëvendosje in the south, which sees the european union's actions as useless colonialism, and the representatives of the serbs in the municipalities north of the ibar river, who are doing everything to remain permanently linked to serbia. without these critics of eulex, there will be no lasting solution. a good future for kosovo requires widely accepted internal compromises rather than a demonstration of power by the european union.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr lagendijk on the very balanced resolution he has adopted. i would also like to thank doris pack, who is doing a lot of good work in the area with her delegation. the objectives of the european union are clear: we cannot allow kosovo to become a black hole. the responsibility for this lies first and foremost with the kosovo authorities. the people must have confidence in the administration, but also in the judicial system. corruption and crime are undermining the state. women and minorities must also be able to participate fully. a second responsibility, i believe, lies with the neighbouring countries and, in particular, with the serbian authorities. constructive dialogue and regional cooperation are in the interest of everyone in the region. finally, the european union also has a great responsibility. the european union has invested heavily in eulex. it is good that the real work has now begun. the next two years will have to show whether eulex can continue to make a real difference in the long term. i hope so. stability, reconciliation and the development of the rule of law in kosovo are of great importance to the kosovars and all ethnic minorities in kosovo, but they are also in the interest of the european union. the effectiveness of aid must come first. i was with mrs. pack not long ago. there is no shortage of help, but it could perhaps be increased and coordinated even more.
it was an extremely interesting debate. i fear that such cases will occur in the future. we can never rule out that people are criminals and want to abuse the system. one of the points that has not been discussed this evening is the system of private labels. why does the commission no longer encourage industry to control itself? what they say: we encourage you to self-monitor and develop private quality marks. we shall then check at the end, but it is up to you in the first place to ensure that you check your colleagues and that it does not happen. if you develop a reasonable system, we will encourage and acknowledge it. i think we should encourage the grassroots to ensure that this kind of practice does not happen in the future.
i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf. the liberal group also believes that the compromise reached is a good compromise and we can therefore vote in favour of it later today. the most important thing is that the intellectual property of the feed manufacturers is guaranteed. if we want to have innovation in the sector - we voted yesterday on a climate report - then there is a lot that can be improved in the area of animal feed, so that the emissions of all kinds of gases from livestock are reduced. now, that challenge is ours to take. if feed manufacturers are to innovate, they must not be hindered by overly strict rules on disclosure. i think that this disclosure is guaranteed, as others have said. it could be at the request of the government or of a particular customer. nothing prevents the feed manufacturers from doing this on a voluntary basis. it is not the most important thing to know which ingredients are what they are. far more important is the precise nutritional value of animal feed. this must be indicated correctly. everything on the label, energy, protein, etc., is important. in short, the liberal group will support this compromise. we will also say to the feed manufacturers that if they want to renew their production processes and their feed composition, etc., this compromise is a good compromise which encourages this.
i would like to add my voice to all the compliments already addressed to our rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on animal feed are applied in a uniform manner. this means clear rules on the use and labelling of raw materials. the whole thing must of course remain workable and not lead to more administrative burdens or jeopardize - as has already been said - the intellectual property of the producers. we will continue to monitor this critically, but it seems that the new regulation meets these requirements. i will make a note of that, and that is in the area of control. again, this legislation is subject to proper control and sanctions to separate the wheat from the chaff. the regulation states that the penalties which member states may impose on themselves must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. i call on the european commission to take a critical look at whether this is the case in all the countries of the european union in the future. it is not possible for one country to be more strict than another. i think that the first case in point are the suspended sentences handed down this week, ten years after the belgian dioxin scandal. and finally, a subject which cannot, of course, be left untouched here: the animal meal. after the emotional speech of the first speaker of the unenrolled, i shall confine myself to the facts. animal meal in animal feed has been banned since the bse crisis. in the case of chickens, for example, this leads to a shortage of animal protein in the feed, apart from the justified criticism of the destruction of valuable proteins. in addition, animal feed is the main cost item for the five million farmers in the european union, who are already struggling. of course we do not want to go back to a situation where certain types of animal protein end up in the food. cannibalism, that's it, never again! but to deal with it properly, tests are needed. the european commission has indicated that these tests could be available in 2009, so that animal meal can be safely fed to, for example, chickens or pigs. i would like to hear from the european commission what progress has been made in this area and what steps we can expect to take in the coming year.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to move an oral amendment in the form of an addition to paragraph 64a. that addition reads as follows: ‘where this does not require statehood, for instance in the ilo’. so the last part of paragraph 64a will read as follows: ‘supports taiwan’s participation as an observer in relevant international organisations where this does not require statehood, for instance in the ilo;’. i would ask colleagues not to oppose this oral amendment, because it is important for the socialists to give their support to this resolution, and broad support is very important in order to send a strong signal to the commission and to china.
in writing. - for almost 20 years, this parliament has been a spectator and commentator on the slowly progressing parting of kosovo from serbia. discussions about kosovo here are usually not about kosovo itself, but mainly about the consequences for the outside world. the main arguments put forward by those in favour of and those against independence were that each decision would set a precedent for other areas and that the european union would thereby be able to make itself more important. i have been advocating the opposite for some 30 years, both outside and inside this parliament. democracy requires that we look first and foremost at the needs and desires of the people themselves. they want to see the end of centuries of turkish rule and the last century of serbian rule, and they want to see the end of external coercion. if they cannot join albania, they want real independence. i have been here for the last 10 years advocating a bottom-up politics, seen from the perspective of the poor, the marginalized, the people who suffer from a lack of democracy and public services, the victims of environmental disasters or wars, in short, all the people who are disadvantaged by a lack of equality for all people. i am voting against the eulex project because it does not seek solutions in the interests of the ordinary people of kosovo.
i would remind you that we had a debate here a few years ago on sri lanka and that under those circumstances the sri lankan government was trying to create the space to get as much leeway as possible, also from the european union, to take the position of non-interference rather than mediation to find a solution. i note that all the things i brought up in the debate at the time, out of fear of what would happen in the future, have happened today. so i think we should really return to the position of mediating and seeking autonomy within sri lanka for the tamil population in the north-east. if we do not do this, europe will also be partly responsible for the terrible massacre that is taking place.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the union. oppression and poverty have caused many people to leave the country or to want to leave. the dictatorship is both justified and exacerbated by the ethnic diversity within the country. in large areas, minorities are in the majority. they seek autonomy and organize resistance against the central dictatorship. the military leaders feel that their dictatorship is necessary to hold the country together and to subdue the rebellious peoples. they are more interested in the territory than in the people who live there. the granting of large mining concessions to foreign companies is depriving the indigenous people of important livelihoods and causing serious damage to nature and the environment. the fact that the regional majority peoples are not taken into account further reinforces the need to flee the country. the regime is eager to rid itself of troublesome groups by killing them or driving them out of the country. many flee to the sea in wrecked boats with a high risk of drowning. neighboring thailand has already seen many refugees cross its border. some estimates put the number at two million in the past 25 years. tens of thousands of those who have been refused are homeless in the no man's land along the border. unfortunately, compassion or solidarity with refugees is even less developed in southeast asia than in europe. it is not uncommon for refugees to be sent away, even if it means their certain death. public opinion is too little interested in it, even when it concerns refugees with whom one shares the same religion, such as the muslim boat refugees who arrived in indonesia from burma. we also see that governments give priority to good relations with their colleagues in dictatorships, rather than exerting pressure to improve the situation there. some in europe are inclined to the same kind of attitude and in asia we can see the horrors that this leads to. it is also for this reason that we should call on the asian countries to find a solution.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. paragraph 25 of the present saryusz-wolski report therefore welcomes the extension of the mandate of the eu police mission in the palestinian territories. i have recently come across some very unfavourable reports on public security in the west bank, for example extortion by members of the palestinian security apparatus who operate at night as mafia leaders or even the names of members of terrorist groups on the payroll of the palestinian authority. council and commission, are these reports accurate? is it fiction? in short, how is the eu police mission in the palestinian territories actually progressing at the moment? because that's what's essential. if they are seeking a viable palestinian state, then first of all there should be law and order in the west bank.
madam president, the cfsp has become almost everything, so you can say almost everything in a debate like this. in the past we discussed only security issues and now we even discuss climate change, energy etc. therefore, i have to be selective and say something about eu-us relations and about the disarmament agenda, which i think we can move forward this year. the new administration has made a very positive start, also symbolically by the announcement to close down guantánamo. i think we should work on this issue and try to work together to solve some of the problems with which the americans are confronted. the second basic debate this year will be about economic security: are the united states and europe able together to do things about the crisis or will they try to do it on their own, which will mean a rapid development of protectionist measures? afghanistan is also an important issue. will we be able to match the increased efforts of the americans or not, and under what conditions? there, the positive sign is that the americans have said that they are aware that there should be a political solution as this cannot be solved in a military way. this brings the european union in immediately . then on the disarmament agenda: last december, mr solana, you gave a very good speech here in parliament on your ideas and those of the council and the union on promoting an agenda that is positive, by starting to support the americans and the russians to renegotiate the start treaty and to work with the americans on the ratification of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. we will also be in favour of the removal of the remaining technical nuclear weapons in europe and it would be helpful in supporting ideas to bring the fuel cycle under international control in order to make sure that countries that want to develop nuclear energy have peaceful access but will not be able to abuse that militarily. we would like the european union to support this kind of agenda, knowing that president obama has ambitions. in his inaugural speech, when he talked about foreign affairs, he first mentioned iraq and afghanistan, but then he mentioned his ambitions to do something about nuclear disarmament.
- i'm the reporter. - i am also glad that mr deva has taken his seat, because now mrs ferrero-waldner can simply listen to me, i am really relieved. the unprecedented economic crisis that is gripping us is a new disaster for developing countries. the crisis is leading to falling commodity prices, less investment, less trade credit, less money being sent home by migrants. the gross national product of every prosperous country is falling, and this is also reducing the budget for development cooperation, because it is 0.7% of gross national product, or at least it should be, and most countries are not keeping that promise. this is the context of the discussion on the new policy instrument that is being discussed here. when spanish students study in latin america for a few months on a scholarship and vice versa, such an exchange is useful, necessary and desirable, but such a project cannot be financed exclusively with money earmarked for poverty reduction. it is fine that eu money is going to it, but poverty reduction is not. it's frustrating to scrap these kinds of projects just because there's no legal way to support them. we have therefore sought a modest instrument which would enable the eu to implement policies in developing countries which are not strictly poverty-fighting. we must find another source of funds, another legal basis than development policy. the legal basis cannot therefore be found in article 179 of the treaty of nice, because that is precisely the legal basis of development policy and it must be avoided here. article 179 does not allow the interests of the eu itself - european students who travel for study purposes - to be financed. in addition, the eu must legally comply with the criteria for development cooperation, namely poverty reduction, when spending development money. with a little creativity, there are other sources. the extension of the industrialized countries instrument is a possibility proposed by the committee on foreign affairs and also supported by my committee. but what is also possible is a combination of articles 150, 151 and 170, education, culture and research. with this combined legal basis, the european parliament has full co-decision power over this instrument and the money, some eur 13 million at present, is not coming from the development envelope. it is not coming from the foreign policy envelope either. i cannot as rapporteur - and the committee on development and cooperation supports me in this - agree with article 179 as a legal basis. this new instrument would be useless, since its aim is precisely to avoid the use of development funds for other purposes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore urge the epp group to withdraw its amendment. it is contrary to our shared desire to protect the development cooperation budget, even in times of economic crisis.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am not a lawyer, and i am not well versed in law, but i know that one should avoid stretching the interpretation of legal texts. that is my fear if we use article 181a, because it talks about economic and technical cooperation, whereas we are talking about students who go abroad on exchanges between universities. it is a bit hazardous. i am not against this if the commission sees it as a way out for the non-oda activities we all deem necessary and important, and i will go along with it. perhaps i am concerned because i am a journalist. i like texts and i take words seriously, which is the essence of europe – its humanism, taking texts seriously and taking language seriously. you have to be very careful when using words, so article 181a is a maybe, but i am not very happy about it. i was happy, however, with the comment made by mairead mcguinness, to the effect that she needed to be convinced. she is irish, she has her convictions and she is firm in her principles, as indeed we all are. if it is impossible tomorrow to reach agreement on the right legal basis, then i would prefer to refer this back to my committee and to take time to decide on a proper legal basis, because we all know that non-oda actions are necessary. i thank the commission for its comment that non-oda actions will, over time, become more and more important in developing countries and in middle-income countries, etc. we all agree on their necessity, and we all agree on the need to find a legal basis. some of us agree that article 179 is not the basis we are looking for. if i cannot reach agreement with the ppe-de group before we vote tomorrow at noon – which will be a pity – i shall ask for a referral back to my committee. i am ready to do that and i will do so when the amendment is voted on tomorrow. i would be very sorry if this is the position of the ppe-de group, because we all agree on the need to maintain development aid at the level it is today, and we all know that it is shrinking with the economic crisis.
- i'm the reporter. - the report on the reduced vat rates has had a bit of a strange turn of events. there is no longer a report because the other two large groups, the epp group and the alde group, voted against my report in the committee on economic affairs and voted against it without any warning because they did not like the rejection or acceptance of one or another amendment. in doing so, they have seriously jeopardized support for this important commission proposal. i very much regret that, because it has given a very wrong impression of the position of the european parliament. fortunately, they have reversed their course and have now indicated their full support for the commission's proposal. the agreement was that we would no longer debate these amendments in the plenary, but would say a loud and clear 'yes' to commissioner kovács's proposal. unfortunately, mrs lulling has felt that, although this is not in line with the text of the legislative resolution and the procedure we follow, she should have to table her rejected amendments again. here in parliament there is apparently a variation of the latin saying 'quod licet iovi, non licet bovi', that what is not allowed to an ordinary member of parliament is allowed to mrs lulling. without diminishing her divine status, all i can say is: i would ask you not to be distracted by this and to vote in full support of the legislative resolution in the final vote. that's what it's all about, in the end. i am counting on your support, together with the commissioner, and i assume that mrs lulling also understands that if she withdraws her support for that resolution because she is not getting her way, she is far from home and will give the wrong suggestion that she is against a low vat rate. this parliament - and i am very proud of it - has a long tradition of supporting proposals to apply a reduced rate of vat to labour-intensive services. in fact, this parliament itself took the lead, at the initiative of one of my predecessors, wim van velzen, at the luxembourg employment summit in 1997. there parliament has put forward the proposal to use that low vat rate as a stimulus for employment, by making those services cheaper, by making them more diminished, but also by bridging the gap between undeclared and legal work. i think that the employment objective is very important at this particular moment. i firmly believe that the experiment has absolutely proved its effect. the former commissioner bolkestein was less convinced and, like a number of member states, was sceptical. he did not want to use employment as a tax policy objective, he felt that tax policy was not designed to do that. fortunately, the current commissioner has understood that this has to be seen in a wider context and i am very pleased that he is now making this experiment structural. one more thing about the news. i cannot imagine, frankly, that in the present situation the council would not give its unanimous support to this proposal. they are very keen to do something about the dramatic employment situation and to help the european economy recover. tax measures, such as reducing vat in, for example, housing construction and renovation, in making housing and cultural heritage more energy efficient and more efficient, and all sorts of other things, can give a boost to the housing market, which is now very tight. for the sake of clarity, it is not the epp amendment of the imco committee that emphasizes the point of energy saving. that was already in the commission proposal. it was only first deleted in amendment no 6 and then re-introduced in amendment no 7: that can only create confusion. it is clear, however, that parliament is strongly in favour of energy conservation. we therefore hope that the council will accept commissioner kovács's proposal and that we will not be left in internal turmoil today in this important vote.
rapporteur. − madam president, i am happy with this debate. we have almost unanimous support for the commission’s proposal and i hope that will encourage the commissioner to have follow-up discussions with the council on this issue. i also noticed that many of my colleagues have indicated that they would like their governments to use this instrument nationally in the present crisis. i would like to emphasise once again, particularly regarding energy efficiency and renovation of buildings, that this is a very good instrument. i hope that even the council will try to coordinate activities on this and decide that together they will take these measures, because then it would be an extra boost, an extra impulse, for the economy. we have a task at national level to convince our national colleagues and our national governments that they should use these more targeted and more effective instruments in the present situation in order to create more employment – not only to save jobs but also to create new jobs – to legalise the shadow economy and to make these local services available to the many consumers and citizens who will be feeling the effects of the crisis. i think it is an excellent instrument and i very much hope that the council will accept this decision and maybe – even more – coordinate and decide to apply this instrument.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to refer this report back to committee under rule 168(2). both this democratically elected parliament and the european commission see the necessity to cover some modest forms of cooperation between the eu and developing countries, actions that are not strictly speaking poverty alleviation, such as exchange programmes between universities here and there. the budget for development is not meant for this kind of cooperation, but some members insist on using a legal base that would lead us to finance these actions with the development budget while that is precisely what we seek to avoid with this report. we did not reach an agreement. if amendment 1 is adopted, then this report would become incoherent and contrary to the interests of the world’s poorest people. i consider, therefore, that we should refer this report back to the committee on development in order to agree on a legal base having the support of a clear majority of this house.
in writing. − the ability for european citizens to work and live in another member state is an important right and i support the intentions to facilitate the mobility of professionals and to guarantee the safety of consumers. however, there are aspects of the cederschiöld report that i do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market. regarding the inclusion of healthcare professionals in the agreement, i see a risk of deregulation of the healthcare sector. therefore i abstained on final vote on the report.
in writing. − even though there are elements in the cia resolution such as welcoming the eu-us agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition which i am very critical of, i still voted in favour of the resolution, to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
in writing. − nato played an important role during the cold war between 1949 and 1989. its official task was to defend the common territory of the member states against foreign invasion, without any action of its own outside that territory. the justification was the defence of a pluralist democracy against dictatorship, but in practice it was mainly about protecting a capitalist economy against a socialist economy. the right-wing dictatorships in portugal and greece were allowed to participate, bilateral agreements existed with a similar dictatorship in spain and the french colony of algeria was forced to belong to nato territory until 1962. with the disappearance of the soviet union and the warsaw pact, that nato has lost its raison d'être. its continued existence poses a problem for the eu because six member states choose military neutrality. the current nato is still more a 'coalition of the willing' around the usa than an extension of the eu. this year, on the occasion of nato's 60th anniversary, we shall have to decide what role nato will claim in the future. if it is the world's policeman, carrying out its own projects apart from the united nations with the aim of benefiting the most economically powerful states, then this organization is harmful and unnecessary. that is why i am against it.
in writing. the mediterranean is the southern border of the eu. for many years, the eu has been seeking close cooperation with non-eu coastal states, some of which will never be able to join the eu. this cooperation is considered important in southern europe but is of much less importance for the rest of europe. however, there are no deep differences of opinion on this because no one rejects good relations at the external borders. the commission has recently taken steps, particularly at the initiative of france, to further intensify this cooperation, including the setting up of separate permanent structures. the question is what is the purpose of that. is it an attempt to get closer to the dictatorships in syria and libya, which are constantly violating human rights? is it an attempt to find an alternative to the full eu membership promised in the long term to the riparian states of croatia, montenegro, albania and turkey? is it a means of further strengthening ties with israel, despite the fact that, as a result of the election result on 10 february, israeli cooperation in the creation of a palestinian neighbouring state with equal rights cannot be expected for the next four years? i cannot support this proposal for the time being.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, perhaps you will allow me, firstly, to say something in reaction to the commission’s statement. firstly, i regret that the commissioner's colleague, mr mccreevy, is not here – i think the horse racing season may have started again! i really regret it because the subject of company law is really important for us and is at the heart of his portfolio. secondly, commissioner, i really regret your arguments against parliament’s proposals on the co-determination of employees. we clearly stated that this is not meant for small companies, but that the spe statute is available for all companies. it is not restricted to size. we do not want this spe statute to be a way of abusing and circumventing existing legislation – particularly in national traditions – something which is a very important aspect of co-determination. we do not want ‘shopping around’ to exist and a new delaware to be created in the european union, where companies can circumvent this type of legislation. thirdly, regarding the fourteenth directive – which we know mr mccreevy is not very much in favour of – you repeated the same arguments he put forward. he should take seriously the fact that parliament really wants him to present this proposal. fourthly, we tabled a resolution together to ask the commission to consult the social partners on the basis of article 138. this would have been proper before we decided on a regulation concerning the spe, because co-determination is an issue which is dealt with under article 138 of the ec treaty and which first requires a consultation of social partners. this has not been done. we now ask for it to be done immediately afterwards. however, if i hear this type of reaction from the commission, i will seriously reconsider and suggest to my group that we reconsider whether we can support the spe product. perhaps you should make some phone calls tonight to mr mccreevy and mr špidla and see whether tomorrow you can present a better proposal on this before the vote. briefly – because i am now using up my speaking time – the pse’s position is not against the chance for small and medium-sized enterprises to get this new statute – we are in favour of that – but it is against this form of abuse. we found a very good compromise with the rapporteur. it is also very up-to-date and is not at all obsolete, but very topical at this time, considering the disastrous workings of shareholders and financial markets, to consider a better way of governance for companies, in which employees have a part. commissioner, you really have to consider with your college and with the commissioners in charge whether you can make a more positive statement to the parliament.
madam president, it is a pity that mr toubon is leaving the room, because i wanted to respond to an accusation he made concerning our compromise: namely that it requires new heavy burdens on smes. in fact, in the compromise, the status quo is being resettled for mergers, divisions of companies and transfers of seats. regarding new companies starting from scratch, there is a fairly high threshold for companies with fewer than 500 employees. those with between 500 and 1 000 employees have exactly what is in the other directives. one cannot say that this is making the status quo even heavier; it is making it lighter. in this consultation with the social partners, we want to look at simplification and a better system which is harmonised all over the eu.
- i'm the reporter. - the report by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the implementation of the eighth directive on statutory audits of annual accounts; it is good that parliament is paying more attention to the implementation and transposition of legislation adopted here. we can agree on the most fantastic rules here, but if they are not implemented and respected in the member states, we are sitting here doing our work for nothing. the transposition of the eighth directive has also been marred by many failures. central definitions are interpreted differently and there is no independent public oversight in all states. the report calls on the commission to take swift action to correct these shortcomings. we also wonder whether the harmonisation method of minimum harmonisation is the right one to achieve a uniform application of key concepts. perhaps we should start thinking about whether, when it comes to these kinds of central definitions, we should not choose another method of harmonization which is not open to many interpretations. finally, mr president, the report deals with the commission's recommendation on the limitation of the civil liability of auditors. if further measures are needed to achieve convergence in europe, we welcome the commission's proposals. the objective must and will remain that we strive for effective and independent auditing. the economic crisis has taught us that strict control and supervision are indispensable.
i would like to thank mr schwab for his efforts, because he was simply put against the wall during the trialogue. in the days when i was studying european law, codecision was clearly something different from what it is today. the first reading agreement which is now in place and which has been negotiated by four colleagues - including myself as shadow rapporteur - is very different from the text adopted by parliament. it is different from what the commission has proposed, and the economic crisis has been used to make a very bad proposal. everyone complains that it is too little, and yet it seems to be accepted. we in the liberal group believe that democracy and the role of parliament are being eroded. if the text adopted by parliament at first reading has not been incorporated into the trialogue negotiations, then a second reading will eventually be necessary, because that is how it works. we also think it is a bad sign that if four members of the trialogue agree to it, then the text is also supported by everyone in this house. the liberals will vote against this proposal on grounds of principle. this will be mainly for procedural reasons and not because we think the content is bad; it could be a lot better.
president. - mr president, our industry is important for the economy, but it also often leads to pollution of the air, water and soil. the european union has been tackling this form of environmental pollution for decades, and recently the focus has been on co2 and climate change in environmental policy. sometimes it seems that this is the only environmental problem. al gore has clearly left his mark. the danger, however, is that environmental problems are reduced to climate change. however, we face many more challenges in environmental policy. the creation of jobs is also threatened by the emission of air pollutants, 40 to 80% of which are caused by large industrial installations. the ippc directive is therefore a good way of protecting the environment. we have discussed the proposals in detail in the committee on the environment and have reached an acceptable compromise on many points. i do not think the report is good enough on the emission standards for large combustion plants alone. this is where the greatest environmental benefits are to be found. i have therefore tabled a few additional amendments. for example, the emission standards for power stations should be about as strict as those for waste incineration plants, especially when we consider that power stations also incinerate waste. in addition, i propose to close a loophole in the law. gassing, which is similar to ordinary combustion, must meet the same emission standards. recent case law has shown that this is not the case. the legislation must therefore be reformed.
the new ippc directive requires companies to equip all large installations with the best available technology. in some countries this has already been made mandatory, and it is now time to draw a line and create a level playing field. so that's fine. but, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you in particular to support the amendments which lead to future requirements for coal-fired power stations. there should be an emission ceiling for coal-fired power stations, either by using ccs or by using 40 to 50% renewable biomass. a cap on co2 emissions is the only way we can both continue to use coal and meet our climate goals. some colleagues object to the fact that the electricity sector is covered by the new trading system and that new requirements are therefore unnecessary. but that is not the case, because the ets allows for exceptions for coal-fired power stations and also allows energy-intensive industry to recoup the higher cost of more expensive electricity. so the price incentive to reduce co2 is gone. if you think the ets will solve everything, you don't need to make demands on cars, you don't need to ban light bulbs and you don't need a directive on renewable energy. we have to be consistent. if we have to make demands on cars and lighting, then we should certainly make demands on coal-fired power stations, because they are the real polluters. it is also a fact that easy co2 reductions are not to be found in the steel or cement industry, but in the energy sector.
in writing. - today i voted against the proposal by mr catania on the future of a common european asylum policy. my party, the socialist party of the netherlands, does not believe that harmonization of asylum policy and the creation of an agency to deal with it in the future will lead to a more equal distribution of the number of asylum applications across the various member states. asylum applications are more likely to be determined by the presence of family members and acquaintances in certain member states, which attracts new asylum seekers. i also believe that harmonisation will lead to a lower quality of asylum policy in countries where it is currently relatively well regulated, because member states will use the drawdown to seek the lowest possible level. such a race to the bottom is undesirable and will ultimately affect only the asylum seekers. as much as i appreciate the efforts of mr catania, i cannot support his conclusions here.
in writing. - this afternoon we voted on the statute for the european private company. i voted against the proposal in the end for the following reasons: firstly, i believe that this proposal increases legal uncertainty in the european union. the relationship between the national bv and the european bv, between the applicable national law and the text of the regulation is not sufficiently clear. how is circumvention of useful national legislation prevented? how does the proposal relate to consumer protection? such questions are not answered satisfactorily. we have also voted today on another report by mr lehne. in this report, it makes recommendations for improving the transfrontier relocation of company headquarters. i think this is a much better idea than the european company idea. if the commission were to make efforts to make crossborder seat transfers easier, with less red tape, the whole proposal would be superfluous for the european company.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the safety of ships. this is largely due to the fact that you, commissioner tajani, together with your officials and we as the european parliament have set out to persuade the council to really get serious about a number of crucial points which were so important to parliament. because we must have european cooperation to improve maritime safety. we have now fortunately closed a number of missing links, although we as a parliament would have liked to have gone a step further on a number of points. it is a good thing that in the case of major accidents at sea, independent accident investigation has now become mandatory, because in this way the cause of accidents can really be traced. the airline industry has a lot of experience with that. last week a turkish airlines plane crashed in the netherlands near amsterdam and within a week, thanks to an independent accident investigation, the cause was discovered and speculation put to an end. independent accident investigation, independent of the question of fault; it's really a win that we now have that for shipping. the rapporteur has done an excellent job on this point. i would like to highlight another point in this package, mr president, namely that there should be better regulation of liability for passengers at sea. it is good that inland waterway transport is not included, because small inland vessels cannot be treated in the same way as seagoing vessels. it's not the same. and it is good that this has been confirmed in the proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, our rapporteur, the honourable mr saïd el khadraoui, began by saying something reassuring. no european tax is to be imposed. no, mr rapporteur, it is a question of the rules of the game for the internal market, which are intended to make sustainable transport more possible in europe. but the position you choose as rapporteur gives member states a free hand to pay very high taxes, up to a few euros per kilometre. the congestion charge on top, the mark-up on top. the commissioner has said that this is not a matter of rules for the internal market, but of obstacles to the internal market. the ppe group would like to make its position clear here today. we are strongly in favour of investing in sustainable transport. the transfer of external costs for air pollution and noise pollution can therefore be counted on our approval if the proceeds - and this is widely supported - are also invested in making road transport cleaner. but the proposed congestion charge and mark-up is a bridge too far for the ppe-de. a congestion charge has a very limited environmental impact, while congestion is not being solved and the congestion charge is creating an extra burden, an extra burden for smes in this time of economic crisis, and that is bad for employment. the rapporteur has reached a compromise with the liberals by linking up with passenger transport, which was crucial to winning their support. the council - and this is already clear - will not accept that. so that puts the rapporteur in a position which he himself would like to see, but the liberals do not. i therefore want to end on behalf of the ppe-de group with an old saying: "we may be losing this battle, but that doesn't mean we've lost the war".
the abolition of customs frontiers and exchange rates within europe has led to an expansion of the economy. the government is providing a dense network of ever-widening highways. many goods are now moved over long distances, sometimes even at different stages of the production process. these developments have negative effects on the environment. the cost of these shall not be borne by the transport undertaking. this has helped to make freight transport cheaper over the years. this again calls for more transport and further increases the environmental burden. in the almost ten years that i have been a member of this parliament, there has been much talk of attributing this environmental damage to traffic, but unfortunately it has not yet been sufficiently successful. sometimes it seems that politicians are more interested in computational models than in the results we can achieve with them. previous decision-making on this issue in 2006 yielded too little. as far as my group is concerned, the aim must be to give more opportunities to the most environmentally friendly modes of transport by rail and water and to curb the most environmentally harmful modes by road and by air. in the absence of such a clear objective, calculation models and more european rules will only create red tape and will not benefit people and the environment. my country, the netherlands, is an example of how not to do it. there has been a debate for almost 20 years about charging for distance travelling. the debate has now come to a complete standstill. the only impression left on the voters is that congestion is being taxed without that perspective, that the problems are solved by improving railways and public transport. europe must not repeat the mistakes of the member states. we must remove all obstacles to regional and national measures, ensure that they are well coordinated, improve cross-border toll payments and better inform professional drivers about what measures they can expect outside their own area of residence. the proposals of the rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, provide the means for this and are therefore supported by my group. the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, also calls for special attention to be paid to noise pollution from rail freight traffic. we agree with him, but at the same time i would point out that the construction of ever higher noise barriers along the railway tracks cannot be the solution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am quite satisfied with the result and very satisfied with the cooperation with the rapporteur. it is good that member states are given the opportunity to pass on the external costs to the polluter. let us not hesitate to pass the costs of traffic jams, air pollution and noise pollution on to the consumer. i do believe that member states should retain the room for variation in costs. in addition, the charges imposed must be clearly and transparently traceable to the actual costs. we cannot allow member states to introduce a kind of criminal tax. amendment no 40 will therefore have to be deleted from the report. i would also like to hear from the council whether it agrees with parliament that the proceeds of the eurovignette should be used to reduce external costs. this is a key point for me to be able to agree to the eurovignette directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals. trucks are not the only cause of congestion on the road. other modalities also generate external costs. with the exception of maritime and air transport, which is covered by an emissions trading system, these carriers will also have to pay their external costs. we are thus fairly encouraging cleaner transport companies. i should also like to take this opportunity to ask for support for my amendment no 76. i do not understand why the commission has decided to change the old text of the administrative charge on all urban roads. the imposition of such administrative charges is a national competence. it is for the member states to determine the roads on which they wish to impose such an administrative charge, provided, of course, that it is non-discriminatory. i therefore propose to reinstate the old 2006 text and ask for your support. finally, i would point out that it is of the utmost importance that the commission ensures that member states do not use this directive to impose unjustifiably high charges on freight transport. the commission must take its task under article 11 (1) very seriously. if a member state goes too far in the calculation of the external-cost charge or the maximum value, the commission must take strong action against that member state.
the only reason, mr president, - at least for me - to take this proposal seriously at all is that it creates a european framework within which the member states can operate, which ultimately benefits the internal market. the green paper is a good example of this. the sectoral driving bans in austria are a good example of this. we've come a long way to get here. however, some sensitive points remain the subject of debate. let me be clear: the possibility of a congestion charge for road freight transport is unacceptable to me, and i also regard the removal of the so-called ear tags as a no-go. my colleague dirk sterckx said it before: if it turns out on second reading that there is no majority in this house and in the council for these views, the liberal proposal is off the table. road freight transport is an important engine of our economy. let us not lose sight of this fact - and especially not now. and let me end, too - particularly in the direction of the ppe-de - with an old dutch proverb: "the tactics of an elephant in a china box rarely have the desired effect".
president, now that the original deadline for the lisbon strategy is coming to an end, it can be said that the objectives set by the heads of government in 2000 have not been sufficiently achieved. but it is particularly with the current economic crisis that it is of the utmost importance that the lisbon strategy is taken seriously. if that had happened, europe would probably have been better able to respond with resilience to economic setbacks. one of the main agreements of the lisbon strategy is the aim of spending 3% of gdp on research and development: two thirds of the funding is provided by the private sector and one third by the public sector. that is a target that is being met by virtually no country in the european union, and that is a brake on innovation in the european union. in a global crisis europe will have to find the strength to bring the economy back on track. at the same time, it is of course strange that a large part of the eu budget is subsidising agriculture and regional funds, for example - so still too much of the old economy - while the targets for investment in research are not being met. there are plenty of possibilities. think of clean environmental or medical technologies or the growing sector of, say, european computer games. here, targeted support is effective. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). that's just what you need to crawl out of the valley. the crisis gives us the opportunity and even the duty to implement much-needed reforms. i call on the member states to take their own commitments seriously, because when big goals are set, there must be the intention to achieve them. otherwise the european union will lose its credibility. a common policy requires everyone to do their best and does not allow member states to go off the rails.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. it is precisely in this time of crisis that cohesion policy has its value in terms of community investment. we are now investing some 50 billion euros a year, and 65% of that is going to the priority areas in the lisbon agreements. we are making an active contribution, training workers and taking all kinds of regional initiatives for the years after the crisis. the ppe-de wants to maintain this integrated financial approach and not further fragment it. the flexibility is aimed at speeding up spending schedules, simplifying approval and facilitating the handling of preparatory costs, substantially expanding the eib's capacity with concrete programmes, including sustainable urban regeneration, and increasing energy efficiency opportunities, including in the old member states. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome these intensifications and flexibility. in march ii we will have a priority debate in this plenary on the adjustments to cohesion policy. we will therefore amend the regulations governing the funds and lay the foundations for a new cohesion formula: territorial cohesion, the framework for the period after 2013. we are investing - i have just heard that too - in high-quality activities such as clusters, r & d, innovation, rural development, and we are making sure that the knowledge economy and competitiveness in europe are given a boost. this applies, ladies and gentlemen, to all regions, to all member states. this will help to keep europe visible and contribute to a more united europe, even after the crisis.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). after all, economic growth and low inflation offered room for reform. reforms have been and remain necessary in competition with emerging economies. the current crisis shows that member states that have responded to that call are now doing better than others. these other member states have large budget deficits, and the widening of these deficits by the member states which did not heed our call is now threatening the stability of our currency. i would ask the commission to ensure that the member states comply with the stability pact. this is the only way to avoid the costs of this crisis getting out of hand. temporary incentives that meet the sustainability test can therefore be applied on a limited scale. in addition to all the new plans, the observance of old agreements is evident.
mr president, this crisis is a test for europe. citizens now expect europe to act, and it is therefore incomprehensible that many national leaders continue to be stuck in a 'every man for himself' policy. europe is not the sum of 27 times the national interest. it would also be a capital mistake to divide europe into east and west. mr president, the liberals want to invest in the future, not in the mistakes of yesterday. the objectives of the lisbon strategy should not be put on hold, but rather we should focus more on education and research, innovation, sustainability and a strong european market. mr president, bankers who squander our money are despicable. but, mr schulz, politicians who now allow deficits and debts to mount unchecked and pass the bill on to younger generations are just as irresponsible. the alde group supports the core message of the ferrera report. only with truly european and forward-looking solutions can we overcome this crisis. it is now or never for europe.
the european parliament must play a watchdog role in this period of economic crisis. a watchdog function when it comes to preventing protectionism. together we have created the single market. this single market has brought us great prosperity. not only in western europe, but also in central europe, the countries have benefited greatly from this. we must not let these gains slip away with the first headwind. we must fight as a european parliament proposals such as those to support the french car industry, which would be detrimental to other european countries. parliament must also play a watchdog role when it comes to the strength of the euro. we cannot accept that countries accumulate their national debt indefinitely. we have agreed in europe on the so-called stability and growth pact. we know that the financial crisis has meant that we have had to give more room to the banks to support them temporarily. but this has to be an exception. other sectors of the economy should not be given structural support. the member states do not have the money for this, and if they were to borrow in eurobonds, future generations would be burdened with debt and the euro would be weakened. i'm against it. in short, we must be a watchdog when it comes to fighting protectionism and protecting the value of the euro.
- a writer. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this report. i have here presented a critical but fair assessment of the progress made by turkey in 2008. it is a report with many points, a mirror for turkey, and only one clear message, namely that for the third consecutive year too little has been done in terms of political reforms. political reforms, meeting the copenhagen criteria, that is an absolute priority. it's not about opening chapters. it is about what unites the european citizens, the rule of law, an independent and impartial judiciary, freedom of expression, a well-functioning press, individual citizenship for every citizen. mr president, more needs to be done on these points and when all that has been done, political chapters will also be opened. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the middle east. the turkish government has told its own citizens that it is necessary to modernise turkey. this requires reforms of the political criteria, because in order to build a socially oriented market economy, people must be given the opportunity to express their creativity, all citizens must have the same rights. that is why the political criteria are now central to our report. we've been with the foreign affairs committee, with the gpc, with everybody there; i got the feeling and also a glimmer of hope that something was changing. commissioner rehn, you have said that too. ten years ago, i could not have imagined that there would be tv broadcasts in kurdish. that too is set out in the report. i have also greatly appreciated the positive role of turkey in the caucasus. i have expressed my appreciation for the first steps towards opening the borders with the armenians, because the armenians too must be freed from the isolation in which they now find themselves. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. these are all positive elements and i hope very much that turkey will now take up the reforms with great diligence with the new negotiator. a modern and prosperous turkey is of the utmost importance to the turkish people, but - and i say this in every member state in europe - it is also of the utmost importance to all of us in the european union. president. - i have a few additional remarks. we often hear that freedom of the press leaves much to be desired and that the press, when it exercises its freedoms, is subject to retrospective taxation or other measures. this has to change. finally, there is one more point, namely the amendments tabled. i would ask the socialist group to please not do it, to accept the report as it stands. if there are improvements to be made, i agree, but there should be no extra things to be asked. that is not necessary and will only lead to polarization in this house.
the european union is not a single entity, but it is a single entity. public opinion in the existing member states is now much less positive about this. this has a lot to do with differences in wealth and in the level of wages, differences that can lead to more labour migration from poorer member states to richer member states. the problem of the visa requirements hated in the countries of the former yugoslavia is also closely linked to this fear. the result is that many of the inhabitants of these countries, who had easy access to the present member states of the european union until 1992, now have difficulty in visiting our countries. that's got to change. as candidate countries strive to become full members of the european union as soon as possible, they may make mistakes. to that end, macedonia passed new legislation in 2008 at an unusually fast pace, which is not in keeping with our conventional notions of careful democratic decision-making. the opposition, various non-governmental organisations and individual citizens complain in several cases of inadequate administration. they feel that the largest governing party takes more freedom than is appropriate in a pluralistic society, where democracy means more than just holding elections. there is criticism of the police's failure to register complaints from citizens. there is outrage over the demonstration arrest of the mayor of the city of strumitsa and other politicians. i propose that we adopt those criticisms in the morning. there is every reason to say openly that all is not well. however, we must recognize that macedonia is not worse off than other states during their accession negotiations and sometimes even after their accession. if accession negotiations with macedonia start now, it will take at least until 2017 before it can become a member. a year ago parliament voted in favour of my proposal to open these negotiations as soon as possible. the disruption of the parliamentary elections has since become an argument for waiting until the presidential and municipal elections, which are due to take place soon. further delay has two major disadvantages: the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been active in the fight against organized crime. everyone knows that the name macedonia without the addition is met with insuperable objections from greece. for greece, this neighbouring country is north macedonia, upper macedonia, vardar macedonia or skopje macedonia. this is a significantly more positive position than the one before 2006, when greece wanted to avoid any use of the name macedonia for its northern neighbours. greece has a much greater interest than other member states in seeing this northern neighbour join the european union as soon as possible. the two countries must agree on a solution as soon as possible. the alternative is for both states to wait for the other state to make a major concession first, but that other state cannot be the only one to go head-on against domestic public opinion. we must not allow a situation to develop in which people are going to vote in referendums that they do not want to compromise with their neighbours. unless a compromise is found, my successors as rapporteur will have to report annually for decades that progress is not possible. finally, mr president, the other bilateral disagreement between slovenia and croatia must also be resolved quickly. croatia should be able to become a full member state in 2011. state aid to shipbuilding should not be an obstacle if other member states are allowed to grant state aid to their banks or their automotive industries. the employment situation in pula, rijeka and split must be maintained.
i would like to make a few comments on the excellent report by my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, on turkey. my group endorses the main conclusion of the report, namely that too little progress has been made in recent times. it is true that 2008 was a turbulent year for turkish politics and that turbulence may have led to some reforms not being carried out, and the process as such has come to a partial standstill. now that those problems in turkey have been partially resolved, we hope that the government, on the basis of the plans it has put on the table, will speed up what is necessary to keep the negotiating process with the european union credible. i would like to refer in particular to the national reform programme adopted by the present government. our group will of course continue to support the negotiations with turkey, and the negotiations are about membership of the european union as far as we are concerned, even if we should have no illusions about the complexity of that process and its possible duration. but it cannot be that the impetus comes only from turkey. we must also remain a reliable partner in this process. turkey is of strategic importance to the european union, particularly because of our energy supply and everything connected with it, and we in the pse group are in favour of opening the energy chapter in the negotiating process. but in the end turkey will have to do the bulk of the work itself, and there are also many points in the ria oomen-ruijten report which we have looked at critically and which we must continue to look at critically. i should like to highlight a few points from that excellent report. freedom of expression must be guaranteed. we're still not happy with what's going on there. recently there has been an internet action around armenia and the genocide; the way in which the authorities are reacting to this is an infringement of that freedom. it is very important, and we want to repeat it again and again, and we as the european parliament must not leave any doubt about it, that we will never accept the islamization of turkey, that we will only be able to accept it on the basis of its secular character as it is now enshrined in the constitution. i would like to make one final comment. commissioner rehn has spoken with a certain optimism about the negotiations on cyprus. i think we should do nothing, but we should also do nothing to make the success of these talks possible, and we should also call on turkey not to do anything that could hamper these processes, these talks, because the parties must be able to negotiate freely about how they want to shape their common future. i can only say that i hope that commissioner rehn's optimism is justified.
i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is a good report in general, which sums up the remaining problems well and, if there is progress, it says so. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. i would like to take this opportunity to look back on five years of eu-turkey relations in this parliament. the year 2004, five years ago, was actually, in retrospect, the golden year of the reforms that really brought turkey closer to the eu. the strange thing, and frankly a bit sad, is that since 2004 the pace of reform has been too slow, that the willingness in the european union to give turkey a fair chance has actually decreased, and that the enthusiasm for membership has waned in turkey. all the reports of parliament over the years have made clear parliament's priorities for key reforms. first, freedom of speech. yes, the well-known article 301 has been changed, but the situation is still unsatisfactory. it is very regrettable that websites such as youtube are still not accessible in turkey, and there is unacceptable pressure from the government on some of the media. secondly, the kurdish problem. in 2007, there was great hope that after the accession of the kurdish nationalist party dtp, a solution would be found between the dtp and the akp. unfortunately, that did not happen. thirdly, religious minorities. yes, there is the law on foundations, which offers a solution for some minorities, but unfortunately for a large muslim minority, the alevis, there is still no solution. despite all this insufficient progress, there is still a majority in this parliament in favour of accession. i think the message from this debate and from the debates over the last five years should be to the turkish government that despite the inadequacy of the reforms, that support will only continue if new reform proposals are made really quickly in all three areas. in this respect, i share in part the commissioner's optimism about kurdish television, about the openings that have been made between turkey and armenia; the will to reform of 2004 will have to return. i am also convinced that when that happens, optimism will return to our debates and to the debates in turkey.
in paragraph 17 mrs oomen-ruijten addresses the whole of turkish society to ensure that freedom of religion is fully exercised. i fully support this call, because it touches on an essential accession criterion for turkey and the european union. in the meantime, turkish education in particular and the turkish media are competing in the dissemination of the stereotypical caricature of indigenous christians, of turkish christians, as enemies of their own nation, as accomplices of western powers, who want to re-colonize their homeland and want to divide it among themselves. commissioner, will you also address the passive turkish government, the responsible turkish government, on this obstacle to accession? and then, commissioner, there is a second question. all turkish identity papers state the religion of citizens. the reason for the many forms of social discrimination against turkish christians. this is a good reason, commissioner, to urge your turkish counterpart to delete this section in official documents immediately.
i would like to continue on the point raised by mrs oomen-ruijten: the political criteria. in the negotiation process with turkey, civil rights have been very clearly put on the agenda. we shall see that in this report. a number of things have clearly improved: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, including the establishment of a kurdish-language television channel, but also the setting up of a women's committee in the turkish parliament, which i have worked hard to promote in recent years as rapporteur for women's rights in turkey. major reforms. the increase in the number of shelters for battered women is also a clear improvement. but what happens to these women when they leave the shelters? how are they and the children cared for? turkey must pay attention to this. with the municipal elections coming up: we need more women on the city council. the election is at the end of this month. i would also like to draw attention to the fight against fraud. turkey must cooperate more closely with the european union in the fight against fraud and trafficking in women, because far too many people are victims of fraud with the green funds or with charitable institutions, for example.
i would like to thank mrs neyts for the completeness of her report. we as a parliament must, as she says, make our priorities very clear. there can be no impunity for war criminals. there must be full cooperation from all the countries in the region and there must also be a careful completion of the work of the international criminal court. the court of justice in the hague, with 116 cases completed and a lot of work in the region, can clearly present a very good balance sheet. no one can say that the guilty go unpunished anymore. i also welcome the emphasis on the full cooperation to be given to the court. that goes for all the countries where suspects come from. the people who are still being sought must also be brought before the court, and all the countries in the region have committed themselves to this with the european union. we would not be credible if we did not hold to that. i shall be tabling an oral amendment to that effect tomorrow, with the rapporteur's approval. the value of the court is great, mr president, because there is still so much to be done in the judicial system in the balkans. it is therefore also right that this report emphasizes the proper functioning of an independent and impartial judiciary. because that is one of the criteria of copenhagen. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the time limit. i think you should not be so rigidly adhering to 2010, 2011; it is much more important that the court should be able to continue to function after that period, if the cases have not yet been decided. the second point is the settlement. even with the arrest and trial of mladic and hadzic, the work of the court does not end. the residual mechanism and the international criminal court can handle tasks, but i believe that good and less good experiences should never be lost.
i would like to make a few points in this short debate. the work of the yugoslav tribunal is of the utmost importance, not only to ensure that those responsible for crimes committed during the balkan wars do not escape punishment, but also to serve the people's sense of justice. the tribunal also plays an important role in european policy towards the western balkans. that is also well emphasized in mrs neyts' report. as the end of the tribunal's mandate approaches, we must think about the completion of the work. we are concerned that the capacity to complete the cases that are already in progress and to bring the last two suspects still at large, mladic and hadzic, to the tribunal, will be maintained. at no time should the impression be given that the length of the mandate and its expiry would leave these people free to go. whether this is done by means of an extension of the mandate or by setting up a residual mechanism is not a matter of principle for us, and as far as we are concerned we might also be able to find a way of putting the judges, the counsellors and the secretariat on standby mode.
i would like to add my support to many of the words that john bowis has just spoken. the green paper we have received from you, commissioner, is a splendid piece of work. of course, with a green paper we are always curious to see all the reactions that come out of it. these are, of course, partly predictable, but it is good to have them in order to be able to take them into account in possible future legislation. it is an important green paper because it is a matter that must be settled. the green paper is the result of the controversy which arose at the time over frits bolkestein's proposals and it is good that the commission is approaching it in this way, cautiously, with a green paper and a lot of discussion about it. because i think there's a lot of fear around this subject. i would therefore not limit my contribution to the subject of health workers alone, because i believe that in other areas too we are repeatedly confronted with the same fear of the unknown of the european dimension in health care. much has been achieved in the european union in the field of public health in recent years, both under your predecessors and with you as commissioner. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, commissioner, on the stamp you have managed to put on this policy in a relatively short time. i did not think it would be possible in such a short time and i think we can all be proud of how you have done it. a great deal has been achieved in recent years, for example in the field of paediatric medicines, a matter which the public does not even know is a problem, but for which a european solution is of paramount importance, because member states cannot solve it alone. the scale is what helps. i believe that the same applies to other areas. for example, tobacco policy and the discouragement of smoking, where the european union is also playing a leading role. not only within the union itself, but also outside it. again, it is precisely the scale that allows us to be effective at this point. we are also very busy with crossborder care and protecting patients' rights in europe, also under the leadership of rapporteur john bowis, and i hope and expect that we can also achieve a positive result on that point. however, time and again, on every subject that comes up, you see that not only ministers, but also fellow parliamentarians in the national parliaments, are reluctant to further deepen european cooperation in the field of public health. with 27 different systems in the european union, we all think we have the best model. whoever you talk to, any system is the best system. of course you can't. you can't have 27 different systems and 27 best systems at the same time. of course, every country has thought through such a system. there are all people and all well-meaning interests involved. the european union is suddenly rushing through this difficult balance with an idea that we now believe is the best. i understand that there is resistance. but i do think that in some areas, such as rare diseases, that scale can be beneficial for both patients and systems. there are many reasons for greater european involvement in public health. almost 40,000 patients are waiting for an organ in europe, and almost ten people on those waiting lists die every day. alcohol abuse kills 195,000 people and damages the european economy by €125 billion a year. a matter that is probably best handled locally, not even nationally. but you also see european trends, for example, in the abuse of alcohol among young people. then you have to consider whether it might not make sense to tackle the european issue. however, we are doing everything we can under the current treaty texts to tackle these problems. but we have to do more. for example - and this is why this green paper is so important - a genuine freedom of movement for health services. i am convinced that if we face all the problems, because there are problems, and come up with solutions, for example to combat fraud, to strengthen the legal certainty of patients, but also of healthcare workers, then in the end it will be better for everyone if this free movement is organised in a responsible way, but it will become possible. better cooperation on organ donation and effective cooperation on pandemic prevention - a subject i keep coming back to. if you do not deal with this in a european way, i am convinced that we will have very big problems if that flu comes from thailand. in fact, the commission should be able to take crisis measures within 24 hours at that time. finally, i think that article 152 is ultimately insufficient to organise further effective european action. if we dare to think of amending the treaty in the distant future, i think we should think of extending the legal basis for public health in a new treaty.
mr president, what is happening in sri lanka now has been perfectly predictable for several years. it is not just a humanitarian problem, but above all a serious political failure. after years of violent struggle for secession from the northeast of the country, a previous government of norway has offered to mediate between the sinhalese-controlled government and the tamil rebel movement. the norwegian negotiator, who has worked for a long time to find peaceful solutions, is now a minister in the new government. unfortunately, that possibility for a peaceful solution has since been abandoned. the sri lankan government ended peace efforts in the summer of 2006 and re-opted to impose a military solution unilaterally. that government is probably thinking now that it has achieved a great success. in reality, peaceful, harmonious and equal coexistence between the two peoples has become even more difficult for the future. without a compromise on a peaceful solution, the way forward will also be horribly violent. we must return to peace negotiations without winners and losers.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1785/92 on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). i don't have much trouble with this in itself. it may be useful to further shape bilateral relations in such a partnership, but there are at least two risks inherent in this construction. firstly, europe cannot declare every country a strategic partner. i think this is a devaluation of the concept of 'strategic'. i therefore advocate that only bilateral relations with key partners should be included in this denominator. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. secondly, i sometimes get the vague feeling that these strategic partnerships have a highly symbolic value. we can have another summit and then a lot of things will stay the same. these partnerships often function as a forum only. the question of the concrete results often remains unanswered. i can also taste some of this in the draft recommendation from parliament to the council on brazil, which we are discussing this morning. i am also very much concerned about the need to identify specific problems. i would like to illustrate this concern, mr president, by using three elements of the draft recommendation. first of all, it is somewhat veiledly noted that this partnership must not be at the expense of the union's relations with mercosur. how is it possible that the european union, which has always been a champion of regional cooperation, is giving priority to bilateral relations with brazil over regional cooperation with mercosur? the union is following the wrong order here. the european union should draw attention to the importance of a strong mercosur in brazil and encourage it to invest heavily in this cooperation agreement itself. instead, the union is sitting down at the bilateral level with brazil and is sending the signal that mercosur is secondary to us. i also think that the draft recommendation is not very clear in terms of trade. the call is made for joint efforts to smooth the doha round. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt. the issue of market access is a point of contention for both sides. i think that the doha round has a better chance of success if this issue is negotiated at bilateral level. i do not want to say that this will be easy, but i think it is a better way than making rhetorically sound declarations. i also looked at the draft recommendation from my geopolitical point of view. i do not see any call for brazil to take a leading role in the region. i would like to conclude my contribution with that. brazil must monitor the political developments in the region and does so primarily on the basis of the ambition of its neighbour venezuela to achieve hegemony on the continent. this is a situation which is neither in the interest of the continent itself nor in the interest of the european union. the controversial referendum on constitutional change in venezuela is a good example of how little european values as a democracy will remain.
mr president, a year ago i was standing here. then we talked about the unrest in tibet. we have urged china to allow media and international organisations access to the area and i am glad that we then asked parliament to have a serious dialogue between china and the dalai lama. china, last year, with the organization and execution of the olympic games, showed the whole world that it is capable of transforming and surprising the world. in the run-up to the games, china has given foreign journalists space. i appreciate that this temporary expansion of press freedom was there for foreign journalists. unfortunately, it was short-lived. last tuesday the journalists were unable to get into tibet to report on the situation there. i deeply regret that the chinese government no longer guarantees freedom of the press. at the same time, journalists in china have no freedom of the press at all. chinese journalists have a system of self-censorship, where they are expected to adopt the government's point of view. again, in china, there is a world of difference between the law, which is good and guarantees freedom of the press, and the practice, which requires journalists to restrict themselves. all media must comply with the censorship guidelines set by the parties. in addition, the government blocks internet sites. fortunately, internet users are quick to inform each other of current political developments. for the dialogue between the tibetans and the chinese, the people, the people, it is crucial that they have factual information. negotiations can only be conducted on the basis of facts, and for that, freedom of the press in china is an important condition. we must be able to write freely to inform the rest of the chinese people about what is happening in tibet. let us, as europe, put our fists on the table and stand up for human rights in china. the step must be taken to restart the dialogue between china and tibet. let china take that one step in the right direction and open itself to dialogue, or, in the words of the chinese sage lao tzu, "a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step".
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, after yesterday’s debate and after consultation with the rapporteur, i would like to add one word to the amendment. the word would be ‘transitional’, and the amendment would then read as follows: ‘except for temporary, transitional derogations’.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, after yesterday’s debate, i would like to propose replacing the word ‘involve’ with ‘consult’.
author. − mr president, before we vote on the resolution i tabled on the accession process for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i wish to make three technical remarks so that everybody can decide on the correct texts. first remark: where it speaks about the macedonian negotiator in paragraph 12, the text should be ‘the negotiator of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia’. this is entirely in line with what we decided on when voting on my reports of 2007 and 2008. second remark: in paragraph 18, the macedonian orthodox church is the official name of the biggest religious community in the country. this is mentioned in order to distinguish it from the serbian orthodox group. this use of the word ‘macedonian’ cannot be replaced by any reference to any state name. as it is the official name of an institution, i propose surrounding the name with inverted commas. third remark: as regards the translation of the word ‘pending’ in paragraph 10 in the phrase ‘pending full implementation of the key priorities of the accession partnership’, the french and italian versions – at least – differ from the texts in english, german and dutch. for all final translations i propose using the original english version.
in writing. - on 9 september 2006, 5 february 2009 and last night debates took place here on the permanent and hopeless struggle between tamils and sinhalese on the island of sri lanka. i've been in all those debates. in it i have always advocated not to take sides in the conflict but to help to bring about a peace agreement between the two camps. the agreement should at least result in an autonomous tamil region in the north-east of the country. last night, mr tannock and mr van orden argued the exact opposite. they point to the atrocities of the tamil resistance movement and wish to offer all possible support to the sinhalese government. it is forgotten that both sides are using unacceptable force and that the government has broken the peace process initiated by norway. i am glad that a resolution was adopted today containing most of the amendments proposed by mr evans, calling for humanitarian aid, mediation and a peaceful solution.
in writing. − there are three positions within this parliament on turkey's future accession to the eu. the first view, advocated by former us president bush, is that accession is highly desirable because turkey can supply a lot of cheap labour and military and is a loyal nato ally. the second view is that turkey's accession will always be undesirable because it is considered to be asian, islamic, too big and too dangerous. we have always defended a third position here, together with our group. turkey should be able to join if it so wishes. this is important for the many europeans of turkish origin. before that happens, this country must become a full democracy, without political prisoners, without banned media, without banned parties. the kurdish language must have equal rights in government, education and the media, the high 10% electoral threshold for parliament must disappear and the kurdish southeast must be granted autonomy in a decentralized state. the mass murder of the armenians in 1915 can no longer be denied, just as it would not be acceptable for the germans to deny the mass murder of the jews in the period 1938-1945. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is far too weak on this point. that is why we must unfortunately vote against it.
in writing. - paragraph 45 of the ria oomen-ruijten report states that the eu's accession negotiations with turkey should be extended. the vvd has serious objections to this. the vvd believes that turkey has made too little progress in recent years and that there is no reason to speed up the negotiations. the vvd believes that turkey must first comply with a number of hard agreements. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the time has come for turkey to send positive signals to the eu, not for the vvd to send positive signals to turkey. despite the major objections to paragraph 45, the vvd delegation decided to vote in favour of the report as a whole, since it can be found in the rest of the text.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution in the final vote. i do not think that the report as a whole is a bad one, but one element is so important to me that i could not vote in favour of it. water is not a commodity to be traded, it is a basic necessity of life and everyone has a right to it. the use of water is not a choice of man, but essential to survival and therefore not suitable as a commercial or economic good. water supply should be in public hands and remain so. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the world. they are the legal successors of colonies of european countries, territories which were conquered in the last centuries in order to have cheap resources. mining for metals and harvesting tropical crops were the main objectives, and in some cases, people were also traded as slaves. people with very different languages and cultures have thus become residents of such a colony, cut off from those with whom they have much more in common in language and culture. the philippines were taken from spain by the united states in 1898 and then governed as their own colony until 1946. as an independent state, this country has since gained a reputation for bad governance. the question is whether that's a coincidence. such states are not the product of popular will, they do not arise from below. they came from above and from outside. such states are not the best breeding ground for a democratic rule of law and for the peaceful settlement of social conflicts. they are often held together by force and the power of the military is great. there is often also a lot of room for foreign companies, which are predatory and bad for the environment and their employees. they are given the opportunity to misbehave by providing privileges and riches to those in power. such abuses call for counter-movements. if these movements are not seen by the state as a legal opposition that can grow into a participant in a government through peaceful means, there is a good chance that these movements will flee from self-preservation into violence. the government then responds with more state violence, sometimes without acknowledging that this violence comes from the state itself. since 2001, hundreds of activists, trade unionists, journalists and religious leaders have been killed or abducted. opponents who were released by a court were still imprisoned by the state. the perpetrators of murders and kidnappings are not being traced or punished. foreign attempts at mediation have been rejected and eventually abandoned. the resolution rightly calls for greater efforts to promote mediation, compromise and peaceful solutions. without the integration of counter-movements into the democratic rule of law, the philippines will remain a chaotic country where life is bad.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main objective of these governments was and is to hold together the territory of this vast state, inhabited by very different peoples. these various peoples are being subjected by all possible means to the authority of the capital, khartoum. that is why for years there has been a struggle against the secessionist movement in the south, the area that is predominantly non-arab and non-islamic. it is still far from certain that the south will be free to actually exercise the agreed right of secession in 2011. in the western region of darfur, the government is determined to prevent such a separation. there has always been a conflict of interest between nomadic cattle farmers and settled agriculturalists. the government now has a stake in that conflict. the depopulation of this area by driving the permanent inhabitants to the neighbouring country of chad is an important means of keeping this area under control. in this dirty work, the government cannot use any foreign observers, aid workers or mediators. the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament has already called for a european military intervention some years ago. such remarks do good to sections of domestic public opinion and give the impression that a rich and powerful europe can impose its solutions on the rest of the world. in practice, this is not a feasible solution. moreover, there is no clarity whatsoever as to the purpose of such an intervention. is this a matter of temporary humanitarian aid or the creation of a state in darfur? any variant would be seen in africa as a renewed display of colonial power from europe, primarily designed for european self-interest. a less spectacular way, but probably more effective, is the international arrest warrant against president al-bashir and the investigation of war crimes. the offer of outside help for peaceful solutions and humanitarian aid must always be made. the affected populations, many of whom have fled, deserve our support in their struggle for survival.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the african union is able to play a more active role in the development of africa, and that the eu and africa are able to work together to achieve the objectives of the african union. this summit was a momentous occasion. in fact, it was the first time that the european union and the african union, on the basis of shared values and principles and mutual respect, had jointly adopted a strategy, agreed to jointly achieve the millennium development goals and jointly address the major common challenges in areas such as security, migration and climate change. we all know the criticism in our countries, where people are asking whether it is still worthwhile to continue investing in africa, especially in these times of economic crisis. i would like to stress once again the importance of our commitment to the development of africa, and that applies to both continents. it is as commissioner michel has just said in a meeting on this subject: the more poverty, the more instability. it is also important because of demographic trends. soon africa will represent 20% of the world's population and europe only 5. we have common problems, we have common challenges. in the absence of opportunities for people in africa, they will certainly look for them in europe. africa deserves our support, and not just for that. we're talking today about the implementation of the agreed strategy and we have an action plan. we must continue to move forward together to implement the strategy and the action plan. i am pleased with the results achieved so far in the partnerships. in my previous reports i have always expressed concern about the lack of a clear and concrete role for parliaments in implementing a common strategy. in 2007, the pan-african parliament and the european parliament issued a joint statement that actually sums up the essence of what this is all about. i read it in english: as institutions representing the will of the people, our parliaments must ensure that their needs are met, their concerns heard by decision-makers, and that their wishes are reflected in the policies proposed by the institutions that govern them. our parliaments have an essential part to play in shaping the debate on the joint priorities for the future of our continents; they reflect the various currents of opinion in our societies, and are therefore the place where the debate must be conducted, and where differing views can be reconciled and compromises sought. r - i am therefore glad that we agreed at that meeting on the role of parliaments. and it is also thanks to mr michael gahler, thanks to the pap colleagues and all those involved that agreement has been reached on the role of parliaments. it is about participation in the group of experts on the eight partnerships and the coordinating task force. the parliaments will provide input in the annual progress reports and the presidents of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament will be invited to present their views at the african summits. that's an important fact. finally, one question to the commissioner. we know that the debate on the definitions of oda will be back on the agenda at eu-sedac in april and that the european commission will be present. can the commissioner give his views on this debate and what the european commission will be doing?
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr martens, for her solid report. it is good that parliament not only welcomes the announcement of a partnership but also actually monitors its concrete results. that's what africa needs. the basis of a successful partnership with africa is good governance and human rights. that is essential on a continent where a mayor deposes a president or where another president drones his own people to witch hunting. let the council and the commission make this a point of reference. i am thinking, in the context of good governance, of the role of china, which is only mentioned in passing in this resolution. i am missing a critical note on the sometimes disastrous consequences of china's presence in africa. the union may well learn from the 2 billion euros that the china-africa development fund is investing in africa. however, the fact that beijing also invests in countries like zimbabwe says a lot about its contribution to sustainable democracy and good governance in this continent. i would like to make one further comment to the rapporteur. in paragraph 46 she talks about food security and also independent food supply in africa. what i also miss in the resolution is a text which tackles a problem which has existed for a number of years, namely that foreign states or companies lease or even buy large areas of agricultural land, with the harvest going to the foreign investor and thus not benefiting their own people who are suffering from hunger. these are indeed distressing situations! moreover, these investments do not generate any jobs. it is a pity that the resolution does not deal with this specific problem, which is also being raised in the media.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i have not much more to add. this is the first debate on the implementation of the strategy. the head is off, but we're just getting started. there is still an extraordinary amount to be done. africa is still the poorest continent. the commission has already indicated where our concerns lie and where the challenges lie, whether it is peace and security, economic growth, good governance, capacity building or the role of parliaments and civil society. the commissioner has said a lot about that. i thank the commissioner and the members of the pan-african parliament for the good cooperation. we'll continue to follow this process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. five important reports by our colleagues are being discussed today and tomorrow and, just before the european elections, are also being voted on. this is the largest budget of the european community and also the most visible to the public. cohesion policy has given europe a coherent and also a solidary face. no other continent has produced so much cohesion among its peoples. the new lisbon treaty also restores cohesion as a central objective. it even adds a third component, namely territorial cohesion. unusual times call for new answers. the financial crisis, the increased competition due to globalisation, the climate crisis and the lagging performance on the lisbon objective call for greater inclusiveness, strengthening and improvement in regional policy. we are talking about this in the green paper. it is not business as usual, but a call for better governance and territorial cohesion, which also exposes a criticism of developments in which there are regions that are taking off, metropolitan areas that are progressing and regions that are falling behind. that is not the europe that this parliament is facing. that is why today, in this joint debate, we are setting the course for the period after 2013, for the legislative review which we will begin in the next parliamentary term after the elections. i shall briefly summarize the main points of this debate and of territorial cohesion. as far back as 2005, mr gullick's report reflected the wishes of this parliament. the new territorial dimension is now a permanent objective in articles 13 and 174 of the new lisbon treaty. it is, as i said, a clear opposition to an asymmetrical europe of regions in full expansion and more rural areas lagging behind. it is a dual entity, between centres of excellence (pôles d'excellence) and the specific position of other regions and cities with their own qualities and pluriformity. territorial cohesion is also complementary to the existing policies of economic and social cohesion. it's an integral concept. it provides an overview of the effects of sectoral community and decentralised action such as research and development, the common agricultural policy, traffic and transport, employment situations and the fight against climate change. the concept of territorial cohesion, as the consultations of the past six months have shown, is widely supported and that is a good thing. the concept includes concentration on the one hand and connection and cooperation on the other, and we would like to develop this concept in the next period.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, this morning i was the first speaker in this joint debate and looking back i think we have given a very good signal to our citizens, to the people who are working in a decentralised way to implement integrated policies, that the european parliament is choosing to continue with cohesion policy and appreciates their work in all those many projects, whether it is r & d developments or research infrastructure or renewable energy projects. that is essential. if we go to the electorate in the coming months, there are thousands of projects in which europe is close to the citizen. i think that's very important. i also wish commissioner hübner every success in his campaign, because i understand that you too will be going to the electorate in the coming months. that is a very big asset, including for everyone here. i would also like to thank you in particular for the policy changes you have made: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work. i would like to make a few comments, firstly on the emphasis on crossborder cooperation, the third objective, which we must also strengthen financially in the coming period. second point: no splitting of our funds. we have wonderful funds that we use to decentralize our partners in the partnership to provide the means to continue development. we can't just split it up into the next period. finally, the white paper on territorial cohesion must be published. you have indicated a great deal, but that white paper is the basis for future legislation and i would be very sorry if the european commission failed to issue a white paper. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs on my report for their cooperation, and especially the staff, because they were great.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president, i would have liked to address the council today, but i understand that no one from the council is present and that this debate may therefore be of less importance. i am a little surprised, because the necessary budgetary commitments were made last weekend and the council is not concerned with the actual financing of these commitments. i'm standing here with the necessary sense of irony. officially we are here to talk about the mid-term review, but in reality all the necessary has been said about the economic stimulus package which was agreed last weekend. that package is just now showing where that interim review, where that multiannual budget is lacking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. galileo, the food aid for africa, the way it has been financed, did not deserve a beauty award. now, we come to the discussion of the economic stimulus package. the council has made commitments but does not seem to know where the money is to come from. in the energy sector, for example, there is still some 2 billion to be found for energy projects, not only from this year's budget, but also from next year's budget and perhaps the budget for the year after that. the margin of the agricultural budget is already being eroded. they say: yes, that's not farm money, that's the margin. but there is only one animal disease outbreak and we really need that money in the agricultural budget. you may remember the kzk. or what do we do if the prices on the dairy market remain low and intervention is needed? the margin on the agricultural budget will only get smaller in the coming years. the report of the committee on agriculture for the midterm review rightly points this out. i would therefore like to have confirmation from the commission and the council - if they do appear and if not in writing - that we will first look at the existing commitments in the agricultural sector, only then will we look at the margin and see whether that margin can be used in other areas. those are the rules of the game we agreed to. if we don't do that, i think we're throwing out the kid with the bathwater.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. as a liberal, i am naturally in favour of a functioning internal market and the least possible government intervention in that market. on the other hand, consumers must have choices. at the moment, the consumer has no choice when buying a new phone. there he has to buy a charger automatically, and that very often causes great irritation among consumers. furthermore, research shows that consumers have to spend around eur 300 million a year on new chargers because they are automatically included in the purchase of a new telephone. the result is that this also imposes a burden on the environment of 300 million euros a year, and i am not even talking about the waste of energy caused by these cheap chargers, because these chargers often remain in the socket and continue to use energy without a telephone. my colleague marco cappato and i have been advocating for years the introduction of a european standard and i would like to congratulate the commissioner very much on the way he has managed this by flirting a little with the industry, by threatening: "come up with a solution yourself, or we'll come up with mandatory legislation". i would like to compliment him on that, because as a liberal i am against compulsion, but rather for seduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i 've made this joke before . when i met my wife 35 years ago, i seduced her into going with me. if i had obliged her then, she probably wouldn't have seen the added value of now and the idea would have been less popular. i think the example also applies to industry, because if industry is allowed to solve it, it will do better than if politics dictates it. so i think it's a great solution. i hope that in the long term you will succeed in introducing a standard not only for mobile phone chargers but also for more electrical appliances, because it is a nuisance to the point of being a nuisance. when a family goes on a weekend outing, there's 30 loads on a cabinet. there are always people, including in this house today, who have to ask: "does anybody have a charger? for i have forgotten mine". then you have to have a specific charger of a specific model and of a specific brand. once again, my compliments to you, commissioner. i also hope that this will actually happen in 2012, and i also hope that you will take strong action if the industry does not comply with the commitment, because that is also very important. you have to keep a stick behind the door, or rather seduce and self-regulate to find a solution. you have succeeded and i congratulate you on that.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, because they have helped me very much to make improvements to the commission's report. i should also mention the cooperation with the czech presidency. they have also thought very carefully and we could almost have reached an agreement at first reading, but there were still a few minor points pending and it is also much more democratic to vote first in this house. when i first heard that the commission was coming up with regulations on novel foods, i wondered what the new food was all about. i was also surprised that the commission proposal took the single market as its starting point. to begin with the last one. as with many other matters in this parliament, this subject can be approached from the perspective of the internal market, from the producer's perspective or from the economic perspective. but it can also be approached from the perspectives of food safety, the consumer, health and the environment, in other words, based on the well-being of the european citizen. the eu also talks a lot about the environment and animal welfare, and i thought: let us not just keep to words in this report, but let us also put action behind the words. so when my report on novel foods had to make a choice, i chose food safety, consumer welfare, food safety, the environment and animal welfare as the first priority. i hope very much, and i have heard from the shadow rapporteurs, that they will support me in the vote on this point. of course, innovation is also very important. now i come to my second point: what are new foods, anyway? the commission proposal did not make that very clear. the commission then informed me that the issues involved included nanotechnology and meat from cloned animals. let's start with nanotechnology. i had no idea what it was. i think a lot of consumers don't know what it is either, but it turns out it's already in our food more than we think: in the case of energy drinks, fruit and vegetable packaging, but also in certain oils and teas, for example. so we need to regulate very quickly, because technology is fun, it can be good for the consumer, but we do need to make sure that what's on our plate is safe. it should therefore be covered by the regulation. as regards meat from cloned animals, parliament has already said in a resolution to the commission that it does not want meat from cloned animals to be placed on the market as food. if meat from cloned animals were to be covered by this regulation, we as a parliament would be indirectly admitting that we would still be in favour of such meat being placed on our market as food. this is not possible and meat from cloned animals should therefore be excluded from the scope of this regulation. it's not so much about safety. there's just a lot of animal suffering involved in cloning meat, and a lot of these cloned animals don't even live long. so it has no added value to the food supply at the moment.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to elaborate on a few very important points which were made by honourable members. concerning nanotechnologies, i have taken note of recent scientific opinions and i am convinced by the related documents in mrs liotard’s report. the european union will be first in the world to have a regulatory definition of engineered nanomaterials and a coherent and flexible approach to this technology. in order to clarify the commission’s position on the definition of nanotechnologies, i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the commission. the commission notes that work towards a common definition of nanomaterials is still evolving. the commission therefore confirms that, in future community legislation, progress on the common definition should be taken into account, and notes that the comitology procedures included in this proposal also enable the definition in this proposal to be updated. regarding the mandatory labelling of all food produced with the aid of nanotechnology, i would like to note that the commission is indeed in favour of consumer information about the presence of nanomaterials in food. however, under the novel food regulation we have a case-by-case authorisation which also lays down conditions for use of such products, including the labelling requirements. labelling will thus be examined on a case-by-case basis. let me now clarify my position on the important issue of cloning. i have already stated that i consider that the novel food regulation is not the most suitable instrument for managing all the issues of cloning. novel food only deals with food safety and market authorisation. therefore the use of clones in breeding programmes – semen, embryos and ova – cannot be regulated under the novel food regulation, nor can issues linked to animal health and welfare be addressed here. on 13 january, the college of commissioners held an orientation debate on the cloning of farm animals for food production. the commission agreed that there remain a number of unanswered questions. in this respect the commission is working closely with efsa and ensuring that related scientific research is conducted. at the same time, i launched discussions with our main trading partners: the united states, canada, japan, australia and new zealand. yes, we need more information and data on cloning techniques and the way in which progenies of cloned animals should be handled from a regulatory perspective. as some of you have mentioned, in july last year the european food safety authority delivered its opinion covering the scientific aspects of cloning for food in the eu. the general conclusion of the opinion is that the risk assessment is insufficient due to the limited data available. with regard to the health and welfare of animals, the opinion makes it clear that a significant proportion of clones have been found to be adversely affected, often severely, and with a fatal outcome both for cloned animals and for the surrogate animal. the opinion of the european group on ethics also highlights a number of scientific questions that need to be answered, and research that needs to be carried out, on food safety, animal health and welfare, traceability and labelling. in conclusion, i wish to acknowledge that, with regard to cloning, there is certainly an issue to be addressed, but the novel food regulation is not the right place to regulate all the questions surrounding this sensitive matter. nevertheless, i would like to make a commitment, on behalf of the commission, to produce, as soon as possible, a comprehensive report on all aspects of cloning techniques with a view to the production of foodstuffs, including animal health and welfare in relation to clones and their offspring, accompanied, if appropriate, by legislative proposals. let me stress that i believe that a solution can be found on the issue and, in this respect, i thank parliament for its understanding and cooperation. liotard report (a6-0512/2008) the commission can accept amendments 7, 12, 34, 35, 41, 42, 44, 45, 53 and 63. amendments 3, 8, 15, 20, 58, 64, 65, 76, 87, 88 and 89 can be accepted in principle. amendments 1, 6, 10, 25, 30, 31, 36, 40, 66, 67, 69, 77, 82, 84, 85 and 93 are acceptable subject to rewording. the commission cannot accept amendments 2, 4, 5, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 37, 38, 39, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 86, 90, 91 and 92.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their contribution to the debate and also for the support i have received for certain points in my report. of course, there were some critical comments. i am glad of that too, because it is only good for the debate. our aim is to give consumers the assurance that food produced by new techniques or new food coming onto the market is safe. we must make sure that our input and our proposals are successful. it also creates certainty for the producer who wants to innovate, and thus he knows what he or she is up against. the report also addresses data protection in relation to those producers, which also promotes innovation in the field of food safety. i would also like to thank the commissioner very much for what she said about nanotechnology. in this area, there will indeed be many changes, and if we establish a definition at the beginning, it should be possible to revise it again as science progresses. i would also like to thank the commissioner for what she said about animal cloning. on the other hand, i would point out that this parliament has already tabled a resolution in which we say that we do not want meat from cloned animals to be placed on the market as food. that is also reflected in this report and i therefore call for the exclusion of animal cloning from the novel food regulation. that is what the report calls for and, as you have just heard, it is strongly supported by this parliament. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues thomas, vivian and jan-jaap, who have worked very hard to produce this report.
- i'm the reporter. - president, closing the ozone hole is important for the environment and for the health of the entire world population. our atmosphere is designed to protect us with two different layers. the co2 in the tropospheric layer is holding the heat so we don't get too cold. the ozone in the stratospheric layer protects us from the sun's harmful uv rays. the ozone-depleting substances regulation is primarily aimed at protecting the stratospheric ozone layer, but also at preventing climate change. the substances banned have both ozone-depleting and global warming potential. the main ozone depleting substances are found in the exhaust gases of spray cans, refrigerators, insulation materials and some specific solvents and cleaning agents. the cfcs and halons which have the strongest ozone depleting effect have been eliminated after a limited number of exceptions. the production of hcfcs is already prohibited and the use will be prohibited by 2020. the preamble to the new regulation states that the production and use of ozone depleting substances shall be stopped or minimised as far as possible. this is an important policy point. the committee on the environment has adopted 64 amendments. two trilogues followed, resulting in an agreement between the council and parliament. the 64 amendments are hereby replaced by a single consolidated text. i would like to briefly recall nine important results of the agreement. firstly, the legal basis of the regulation has been changed in the field of the environment. this gives member states the opportunity to take further environmental protection measures. secondly, the use of the pesticide methyl bromide is prohibited as of 18 march 2010. this also applies to the gassing of containers for pest control. the only exception is for emergencies, like a major epidemic. thirdly, in the hcfc decommissioning programme, the percentage has been reduced to 7% for the last years compared to 1997. fourthly, halons may only be used in establishments designated by the government. fifthly, new substances have been added to the list of substances nominated for restrictive measures. the european commission has committed itself to further studying these substances. sixthly, for the necessary exceptions, such as reagents and laboratory use, labelling is made compulsory. it was also agreed that the use of laboratories should not increase. seventh, reuse and recycling of ozone depleting substances for existing appliances can only take place within the same company. in addition, a logbook of the quantities present should be kept to prevent fraud and illegal trade. eighth, there is attention to enforcement through inspections. the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. ninthly, the control and enforcement system has been strengthened to prevent leakage of ozone depleting substances. however, more is needed to address the problem of stored ozone depleting substances. the european commission has an important role to play in this. i would like to stress once again the need to develop the directive on construction and demolition waste, as we agreed seven years ago in the sixth environmental action programme. all in all, we have achieved a satisfactory result. the ozone layer will have a better chance of recovery, so that harmful effects, such as skin cancer and damage to plants and trees, will be reduced.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i regret that there are not more people in the house today, because we are discussing a really very successful protocol which has had very positive effects both on the environment and health and on the recovery of the ozone layer, which has returned to pre-1980 levels. i would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate this evening for their very constructive comments and to note that the commission is committed to making use of the powers conferred on it and to consider whether the conditions are in place for the inclusion of three more substances by mid-2010; the commission has already made a statement on this subject to the secretariat of the european parliament for inclusion in the minutes of today's debate. i would also like to mention that in copenhagen at the end of this year i believe we will have an agreement to combat climate change that is at least as ambitious and successful as the montreal protocol. i hope that it will be even more effective, and that is the direction in which we must all move. in conclusion, i would like to say that the commission is very satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and is able to accept the proposed compromise amendments in full. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu. the commission confirms its intention to consider by 30 june 2010 the inclusion of additional substances in part b of annex ii to the regulation, in particular evaluating whether the conditions for their inclusion set out in article 24 (3) are fulfilled. this accelerated examination will focus on the following substances: the following substances are considered to be substances of very high concern:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to bring this matter to the attention of the commissioner. that's a substance that we don't know much about, we don't know much about how that substance is produced. fortunately, the consultation has now decided to ask suppliers to report on how this substance is produced. this is how we get precise information about this substance. i would also like to thank my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs and those who have spoken here tonight, for the support i have received. we have worked together very well, both in the committee and in the negotiations. i also thank the czech presidency for the good agreements we were able to reach before and during the negotiations. at any rate, it has produced a satisfactory result. i also greatly appreciated the support of the officials of the european commission and the officials of the environment committee and of my own staff. we really worked as a team and that's why we were able to complete this sweeping change in legislation in six months. i would like to make one final comment. i'm not very happy with the system of the reshuffle. it's not easy to know what you can and cannot amend. fortunately, there were lawyers who pointed out to me that the legal basis had been changed in the recast so that we could amend it, otherwise it would have almost escaped our attention. fortunately, the council also shared this view and at the last minute we were able to put this right in the committee on the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0403 - c4-0206/97). of course, this can only happen if everyone is involved and we ensure that we have a good living environment, here as well as in developing countries. the agreement reached at the eu summit last week is too meager to make a new sustainable economy work. the economic crisis, the climate crisis and the energy crisis call for a new approach, and that approach calls for necessary investment. the european union must take the lead in this. we had hoped for an agreement on the financing of the bali and poznan climate agreements. it is worrying that this agreement, after exhaustive negotiations by the environment and finance ministers, has not been reached at the eu summit. where is the eu's leadership in terms of concrete funding? the delay in financing climate plans for developing countries is a serious undermining of climate agreements. this is not the leadership needed in preparing for copenhagen.
mr president, there is a lot of talk about how much money we actually need to spend to combat this economic crisis. we can talk about that for a long time. i believe that future generations must also be taken into account, that they should not be blamed. but perhaps more important than that is the question of what we spend that money on. i worry, though, when i see the reflex to put money back into old industries, old technologies, to keep faltering industries going. it is therefore striking that in the council conclusions the chapter on the economic crisis and the chapter on energy and sustainability are simply treated as two totally different themes, whereas now is the time to link the two together. i do not want to be as cavalier as mr turmes was earlier today, but the time has come to invest in new technologies and also in knowledge. it is intolerable that billions are being poured into the car industry and that cuts must be made in education. then we're really on the wrong end! another point is the solutions for the eastern european countries and the non-euro countries. they are being left behind, and an amount of 50 billion euros is mentioned. i wonder whether the council and the commission are also considering an option of accelerated accession to the euro zone for those countries which are not yet members, because the stability and strength of those countries is in the interest of europe as a whole. finally, i am very concerned about the nationalist language and the tendency of all national leaders to adopt 'own country first' solutions. we should all be concerned about the rise of the far right and make sure we tackle it before the elections.
president. - we are on the eve of new relations between the european union and the united states. we all know how much damage was done by eight years of george bush in the white house. that's why so many europeans were happy with the election of obama and his promise to tackle some things fundamentally differently. the report by mr millán mon deals with all these important issues. for example, the joint approach to climate change and the financial and economic crisis. but also the need for a new strategy in afghanistan and pakistan and the closure of guantanamo. the last issue, guantanamo, was one of the abuses that have seriously damaged the moral authority of the united states worldwide. that includes cases of torture and kidnapping. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. there is another decision, perhaps less striking but equally embarrassing in my view, which must also be reversed as soon as possible. that is the refusal of the united states to cooperate with the international criminal court in the hague. in fact, one month after the international criminal court opened in july 2002, the u.s. congress retaliated by passing the so-called american service members protection act. what exactly does that law entail? that law prohibits american institutions and individuals from cooperating with or providing information to the icc. it requires americans before participating in united nations operations to obtain an international guarantee of immunity. in other words, they cannot be prosecuted. countries that do cooperate with the icc can be punished for this and have been punished by the united states for it. finally, a part that caused the most fuss in my country, the netherlands, the law gives the american president all the means - the ability to use them - to free americans detained by the international criminal court. hence the law in the netherlands is known as the hague invasion act. we can make a lot of jokes about that, and we have, and rightly so. but that would be an underestimation of its significance. this law was a very hostile and very symbolic response by bush to the creation of the international criminal court. what we need now is an equally symbolic, but i hope very friendly, response from mr obama. i would like to ask the commissioner to take this matter up with the president when he meets with him next week.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. he is right to speak here of genuinely shared political and social values. i would like to add a few critical remarks to this commendation. i regret that in paragraph 35 the rapporteur is only casually recommending a joint transatlantic approach to china. there are no concrete proposals to follow, and this in a time of global crisis and in the run-up to the g20 in london, with all eyes on beijing's financial reserves and power. the rapporteur points out in paragraph 47 in particular that there are shared interests in transatlantic trade, for example the respect of intellectual property rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my second comment concerns a relativizing of multilateralism, which is so often advocated here. the united states alone can and will provide for global stability and security, based on political will and military capability. come and get it in europe! it is up to europe to support washington in a responsible and reliable way. that is the only real transatlantic cooperation for me, because the united states needs europe, but on the contrary, europe needs the americans much more. let's put that in our ears.
- a writer. - mr president, it is good that we are debating today the european parliament's position on the interim trade agreement with turkmenistan, which has been on the table of this parliament and of the european union for a long time. the council and the commission are anxious to see progress on this matter and would also like the european parliament to give its consent or a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this interim agreement, which could help to improve relations with turkmenistan. it's been on the shelf for a long time, and there's a reason for that. this parliament has been very hesitant to vote on this agreement because we are very unhappy with the human rights situation in turkmenistan, particularly under the former president/dictator turkmenbashi, who closed the country off from the world and treated his own people in a rather inhumane way. the question is, of course, whether under the new regime that has come into being since the death of turkmenbashi that situation has changed and i would like to hear from the council and the commission what changes and improvements they have noted in recent years and whether that is sufficient reason to speed up the signing, the finalisation of that trade agreement now. the commission and the council have, of course, two strong arguments for reconsideration. the strategic context has changed. we're looking at central asia differently than we did a few years ago. the commissioner has put a lot of energy into this himself, but i also know that the presidency believes that the european union should not leave this region to china or russia alone. we have interests there too, and these are also recognized by the region itself. i was in kazakhstan not long ago and you can see there that there is a great deal of interest in improving relations with the european union. the second important argument put forward by the commission is that: we have no good legal basis for relations with turkmenistan at the moment. we are still using a soviet-era treaty, and that is not really possible. and without a better treaty, we cannot have a decent human rights dialogue with that country. the question remains: i would like to ask the commissioner whether the human rights situation has improved sufficiently to take the important step of advising this parliament to approve the trade agreement. i think that question is still somewhat open and i am also waiting for the commission and the council to react to it. i'll keep my doubts. i have spoken at length about this with my colleague mr caspary of the epp, who is the rapporteur on the subject. we also want clarification from the council on a number of points which he will mention, namely the media situation in the country, education, the access of the red cross to prisons, and so on. we believe that there is a real need for improvement in these areas and that a trade agreement and a human rights dialogue with that country can help to achieve this. a final point, which is also clearly stated in the resolution we have prepared together with the alde group and the epp group. we also want some guarantee that if we agree and give a positive opinion on this trade agreement, there will be a fallback position. we want this parliament to be able to ask the commission and the council to suspend that convention if we conclude that the proposed approach of the commission and the council is not working and does not really improve the human rights situation in that country. if we do not get such a commitment, it will be very difficult for me to persuade my own group to vote for this trade agreement at the group meeting tonight. then we shall probably have to ask for a delay in the vote. it is really very important for us to have that commitment, that if the situation in the country gets worse or does not improve substantially, that we can then have a debate again on whether that agreement should not be suspended. parliament should have the right to make a request to the council and the commission to that effect.
president. - we too can agree to the continuation of the european union's policy of establishing dialogue and closer cooperation with the belarusian regime. we have only been working on this for six or seven months and we have to see whether what the european union wants will also lead to fruitful results in the coming period. that does not change the fact that we continue to have doubts about the intentions of a regime that is not known as democratic. i myself have had the honour of having contacts with the regime on many occasions and believe me, mr lukashenko did not become a democrat overnight. that he wants more with the european union has to do with other things. but if he wants to, we can use that to put pressure on him to continue in the direction he has taken, by taking some positive steps in the field of human rights. but i think, like charles tannock, that it is too early to speculate on whether we should reward him with an eastern partnership. a genuine human rights dialogue has yet to take place and human rights violations continue to take place. in the field of human rights dialogue, we believe that there should be a full place for the opposition, which we have supported in various ways in recent years, including the award of two sakharov prizes. in minsk, they think it is not appropriate to support the opposition in this way. but there are precedents for that: for six or seven years i myself was involved in an attempt to establish a dialogue with the osce and the council of europe with the government of belarus and the opposition at the time. that failed, but there is a precedent for that kind of consultation. the european policy we want must make a visible contribution to greater freedom and openness. the points which we consider important are also mentioned in the resolution before us. if progress is made on these points in the coming months, then further eu restrictions may be lifted as far as we are concerned. i would like to add two things to that. firstly, we think that the commission should also take account of the fact that in belarus there is so little awareness of the european union and that is not something that can be solved by a satellite channel. more needs to be done from within the country and within the country. secondly, i would urge that the authorities in minsk be asked whether all restrictions on the travel of chernobyl children can finally be lifted. one last comment, and that's more of a personal note. the new situation has at least one thing to do with it: for the first time in six years i have been granted a visa to travel to belarus with a delegation from parliament, possibly in a few weeks' time, and i shall be glad to take advantage of that opportunity.
president. - my group is not against the debate today, but it has great difficulty in summing up the result in a resolution. it gives the impression that we can adopt a resolution on how to deal with the history of europe and particularly with the totalitarian past. as the negotiations that have just taken place have shown, they quickly became bogged down in the question of what words we can and cannot use in such a resolution. please, let's leave it to historians to interpret our history precisely, knowing that objectivity is impossible. of course, politicians can help to ensure that the past is given sufficient attention, and that certainly applies to the crimes committed by hitler and stalin. they must never be forgotten and we must honor the victims. we must also all realise that our fellow europeans in central and eastern europe have suffered under two totalitarian systems and that this experience does not apply to people like me, who was born in the netherlands. geremek, our former colleague, once rightly remarked: "we have not yet arrived at the reunion of our memories". we as politicians have a responsibility to organise what we particularly want to remember, but let us do that together with historians. a day to commemorate all the victims of the totalitarian systems in europe in the last century is a good suggestion in itself, but let us decide in consultation with historians what the appropriate format and the appropriate date of such a day should be, so that everyone can feel at home. i am a historian myself, and i think that if we just tie that day to the molotov-ribbentrop pact, that does not do justice to all that happened in the 20th century. the discussion is important. what are the lines of demarcation between politicians and historians? what do we want to remember, and how? the debate is undoubtedly continuing. we as a group will certainly be involved in that. as an example of this i would like to show you this book which is due to be published in two weeks' time, entitled 'the politics of the past, the use and abuse of history', in which we have especially left the floor to historians and we hope that this will really contribute to the quality of the debate in this parliament and elsewhere of course.
i would like to join those who have congratulated the rapporteur. he delivered a fantastic report. i want to make a few points very quickly. first, we have seen in recent years a parallel increase in the storage of personal data by companies and governments. governments use the corporate databases, but we see that there are different levels of protection for the first and third pillars. i find that extremely worrying. secondly, and i am glad that my amendment has been adopted here, criminals are of course also profiting in many ways from the internet. identity theft is growing at an alarming rate and we must therefore ask the european commission to set up an identity theft hotline, not just for the exchange of information but also for the benefit of the victims. thirdly, there is a real need for global standards. the commission is also working on this, but such standards should be developed in an open democratic procedure and not by european commission officials negotiating with officials in the united states. finally, the european commission often speaks highly of freedom and civil rights, but i must say that in recent years, under the leadership of commissioner frattini and with the help of the council, numerous measures have been taken to enable citizens to be spied on day and night and to restrict their freedoms. it is high time to evaluate what has happened there and what effect it has had. i would therefore like to conclude with a suggestion to the commission: i urge that a separate commissioner for civil rights and civil liberties be appointed in the next term.
the european parliament has worked hard on the white paper on sport and has given massive support to the request to the european commission to come up with clear guidelines on the application of european law to sport. not only parliament but also sports organisations from all over europe have called for clarity. it is inhuman that they remain in doubt about this because in the present situation the courts have to decide on the application of european law time and again. in biarritz, the european ministers for sport repeated the request to the european commission. it is time we heard from the commission itself whether it has already started to draw up these guidelines. can the commission indicate when these guidelines will be available? is the commission prepared to organise a conference with the relevant stakeholders, including representatives from the sports world and the european parliament, in order to start or accelerate this process and provide more clarity to the european sports organisations as soon as possible? that brings me to another point which is closely related to this. the practice shows that there are no or hardly any good dialogue mechanisms in sport. the most obvious example is the debate on the amended wada anti-doping code. they cling stubbornly to unworkable rules and there is no room for any real dialogue with the european institutions and the athletes themselves to find solutions that can lead to an effective anti-doping policy that does respect the civil rights and privacy of athletes. i speak a lot to athletes and interest groups who complain about the lack of consultation and complain that wada and the international olympic committee are making demands but are not open to input themselves. the reaction of wada to yesterday's proposal from uefa and fifa already indicates that there is no question of an open attitude at all. to what extent has the european anti-doping committee itself taken the initiative to establish consultations on the protection of the civil rights of european athletes and how does the commission think a consultative framework for sport should be set up in general, but also in such cases? does the commission also believe that this consultation should be reciprocal by definition?
member of the commission. − mr president, that is true. usually questions are easier than answers and usually there are more questions than answers, but i believe that together we can find more and better answers. this is all about cooperation, not only between parliament and the commission, but especially with the world of sport associations, federations, member states and stakeholders. if they are responsible and responsive they come together and look for solutions which are acceptable and compatible with the law. otherwise we adapt and change the law, whether at national or european level. so that is how we should proceed. i look forward to maintaining this approach. i think much has changed since 2007. i do not want to repeat myself or to once again recommend reading the white paper. there is a shorter version and also a version with annexes. the first time we tried, we put together descriptions of all cases and all decisions related to sport, which made a kind of map showing how sport relates to european community law or policies. of course we are proposing further guidelines. we have proposed – and in biarritz i introduced – physical activity guidelines, which could help to promote the volume, intensity and quality of physical education training in our societies and especially in schools. it should be adopted by the council of health ministers. we do not have a sports ministers’ council, but in fact the main reason is that it is related to public health. we cannot have one large specific set of guidelines for everything. i have said that we can address specific concrete issues theme by theme rather than case by case. next i hope we can deal with licensing – how to make a more transparent and more sustainable system and create a set of principles for our licensing policies. of course uefa or its partners should have the concrete responsibility for this, but we can help. it is in our interest to promote principles such as self-regulation, transparency and sustainability, and we can make several other important contributions to improvements in licensing. we will support the anti-doping conference. this offers a great opportunity to say much more on this, but i am against the establishment of another agency or a european wada. i have also said publicly that there is nadas, the european network of cooperation between national anti-doping agencies in our countries, whether they are public or private. europe needs to be more active and more united. there are lessons to be learned from wada and we should do so quickly. there are disputes. we have spoken to ms bozkurt about this code of conduct. today i saw on television sepp blatter and john fahey, the chairman of wada, discussing how anti-doping and football competitions could go hand in hand after the code of conduct has been adopted, and there is a problem. so on anti-doping i think we need more internal cooperation in order to make europe more credible. we have the council of europe, we have a convention on this. we have many reasons to be more coherent in our contribution to the world of anti-doping or a world which fights more efficiently against doping. you have said that dialogue is not easy in this area – i mean not just regarding anti-doping but sport issues in general. it is true that sometimes it is difficult, even at international and europe level or between different disciplines or segments, but i can assure you that a culture of dialogue and openness and a readiness to engage in dialogue is growing. i took part in the opening of the eoc office in brussels, which is very close to rond point schuman and to the commission, council and parliament. this means the permanent presence of the european olympic committees and the ioc in the european institutions for the purpose of dialogue and cooperation. it says something about the importance of this and the mutual readiness to work in dialogue to find solutions. with regard to international transfers, i am also in favour of the protection of youngsters and the promotion of training and education. in 2001 we adopted decisions or agreements on international transfers. the general age level is about 18 years, but in europe there is a specific arrangement for the period between 16 and 18 years of age. unless severe or very critical problems become evident, we do not need to change but rather to promote better and more training and to work with talent in europe. that is why, for example, we supported the home-grown player rule because this mainly promotes this sort of treatment. of course it is not an absolute rule but it concerns specific arrangements. we give preference to, or promote, specificity under certain rules. we have said that we will come back to this decision in five years’ time to see what the real impact has been – not just the theory – of this new rule. ‘six plus five’, as it stands now, is simply non-compatible with eu laws, as has been shown in a study. we have spoken to them and have read the papers but there is nothing new there. in substance we cannot say that we agree with the study. but i have to say that dialogue – especially following recent events in biarritz and lausanne – is real and very concrete between the european commission and its partners, including fifa. on this specific matter of ‘six plus five’ we will continue further. even fifa says that there is no reason for a hurried approach but rather a need for very concrete and credible answers. they do not want to get into formal disputes. we agreed to make room for more expertise and for more exchange. i think that is very beneficial. on the lisbon treaty and the recognition of specificity, two special clauses are included in article 149 of the treaty on european union regarding education, youth and sport. it also concerns the level of competence. this is only supportive action so the union will not have any power to decide but only to support member states in the promotion of the integrity of sportsmen and sportswomen. it could be helpful to organise a sports council as we have for education and youth, which will perhaps be the enlarged format. it could help to build the first eu sport policy and sport programme but will not mean a change of architecture or a general derogation. theme-by-theme specificity, which is real and does not mean business as usual, must be defendable vis-à-vis the system or the european court. my opinion only reflects the commission’s opinion. our opinion is not the final one when it comes to explanation of european union law. especially in this area many issues are interlinked. we would like to promote an increased legal certainty, which is why we started the process. the white paper is there and the pierre de coubertin action plan helps to make it more readable and more concrete but it is a process. with the treaty we can help even more but, without it, we will have to stay only at the level we have reached now. i spoke about transfers under 18 years of age. with regard to this, fifa made a very good decision, not only on transfers but on the promotion and protection of minors in sport – in football – and i think this is the right approach. so in some areas uefa sets a good example, for instance concerning home-grown players, and in some areas fifa sets a good example, for instance concerning the protection of minors. i think we can help both and it is important that this is also compatible within the world of football. last but not least – and i am sorry to have given a long answer – with regard to a forum on sport, which mr heaton-harris mentioned, we have actually established this. in biarritz we had a ministerial conference with major partners, but before that there was a forum with more than 200 stakeholders from very different areas of sport. it was a very positive, communicative and open forum and we want to continue with this. i believe that, under the swedish, or especially under the spanish, presidency, we can hold another one to reflect on the progress we have made and to make a commitment to go further. that is where i was when i started answering the questions – working together in a transparent, regular and credible manner. if that is the case, europe is a leading area where sport is protected and promoted, and where we fight against negative phenomena such as doping, corruption, violence and racism around sport. i would like to invite you to share this approach because we do not have a better one. we do not want to impose anything again but rather to propose, protect and support. that is my answer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the sea by ships. however, on various beaches in south asia, huge discarded seagoing vessels are still being scrapped under conditions that are not only unfriendly to the environment but also to people. in bangladesh, for example, none of the 36 sites for demolition meets the minimum environmental and safety standards. the positive thing is that a week ago the supreme court ordered the government of bangladesh to close these so-called demolition yards within two weeks. the same supreme court has also ruled that no ship with dangerous substances may enter bangladesh. in addition, the bangladesh minister for the environment must adopt rules on the recycling of scrap vessels in accordance with the basel convention within three months. these are precisely the important measures which the european parliament is proposing in accordance with last year's resolution. you'd think the supreme court in bangladesh would have read our resolution. i regard this ruling as an important victory in the fight against the unacceptable practices mentioned earlier. it is very important that the government of bangladesh follow up the legal rulings. this is not only true of bangladesh, but also of other asian countries. i have already pointed out that the efforts of individual states will not be sufficient. a global solution to the problem of the scrapping fleet remains urgently needed. in may of this year, a global conference will be held in hong kong by the international maritime organization. the aim of this conference is to reach a global agreement on the recycling of scrapped ships. the resolution by the committee on the environment should send a clear message to the council and the commission for the negotiations to be conducted with the aim of achieving the best possible result. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, it should be clear that discarded ships containing dangerous substances should be considered as hazardous waste and thus be covered by the basel convention. it is not in the interests of environmental protection to continue debating the definitions. amendment no 1 by the epp group slightly weakens this position and i cannot therefore support it. secondly, the beaching of ships for on-site dismantling must be considered unacceptable. thirdly, it is necessary that measures be taken before the end of the long ratification period, particularly in connection with the phasing out of single-hull tankers. fourthly, the certification of demolition yards is welcomed. fifthly, a compulsory fund should remain part of the measures under producer responsibility. this was stated by the european parliament last year. however, it seems that the european commission is coming back to this position. i would therefore like to hear from commissioner figel that the commission is still prepared to set up a demolition fund. with this resolution, which is added to last year's resolution, we as the european parliament are setting out a clear line towards a solution to the problems mentioned. i am glad to see that there is a great deal of agreement on this subject in the committee on the environment and in the committee on transport. i hope that the council and the commission will make the same concerted effort to conclude a good treaty in hong kong in two months' time, with the interests of safety, the environment and public health properly safeguarded. i would like to hear from commissioner figel whether this clear line will be used by the commission as a basis for negotiations at the imo conference and what measures the european commission will take to ensure the timely implementation and execution of the convention to be concluded.
on behalf of the pse-group. – mr president, i totally agree with our colleague, mr caspary, that we should postpone not only the final vote on the resolution but also the vote on his report – the assent report – because it was very clear in yesterday’s debate that the council in particular was not prepared to give the european parliament sufficient opportunity and the possibility to really monitor the situation in turkmenistan and have an impact on the situation there on the basis of such an agreement. since we did not get sufficient guarantees, we also support mr caspary’s proposal to postpone these votes.
in writing. the european parliament's vvd members voted in favour of the siekierski report because they are in favour of providing food to the poorest people in the eu. the report also calls for the establishment of a european food safety authority (efsa) to monitor the safety of foodstuffs and to ensure that they are not used in the production of foodstuffs.
in writing. - on behalf of the dutch cda delegation, i would like to make a statement of vote on the batzeli report. as far as we are concerned, that report certainly does not deserve a beauty award. many points are either clumsily described or are doubled in number. we also question certain demands which tend too much towards socialist state intervention. we also have questions about an absolute ban on selling below cost. that may sound sympathetic, but it's hardly feasible. in agriculture we consider this an important point. in the case of dumping, the competition authority must of course take action. we have voted for the batzelli report, however, because it contains a number of important elements which the alternative resolution is seeking to remove, in particular the study of the margins in the various links in the food production chain and the call to the european commission to look at the power of supermarkets in the field of competition, as has been repeatedly requested by the european parliament. we understand from the european commission that the marginal study can be carried out partly on the basis of existing data known within the commission and therefore also assume that this study will not entail a significant increase in the administrative burden.
president. - there is no doubt that russia is today fully involved in the global economic crisis. this morning i heard on the radio a scathing report from st petersburg about medicines that are unaffordable and therefore unavailable to the average russian citizen. the latest forecasts from the world bank indicate even more severe weather for the russian economy. what about the gloomy prediction that by the end of this year more than 20 million russians may fall below the subsistence level of 4,600 rubles (about $185)? indeed, europe and russia both face the urgency of vigorous crisis management. joint efforts to improve the global economic climate therefore deserve priority. but the precondition for this is mutual trust, and i would like to stress that, because the kremlin's foreign policy unfortunately stands in the way of that. think of the crisis in moldova, which is continuing and getting more complicated with a bad role for smirnoff. and think of the turmoil in ukraine last week. in short, the lack of mutual trust is hampering joint efforts. in this report parliament is sending that honest and clear message to the council and the commission for the negotiations with moscow and, i hope very much, is turning its back on the russians.
president. - as the chairman of the delegation for relations with russia, i have spent the last two and a half years working very intensively on russia and europe. i have not only dealt with incidents, but i have also looked at the long-term strategy with an open mind. so i really do not understand what graham watson, the chairman of the alde group, has said here. because i have not been one-sided in all these debates, and neither have my colleagues. we discussed the many problems with russia. but let us not forget that if we want to conclude a partnership agreement, we also want to be partners. this means that both sides must consult each other on difficult matters. indeed, a partnership agreement can only come about when you trust each other and not when you have only one eye on the problems. the united states has a different strategy at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that's not wise. we need a partnership agreement, a strategic partnership, because we have only one big neighbour. we depend on that neighbour for our energy supply and they depend on our financial resources. but because we have values to defend in europe, we also talk to them about shared values and human rights. for the new strategy we really need with this great neighbour, it is not a good start to look at everything from the negative side. i therefore thank the commissioner for her reply, which contains positive elements for actually achieving something that is good for 500 million european citizens.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs oomen-ruijten on what she has just said. i wholeheartedly agree with her argument and i hope that it will also influence the voting behaviour of her group tomorrow when our amendments to this report are put to the vote. i wish her the best of luck. my group has great difficulty with the present report by mr onyszkiewicz, and that is why we voted against it in the committee on foreign affairs. it is comprehensive - and rightly so - and the agenda for eu-russia relations is indeed extensive. the rapporteur, and i congratulate him on that, has tried to bring all these issues into the report. but the tone is wrong. we cannot say that these relations are of crucial importance - as the rapporteur does - and then just give examples of everything that is wrong and wrong in russia, without also having regard to the mistakes we ourselves have made in the past, over the last 20 years, with regard to the russian federation. russia is not a candidate country but a strategic partner willing to cooperate in areas of common interest. you have to be constructive and rational. and i agree with minister vondra that that should be the basis of our approach. the copenhagen criteria do not apply here, although that impression is sometimes given. i am in favour of a pragmatic approach based on interdependence. they need us and we need them. whether it's in the area of trade, energy cooperation, climate, or nuclear non-proliferation, solutions can only be found together. that is the underlying strategic importance - we use the word strategic in this debate - of the negotiations on a new agreement. we must do so in good faith, with due regard for russia's interests. our rapporteur rightly pays a great deal of attention to the neighbouring countries which the european union shares with russia. here again, cooperation is more effective than confrontation. we want to avoid a battle for spheres of influence at all costs. instead, the european union should be working to revive a weakened osce, the organization for security and cooperation in europe. in that context, we can also look at how to better address these frozen conflicts that we still have in europe, whether in georgia, azerbaijan or moldova. of course, not everything is cake and egg. the report rightly addresses this. we condemn and condemned the russian invasion of georgia. we are concerned about authoritarian tendencies in russia. the dialogue cannot therefore be only positive, and as a member of the council of europe russia can do better. but nevertheless, with all due respect to the rapporteur, where is the reset in his story? continuing to polarize now that the u.s. government is moving to a new approach to russia is counterproductive. our problems are global, and to solve them, we need everyone.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, on monday the daughter of a friend of mine received a letter. she got rejected for college. not because she's intellectually incapable, but because she's disabled. according to the letter, the university can't provide her with the care she needs. she did well in high school, so she could. now she's on the sidelines. the report we are discussing today touches the heart of our society. do we want people to be second-class citizens because of their age, their sexual orientation, their religion or belief or disability, or do we choose a society in which everyone can participate fully? it is not only the people themselves who are wronged when they are denied a house or a loan because of who they are, but society as a whole is wronged by writing people off. i've been looking forward to this day with great anticipation. there's a lot at stake in the vote tomorrow. since 1995, the european parliament has been calling for european directives on equal treatment for men and women, and in the treaty of amsterdam we have finally obtained a legal basis for this. in 2000, important guidelines were issued: the directive on equal treatment irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, whose scope includes both the labour market and the supply of goods and services, and the directive on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, age, disability and religion or belief, which is confined to the labour market. this was beginning to change, because discrimination against women is also prohibited in many areas. as a parliament we have always opposed this hierarchy of discriminatory grounds that has arisen. because why is it that a person can be denied a loan because he's gay, but not because he's black? the protection must be equivalent. we have been advocating this horizontal directive together and there are differences between us: i think that the commission has a duty to do more than just to give the people what they want. but so far a large majority of parliament has wanted to see the present skewed situation corrected and that is the message we must give to the council tomorrow. i hope for the greatest possible majority. there are many people i would like to thank for their contribution to the report. first of all, the rapporteurs for opinion, and in particular liz lynne of the committee on social affairs. many of her suggestions are now in the text. i also want to thank the shadow reporters patrick gaubert, emine bozkurt, sophia in the field and yvonne kaufmann. in english, we have a saying "jumping over your own shadow", which means you want to look beyond the point you've always hammered, a good point for shadow reporters. i think we've done that. i am very proud of the compromise which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the libe committee. it's getting better. i want to thank a lot of other people who have contributed to this, but one in particular, and that's michael cashman. michael, i want to thank you for all the advice you've given me, for the lobbying, and also for the inspiration and friendship over the years. the contents now: the report states that discrimination on the four grounds is prohibited. we had already done so in the labour market, but now we are doing so in the provision of goods and services, social protection - including social security and health care - and education. but not every difference is also seen as discrimination. for example, insurance companies may still discriminate on the basis of age and disability, provided they can objectively justify this. many disabled people need to be provided for, but there are limits to reasonableness. so there is a conditional derogation, but the rule is equal treatment, and that is what the vote will be on tomorrow. do we think that europe is only a market, or is it also a source of civilization? i must say that amendment no 81 at least shows where mr weber and 41 others stand. you do not want equal treatment legislation anyway, because no matter how i try to compromise, you are simply opposed to an anti-discrimination law on principle. that's why you're not amending it, but you're taking the whole proposal off the table. then our paths part here, too, there's no middle ground. we shall see tomorrow which way the majority of this house will go.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against discrimination. we have a rather strange situation at the moment. there are differences in protection against discrimination. it is not possible to explain why a person who is black and gay is protected by the law against discrimination outside the workplace on the basis of the colour of his skin, but not on the basis of his sexual orientation. tomorrow we can show that we as a european parliament will no longer tolerate discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or religious belief. europe is for everyone. it is not possible that someone who wants to rent a car or a house will be refused on the basis of his religion. and people in wheelchairs must be able to use the keys of the atm machine or have access to a train or station. it is not possible to explain why someone over 65 can be in the red for thousands of euros at a bank, but cannot get a modest loan from the same bank. today we all get a day older. think about it . it's about things that will affect us in the future. these differences of opinion did not make the negotiations easy, but we can be proud of the result that came out of the libe committee, to which all the parties committed themselves. the proposal is reasonable and realistic. in the case of people with disabilities, adjustments may be necessary to provide them with access to goods and services, for example, but it does mean that they can again participate actively in society. these adjustments should not be disproportionately burdensome and due account has also been taken of a good implementation timeframe. adjustments do not have to be made immediately. we do not expect member states to adapt railway stations directly. we do ask the member states to consider accessibility for people with disabilities in future building and transport designs. and i cannot stress enough how important this report will be to the citizens of europe, the people it is about. please remember that according to eurobarometer, 87% of europeans would like to see measures to address the discriminatory grounds for this directive. so are your constituents, mr. weber. our socialist group is very pleased with the proposals against the problem of multiple discrimination which are now part of this report. can you imagine a black woman in a wheelchair feeling discriminated against? very few countries have the concept of multiple discrimination. in most cases, the woman would have to choose the grounds on which she was discriminated against when filing a complaint. it is more likely that she is not discriminated against on one ground only, but that the various grounds are interrelated. this woman must be able to complain and to get justice. we therefore call on parliament to maintain these important provisions. i ask you, colleagues, to support this directive. this is an opportunity for parliament to say clearly and unequivocally that discrimination must no longer be tolerated and that the european parliament attaches equal importance to the rights of all its citizens. let's take that step.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report, which i think is a very good one. my group is very pleased that, almost five years after mr barroso's promise, a proposal for a directive is finally on the table. discrimination is contrary to the european treaties, the charter of fundamental rights and the convention on human rights. but treaties and solemn declarations are of little use in court. european citizens must have an instrument to enforce their rights. that is the raison d'être of the european union, mr weber, not the milk quotas or the procurement rules or the structural funds, but a european area where everyone can make his own life as he sees fit and in freedom. a single european area, where everyone is equal before the law, has equal opportunities in society and is treated with respect. a directive is not enough, but it is a prerequisite. this directive is about europe as a community of values, and values cannot be negotiated by 27 governments in the usual exchange of national interests. we define values together as citizens, in open debate, and the european parliament is the appropriate arena for that. yes, mr. weber, some issues are very sensitive, particularly the grounds of sexual orientation and religion. but we have a responsibility to all citizens, all european citizens, because europe must not become an animal farm: "all europeans are equal, but some europeans are more equal than others". freedom of religion and conscience are fundamental rights for which i will go on the barricades. in a free europe, everyone must be free to follow his or her own beliefs. that is the cornerstone of democracy. but freedom of religion should not be misused as a license to discriminate against others. yesterday, the european agency for fundamental rights published its second report on homophobia in europe. it is shameful that in europe in 2009 millions of people still have to fear discrimination, hatred, violence and even murder, purely because of their sexual orientation. i can reassure manfred weber: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to marry is and remains a national competence and this directive does not alter this. but in 21st century europe, banning marriage on the basis of religion, race or sexual orientation is an anomaly. many people find it perfectly acceptable for the government to ban marriage or partnership between two adults of the same sex. but would we accept - as has happened in history - that the government should prohibit marriage between jews and non-jews, between catholics and protestants, between whites and blacks? that is unacceptable. ladies and gentlemen, please vote for this report in the interests of the citizens whom we all represent. compromise is not ideal for anyone, including us. but let's, as kathalijne says, jump over our own shadow. finally, i urge the council to follow parliament's recommendations. each member state has its own issues, but the european parliament is showing that differences can be bridged and that we can agree on rights for all european citizens.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). one of those freedoms is the freedom of education. an important freedom is the choice of school for their children by parents. christian schools and institutions in my country consciously choose to formulate an admissions policy consistent with the identity of that school. in the netherlands, there is scope for an admission policy in accordance with the foundation of the school. requirements may be made which are necessary to achieve the purpose and basis. parents choose a school that is principled in that regard and that takes the bible seriously. this is a consequence of freedom of religion and belief for parents, in the interests of their child's education. amendments nos 29 and 51 restrict the freedom of schools to make their own choices in principle, and i also share the view of mr weber and others. this proposal is not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. apart from the administrative problems, this seems to me to be sufficient reason to reject the commission's proposal. i shall vote against the report by mr buitenweg. i hope that other groups will also see that this is a serious infringement of the freedoms of our citizens. if we value the freedom of choice of parents, we will not allow it to be restricted.
president. - i thank the rapporteur first of all. i can't say it enough, she did an excellent job. not an easy job. some of my colleagues have been found to have extra-long toes. the basic principle of this directive is crystal clear. equal treatment for all: gay-straight, woman-man, old-young, colored-white, disabled or not, religious or humanist, and so on. his right, mr. weber, his right is her right, our rights are their rights and your rights are our rights. and that, mr vanhecke, who has already left the debate, has nothing to do with so-called political correctness. the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur have made a great deal of effort to reach this compromise, to reach a compromise which the ppe-de could also agree to. the text is not perfect for anyone, and i can only hope that between now and tomorrow's vote a large majority of the christian democrats will come to their senses. i am in favour of freedom of religion, but to use the bible to put yourself above another and to dismiss equal opportunities as meaningless bureaucracy, that, mr weber, is a piece of gossip.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, it is extremely difficult for a rapporteur to work well when the largest group is pursuing a kind of flip-flop policy. in the libe committee the ppe-de group was in favour of this report because it was a reasonable compromise. we have been working with mr patrick gaubert, who i believe has now disappeared under the sofa. i haven't seen him since. but at least we have worked together on exactly the same text and there you are! it seems that the coordinator, mr weber, is imposing his german national party position on the ppe-de group. mr weber, you told me last week that the point is not the content but the political signal. is it true or not? did you say that to me? well, then you cannot hide behind details now, because then you could have simply tabled amendments. you didn't. you just want a complete rejection of the entire proposal. you just don't want it, so don't pretend the end goal is the same. i've heard a lot of things that have simple answers. for example, many people ask: 'what is europe doing?' but there are already many directives that have long provided protection in the labour market, there is also protection against discrimination on many other grounds outside the labour market, but for some people, for example in the case of disability, age, sexual orientation and religion, protection has been left behind. so this is not a whole new invention, this is a repair of existing legislation. it is not a new competence, it is simply ensuring that people are treated equally and not that we consider some categories more important than others. mr pirker was talking about the labour market. we're not talking about that at all. that was a different directive. this isn't about teachers getting hired. let's stick to the facts. the burden of proof is a delicate one. the commissioner has already said that. it's not new. it is also in the other directives. it's not like people can just accuse you and then you have to defend yourself. it's not about criminal justice, either. in other areas, people must first give real data, facts about why they think they have been discriminated against, and then you must tell them why you have given someone a house or not. as for the media: it's in the text, there's already a provision that you can just refuse ads if it doesn't align with the identity of your text. it's all in article 54. as for the churches: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. in the netherlands, for example, they do some of the welfare work. it cannot be that just because they belong to a church they are exempt from social duties. that is the very specific points mentioned in it. we did our best. we've been facilitating your life all along. your amendments are also in the text, and yet you are going to vote against them because of all sorts of party political views. i have to say: i feel really touched, because i reached out my hand to you. a lot of your texts are in it and i find it outrageous that you're taking your hands off of it now!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, there was some confusion today about this statement by the commission, but it is clear that the oral questions put by the ppe-de group form the basis of your statement today. these oral questions arise from the great concern, despite the commission's efforts, for the practical implementation of these regulations. if i drive my car for one minute in one country because i have to move the car, then i could be faced with sky-high fines in another country weeks later. this is just one example of the problems facing drivers and transportation companies. for example, it can be a huge problem to drive just a few kilometres longer to reach a safe parking place (because all parking places are interchangeable in europe) and also to reach a good parking place for the night. i am glad that you have taken some action and that you are going to present the report. i would ask you in that report to look not only at the introduction of the rules but also at the regulations themselves and to make a broad evaluation giving the sector the opportunity to inform you of the concerns i have just mentioned. so a broad evaluation, so we can see where the improvements can be made. the disadvantage of these guidelines is that, as far as i understand, they have not yet been enacted in the member states. if drivers invoke these guidelines, they may end up with nothing because they are not legally valid. so there's a problem with that. commissioner barrot, i am pleased that you are replacing commissioner tajani today with your expertise and i sincerely hope that you can commit to that broad evaluation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). since the regulation came into force, complaints have been made about its unclear and unreasonable application. that is where action must be taken. the regulation needs to be revised quickly. what's better than that? the legislation must be predictable. i am not advocating the harmonization of all sanctions. that should remain a competence of the member states. i do advocate a clear, predictable and reasonable system. it is the only way to avoid completely irrational fines, unreasonable fines and extremely long fines. the current legislation seems to allow for discrimination against mainly foreign truck drivers on european roads, and that is unacceptable. this problem is nothing less than a serious disturbance of the internal market. finally, a brief example of the unreasonableness of the current regulation on driving and rest periods. a driver drives through france and is fined 750 euros for not getting 15 minutes of rest. the fine will also take six hours to process. this means that the driver cannot load and unload that day, with all the consequences of that. the actual damage of the fine for the 15-minute violation is thus approximately eur 1,750. the commission must take a much tougher line against member states which are guilty of such distortions of the internal market. from the dutch perspective, i think it is mainly in the southern direction.
president. - thank you to mrs linda mcavan and mr tatarella for their excellent work on the eco-labels and the emas scheme. the environmentally conscious consumer can choose from a variety of labels, many of which relate to organic products. the european quality mark covers all products and is a very valuable complement to them. but the european environmental label has been in decline for years. i only know the little star-spangled flower from a brand of toilet paper. so it is good that new rules are coming to make the quality mark better and more known. member states should ensure that the eco-label is better known to the general public. the european eco-label must have clear criteria and can put an end to the proliferation of all kinds of well-intentioned labels. a widely used and recognisable quality label can be an incentive for manufacturers to improve their products and use less material and energy and recycle much more. of course, this requires clear criteria. products will rightly have to meet new and strict criteria to claim the eco-label. the criteria will be based on a scientific analysis of the entire life cycle of products, and that is very good. in the end, only the best 10 to 20% of products per category can be awarded the eco-label. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs also propose to examine whether food and drink could also be covered by the quality label. i think that this must be done quickly, not only for the fisheries sector but also for a number of other sectors. the food and food industry are a major burden on the environment and the eco-label can at least provide a solution to this. i also agree with what was said by mr mcavan and mr wijkman at the beginning of this debate: it is important to build incentives for environmentally friendly production for energy efficiency right now and this legislation will help to do that.
in writing. − the cda has always been strongly in favour of rules for the equal treatment of persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the cda is therefore in the spirit of this directive. a law like that has to be well-constructed. the cda considers many legal definitions in the text to be extremely unclear and expects - like many others - that the text will provide a basis for all kinds of proceedings before the court. the cda is against the motion to reverse the burden of proof. to us, a man is innocent until proven guilty. the cda cannot agree with the proposal that it is up to the accused to prove his innocence. we also regret that the socialists and liberals, apparently under pressure from the elections, have thrown the text out of balance by adding many new elements or by voting in split votes. for this reason, the cda could not support the report.
in writing. - today, together with the euro-critical part of my group, i voted in favour of the buitenweg report on equal treatment for men and women. we are very much in agreement with the substance of her proposals and therefore regret the many votes against by those who want more europe. it is a pity that other parties have sown doubt beforehand about the self-evidence of our proposal. the question of whether the eu should acquire more powers is often raised in national parliaments and national governments of the eu member states. this extension of powers is often at the expense of lower-level decision-making, which guarantees the greatest influence on those involved. in such cases my party, the socialist party in the netherlands, objects. in the european parliament, on the other hand, the main issue is how the eu exercises its powers, with emphasis on content. in that case we always vote for what we consider an improvement and against what we consider a deterioration. that choice does not mean that we prefer not to leave these kinds of issues to the council, which can set a european average that is worse than what we have achieved in the netherlands and in a number of other member states.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on totalitarianism, contrary to the opinion of my group, which considered it unnecessary. i choose to mark a radical break with all attempts to achieve political ends through violence, deprivation of liberty, intimidation and other forms of oppression. the 20th century was the century of great popular movements blinded by the thought that they were at the end of history. to organize the ideal world for them, and to protect it forever from change, every crime was permitted. for one, that ideal world consisted of the equality of all people, strong public services, the means of production in the hands of the people and the abolition of all old privileges for privileged groups. for the other, it was about preserving traditions, inequality, positions of power and privilege. i agree with the first group and disagree with the second. their violence has made both groups forever hating each other. no one remembers their aims, but everyone knows the means they used. that era should be over for good. although i disagree with some of the wording, i think this resolution is necessary.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs and mr audy, who, in my opinion, gave an excellent speech. i also thank the commissioner and the commission services. they have always been open to parliament and i have greatly appreciated that. there were occasional disagreements, but why not? i think the commission should be judged on what it said at the beginning of the period and on its present performance. the commission has not been able to achieve what it had in mind, namely a positive das. in fact, she's come a long way from it, and that's a problem. the commissioner has made some very interesting suggestions. it is a pity that these suggestions come at the end of the period. it would have been possible - i do not know - if we had been able to discuss this three years after he took office, because there were a lot of interesting suggestions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. can we leave that to the member states or not and how can we better control the member states? we have said in the interinstitutional agreement that we want statements at a certain political level. that is translated in the financial regulation. the big question for me has always been: is this enough or not? i do not have enough insight into that at the moment. i thank the commissioner for the detailed report he has sent, but it is not entirely clear to me. where are the carrots for the member states that are doing well and the sticks for the member states that are not doing well? it is not clear to me and that should be part of the policy. i think that the debate on positive das should be intensively continued. it is certainly bad for public opinion if the situation continues with a negative sda.
the first signs of economic recovery being forecast by the central banks of europe and america, there is no room for relaxation in the implementation of directives to prevent a repetition. the role of the credit rating agencies in the credit crisis is significant. investors are blindly guided by the display of these agencies without consulting third parties. the failure to adjust the ratings adequately in a changing market has several causes. these causes cannot all be prevented by new rules. the formulation of a requirement to be established within the european union for the exercise of credit rating activities is a good start, but given the global nature of the market, it is only a start. the european commission must work quickly to harmonize directives with third countries and therefore it is preferable to work centrally in this field within the european union. it is clear that more is needed to restore confidence in financial markets. let us therefore begin a new financial morality.
i would like to make a preliminary remark. i listen with amazement to all kinds of speeches given by members of this house about leadership and tackling capitalism. these are all members whom we would never have seen if we had been doing the proper job of putting that capital in the right direction. i was a shadow rapporteur on mrs weber's report and she is an example of someone who has done that job in a dossier on modernising, simplifying and reducing the burden on businesses in european rules. the dossier was part of a larger package of better regulation and i would like to stress that better regulation is not just a matter of deregulation and the removal of burdens, but also of responding more adequately, more flexibly and more dynamically to developments with clear powers, especially for the supervisors, who play a role in this. i would like to highlight two aspects in this connection, also in relation to the other two dossiers on the agenda today. firstly, we must not try to solve the problems of yesterday but rather anticipate the future and set up a process which can respond adequately to dynamic developments and innovations. the lamfalussy procedure, which we have recently developed, is precisely the process we have set up for this purpose. secondly, you have to look at the level of oversight. the players in the market have become cross-border, international. so you must not think that you can control these actors with national small supervisors. these big players, who are very much dominating that market, you really have to tackle them at european and global level. i think that means that you have to establish powers at that level to be able to exercise direct supervision. well, with the rating agencies, we would have had that option. the original intention of parliament was to give the european committee cesr the power to regulate registration. unfortunately, that has not been possible, because there will be a new tug of war between, in particular, the big countries, the big financial centres, to attract those headquarters and yet to play the first violin there to have those big rating agencies under their wings. i'm sorry about that. i would have preferred to see this happen at european level immediately. we saw the same thing with solvency ii. nor has there been any decisive action in the area of the granting of powers to make binding decisions at european level in the event of disagreement between supervisory authorities. that also means that those guest supervisors don't want to delegate authority to a supervisor who's playing the first fiddle. it is regrettable, but there are provisions in it, including in recital 25, where we as parliament clearly state that we must try to improve and strengthen that aspect next year on the basis of the de larosière proposals.
- i'm the reporter. - i can be very short. we had the first reading of this report a little over a year ago. we in parliament then called for better information to be given to the workers concerned or to european citizens who take advantage of the freedom of movement. the negotiations were opened on the proposal of the european parliament and after the council of ministers had adopted its position, and we were able to conclude them successfully. i would also like to thank the members, and in particular mr jean lambert. we have been able to work well with the european commission. the czech presidency has also seen the importance of this dossier and i think we have achieved a good result, also for all those who want to be free in europe. i'd like to leave it at that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of cabotage. the current rules, it has been said, are too vague because of the term 'temporary'. this is a good excuse for several member states to further isolate their own market, and that is what we have seen. to make it clear once and for all, the commission said: we're launching a proposal to solve all of this. i expect a lot from this. however, the commission has proposed, remarkably, that cabotage should be strictly regulated. remarkable because the existing rules were considered all along as an intermediate step to full freedom. this is 2009 and we were supposed to be going to full freedom. both the commission and the council said that. i regard the agreement before us today, which we are voting on tomorrow, as a great disappointment. instead of more freedom, the carriers are faced with more restrictions. of course we need a european approach. i agree with that too. the sector should not have to face national pressure for another day. but this agreement, mr president, is not at all consistent with the principles and objectives of the internal market. the arguments in favour of road safety, the environment and a reduction in administrative burdens are not in this case relevant. there will be no real free market, mr commissioner, and every restriction will lead to more transport movements. it is not workable, mr simpson. the alde group does not consider the principle of 'something is better than nothing' to be an option. it's not gonna work in this one.
on behalf of the ind/dem group if i had predicted in the 1980s that we would still have cabotage restrictions in 2009, my audience would have laughed at me. restrictions on cabotage are by definition flagrant violations of the rules of the european internal market. now, in 2009, we are in danger of being left empty-handed again at second reading. i will of course support the amendments tabled by my liberal colleagues, but the epp is deliberately refusing to stand up and, incidentally, is skillfully turning the future of the road transport sector upside down. the fact that the 12-day scheme is in the proposals does not please me, but the fact that the end date for cabotage restrictions has been used as a bargaining chip does not please me. if amendments nos 17 and 18 are not adopted, i shall therefore vote against the final result. i refuse to support a proposal which is bad for the environment, which is bad for the transport sector and which also seriously undermines the functioning of the european internal market.
the good news in the proposal we are discussing now is that the 12-day rule for bus transport has been abolished. i'd like to start with that. however, as far as cabotage is concerned, the proposal is downright disappointing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that is why we christian democrats, but also colleagues from other groups, had tabled proposals at first reading to lift the restriction by 2014. but it has become clear in recent months that the member states are blocking this proposal, despite the efforts of our rapporteur, mr mathieu grosch, to get a date. a hard blockade, mr president, and that is really bad news. protectionism in times of crisis is the worst thing for europe, because as commissioner tajani says: it's a waste of money and it's bad for the environment. that is why the cda will vote against this proposal, although we are aware that at the moment it is the member states who impose the blockade and unfortunately we cannot break through it. the proposal is not correct in substance and is not sustainable. so it's not just bad legislation in times of crisis, it's also symbolic legislation. i would therefore also like to encourage the commissioner, mr president, not to sit on the sidelines and to take back the initiative, the right of initiative that he has in the coming years to get that restriction on cabotage abolished. he will find the christian democrats on his side.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the first question is: what is the government doing and what are we letting the market do through tendering? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. new rules on the carriage of passengers by bus must not lead to the disturbance of the freedom of local authorities to organise their own public transport. the choice is always between two alternatives as regards passenger rights. the first is to emphasise maximum information on the continuation of the journey in other member states, the availability of cross-border transport licences and well-regulated long-distance connections, so as to avoid any unpleasant surprises during the journey. the other emphasizes ex post financial compensation for delays and interruptions in services. i always support the first, but parliament votes in the majority for the second, especially since the same choice has been made for air transport. the increased attention to people with disabilities is an important reason to support the proposals, even if they are not perfect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. he has produced a good report in close cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. the report makes it very clear that urban mobility is a part of the transport sector where there are many challenges and opportunities. challenges in the field of european climate objectives, congestion reduction, road safety and user-friendliness, and opportunities in the field of sustainable economic development and, closely related to this, the growth of inland navigation. the report is of excellent quality and rightly takes account of the principle of subsidiarity, so i should like to briefly touch on the relationship between urban mobility and the inland waterway sector. sustainable economic development in europe, including in transport and urban areas, will not be possible to a large extent without the use of inland waterways. many european cities have inland waterways and therefore the capacity to meet growing transport demand in a sustainable way. the growth of inland waterway transport does not require major infrastructure investments, does not contribute to congestion in european cities and does not lead to an increase in environmental and climate problems in european cities, provided that inland waterway transport has clean engines and clean fuel. if inland waterway capacity is naturally present in european cities, it must be used and stimulated. the future of urban mobility is thus closely linked to the future of inland navigation. i therefore ask the european commission to keep the interests of inland waterway transport in mind when drawing up new legislation on urban mobility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i am grateful to the european commission for coming forward with proposals to lower the thresholds for this fund and i am glad that mr stockmann has taken up these proposals with a sense of urgency. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. there is, however, a problem. this reduction is not yet large enough. in the committee on transport, mr wortmann-kool and i have successfully remedied this problem. i regret, however, that mr stockmann considers this amendment no 24 to be undesirable. i know him to be a great supporter of inland navigation and i had hoped that he would be pleased with such amendments. the commission's proposed threshold is still far too high for the small businessman, which is almost by definition the inland shipowner. i do not understand why the other institutions are opposed to amendment no 24. we have a fund with a lot of money for sustainable transport. inland waterway transport is by far the cleanest mode of transport. why should we not lower the threshold for this sector even further? i think the european commission is afraid that such proposals will encourage some member states in the council to demand other reductions as well. i would ask the european commission to keep its back straight and to recognise unequivocally the importance of inland waterway transport as the cleanest mode of transport here too.
for the pse group crossborder freight trains are moving at an average speed of 18 km per hour across the european union. in 2007, only 60% of all freight trains arrived on time. - why? - why? because international rail freight transport is still very inefficiently organized. the rail freight transport can of course never compete with road transport in this way. nor will it affect europe's environmental objectives and our commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. the european commission's proposal aims to create a competitive rail freight network in the european union. this can be achieved by creating cross-border corridors, by increasing cooperation between infrastructure managers and better coordination of investments between member states and by better agreeing on priority in the event of delays. this will greatly improve the capacity and competitiveness of the rail network. the commission's original proposal to give priority to freight trains in the event of delays went too far. but i have, thanks to good cooperation with the rapporteur, reached an excellent compromise which provides flexibility and a pragmatic approach. unfortunately, the albertini proposal leaves this important aspect of the proposal empty-handed. the social democrats will therefore vote against amendment no 71. however, the proposal as it stands will encourage people to cooperate and will give users and market players a say in planning and implementation. it is time to finally work together on a genuine single market for rail transport and thus invest in a green, sustainable future.
this directive concerns patients. i cannot stress this enough, because we have of course talked about a lot of other things in the context of crossborder health care: the free movement of medical services and what should happen to the health care market. we are not talking about that very explicitly. we are talking about a pragmatic approach. how can we make the system work for the benefit of the patients? and if we don't, who will? patients are in such a vulnerable position! you don't want people who are sick to have to fight another battle with cold-blooded health bureaucrats, who look at health policy on their spreadsheets, on their computers with numbers and statistics. that can't be the case. it is therefore also a social directive. crossborder care has of course been possible for a long time for those who can afford it, but for those who cannot afford it something must also be done. that is what we are talking about today, mr president. it is also for this reason that our group attaches importance to prior authorization, which is of course a crucial element here, madam minister. i am very grateful to the council for being here today. prior authorization, not to make cross-border care impossible, not at all. but it is to prevent serious undermining of national systems. we agree with that and we go further than we might normally have done. however, a compromise is necessary. we do believe that exceptions for rare diseases or life-threatening situations on waiting lists are necessary. we would like to see the definition of hospital care adopted at european level and not in the individual member states, simply to ensure legal certainty for patients and security for those national systems. we also believe that patients who are already so ill should not be subjected to a lengthy legal procedure if something goes wrong, but that a system of a european patient ombudsman should be set up. we have of course had a conflict in the committee on health and i call on the colleagues on the left to put that ideology aside and to ensure that we come up with a good directive for patients and a pragmatic approach. i have listened with great respect to what mrs roth-behrendt has said here. finally, a big thank you indeed to rapporteur john bowis. he has done a great job and i wish him well from here.
i would also like to thank mr bowis very much. he has worked very hard on this report and i hope he will be better very soon. i must say, however, that under the misleading label of 'patient rights', the european commission is trying to introduce market forces in health care for the whole of europe. my group is naturally in favour of more patient rights and patient mobility in border regions. we go much further than that. we believe that everyone, rich and poor, has a right to have good access to good quality health care. i have very serious problems, however, with the fact that the proposal is based on the internal market article, which already indicates that economic interests are overridden by the interests of patients. the proposal is also superfluous. the reimbursement of costs has already been arranged. the fact that some insurance companies and member states do not comply with this should be regulated better. the proposal also disproportionately interferes with a matter within the competence of a member state, thereby leading to people with large pockets having access to better care. the proposed system of fees and charges in accordance with the rules of the country of origin introduces a form of patient mobility which is contrary to the principle of equal access to health care for all. the proposal also carries a great risk that it will not be the patient's right to seek care abroad, but that insurance companies or member states may oblige the patient to go to the cheapest provider. it becomes a duty rather than a right of the patient. the fact that we have 27 different health care systems in 27 countries means that the commission's proposal, which is based solely on article 95, the infamous harmonization article, will lead to the dismantling of national health care systems and thus remove the responsibilities of the member states. we are for equal access to patients as a starting point and not for more market in care.
the report on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare has been the subject of much work over the past few months. i thank the rapporteur, mr bowis, for all his efforts and wish him a speedy recovery. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the healthcare sector. we must be careful not to go too far. health care should remain the prerogative of the member states. cooperation at eu level should not be at the expense of quality of care and of fundamental ethical choices made by member states. the diversity of ethics must be safeguarded and i am therefore pleased that this issue has been included in the report. i think the legal basis is a very difficult point. i find it unfortunate that article 95 has been chosen. the committee on legal affairs also gave its opinion. in my view, this is contrary to subsidiarity in this area of policy and makes it difficult for member states to make independent choices without the intervention of the court of justice.
president. - i have received the following motions for resolutions: the directive puts the patient at the centre, the able citizen who can and wants to choose the best treatment, preferably close by, but also far away if it is distant. we owe this legislation to very brave citizens of the european union who have gone to court to get that care across the border where their own member state has failed them in the matter of good treatment. the court of justice has found them in the right. today we are recording the decision of the court of justice and we are also formulating the conditions under which this right to crossborder care for this able-bodied citizen can be exercised. president. - this directive is great news for all people in border regions, great news for people with rare diseases, great news for people facing waiting lists, because in september the hips are going to run out. these people have a choice now. we have improved the information system, we have defined the rules for reimbursement, we have established european reference networks which ensure that the quality of care is improved. we have arranged for dispute settlement through an ombudsman, who could do otherwise. i refer to the dutch model for dispute settlement in health care which has recently been launched. we have the possibility of pilot areas which we in the border region of limburg, where i come from, would like to participate in. we also established that the health systems in the member states will not be affected. the citizens will have the right to choose, and i think that freedom of choice is very important.
i would like to begin by thanking john bowis for his very dedicated and committed commitment to public health and patient mobility and i would like to wish him a speedy recovery. health care is a national competence, but there are links with europe. patients are aware of treatment options in other countries and want to use facilities in other countries. this is especially true for patients in border regions or if there are long waiting lists in one's own country. there is nothing wrong with seeking care and treatment in other countries, but it does require proper arrangements. first of all, no forced health tourism. insurance companies should not be pressuring patients to accept cheap care elsewhere. secondly, there must be minimum guarantees of quality. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. thirdly - and this is very important - member states should retain the right to require prior authorization. health care is not a free market. to maintain facilities, planning is needed, and hospitals need to know what patient flows to expect. the most important thing for me is that this directive will help to ensure that treatment methods in particular cross the border. there is a great disparity between member states, but it is not solved by sending patients across the border, but by exchanging treatments, and this directive can contribute to that.
on behalf of the pse group, i would like to thank mr trakatellis for his excellent report. if there is one area where cooperation in europe is useful and adds value, it is in the field of rare diseases. in the case of rare metabolic diseases, muscle diseases, but also rare cancers, it is practical and useful to work together to exchange information on treatment techniques and pool forces. all very important. that information must also be made available and all these cases are covered by the trakatellis report. i would like to draw your attention to three points. first, patients must have a voice in europe. in recent years we have seen more and more well-organised patient groups finding their way to europe, to brussels. this is all very important and informative for politicians, because many of these rare diseases are, of course, very unknown. however, it is good to look at how these patient organisations are funded and it is very important to ensure that these organisations are independently funded and not dependent on the pharmaceutical industry. that is why i am calling for a system of funding for these patient organisations. secondly, the development of medicines for rare diseases, the so-called orphan medicines, is of crucial importance. we have guidelines for this, but it would be good to pay some more attention to it to see if it really works well. thirdly, a controversial subject which has also been raised by peter liese. many rare diseases are hereditary. research and embryo selection can prevent a great deal of suffering, but it is important that member states continue to decide for themselves on possible treatments such as pre-implementation and embryo selection. we support amendment no 15, but we want to remove the reference to the eradication of diseases. that, as peter liese has said, evokes very unpleasant associations. we also think it is important that treatment should be voluntary and within the limits set by national governments. if these conditions are met, we are in favour of that amendment and we are actually calling on everyone to support that amendment, but to remove the reference to the eradication of diseases. in those circumstances we can fully agree with the report and we are enthusiastic about the work of mr trakatellis. thank you for your attention.
i have a point of order under rule 168 (2). our group has tabled an amendment on the change of the legal basis, and a number of other groups have done the same. the change is that only article 95 on the internal market and therefore economic interests will now be taken as the legal basis and not article 152 on public health, which takes the patient as the starting point. in principle, the committee on the environment has asked the committee on legal affairs for an opinion, but this was only based on the original commission proposal. the bowis report has now clearly been amended, which brings patients' rights into the report and thus changes the legal basis. but now these amendments are not accepted and the fundamental change which parliament wants to make - from being market-oriented to including patient rights - is being jeopardized. i would ask that the report be referred back to the committee on the environment.
in writing. − we voted against the casaca report on the 2007 discharge of the european parliament for three reasons. firstly, we are against the situation that the meps voluntary pension fund is being funded by taxpayers’ money. secondly, we are against the situation that taxpayers’ money can be given to a private pension fund where the list of participants and beneficiaries is kept secret and is not published. thirdly, we are completely against using even more taxpayers’ money to cover the pension fund’s current deficit as a result of speculative investments. we support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the casaca report, which remedy some objections we have concerning the voluntary pension fund for meps, but because the casaca report does not change the existing situation, we have voted against giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament’s budget for the financial year 2007.
in writing. - i regret that i missed the beginning of the vote, but i fully share the thrust of the reports on discharge and the casaca report in particular. it would be irresponsible, especially in these times, to use taxpayers' money to supplement deficits in the pension fund. any shortfall in the fund is a matter for the fund and its members, not for the european taxpayer. parliamentarians have a role model and must be careful in the way they handle community funds. this applies to their income, pensions and allowances. i am therefore pleased that parliament has today adopted the report.
in writing. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. we voted in favour of the amendments which seek to give 100% of the revenue from the extension to artists. the compromise agreed is a step in the right direction, but it is certainly not yet optimal. the pvda is therefore seriously concerned about the position of smaller artists who, in exchange for the recording of a record, have to give up the income from the recording that exceeds the advance. we therefore hope that the european commission will come forward in the near future with proposals which will structurally improve the position of artists vis-à-vis record companies, including contracts covering the first 50 years of the neighbouring rights.
in writing. − more and more crossborder long-distance freight transport has shifted from rail to road. the main reasons for this are the increasing amount of motorway space, the abolition of direct rail links to businesses and the relative decline in the cost of road transport. those causes are usually forgotten. all the attention is on two other reasons. one is that there is a lack of coordination between railway companies in the different member states, which means that freight wagons have to wait unnecessarily long before being coupled behind a locomotive that will take them further. the solution is already in place in the form of fixed-shift shuttle trains. the other criticism is that this transport is slow because it has to wait for passenger trains to take priority. the duchoň report sought to abolish this priority for passenger transport. on busy routes, this may mean that the eu imposes an obligation to break through fixed hourly schedules by cancelling some trains. the voters will soon know that they owe this deterioration to europe. instead of restricting passenger transport, the railway bottlenecks and capacity shortages need to be addressed. it is good that the text has been toned down on this.
in writing. - the vvd voted against the discharge to the european commission. the vvd believes that the commission has made too little progress in encouraging the introduction of the national declaration in the member states. so far, only four countries have done so, including the netherlands. the vvd also believes that the european member states still make too many mistakes in spending european money, as has been shown by the european court of auditors' audits. the court of auditors issued a negative opinion on rural development, cohesion and structural policies, among other issues. the vvd believes that the control systems in these areas need to be improved. progress in the last five years has been too little.
the international coverage of the unrest and its aftermath in moldova at the beginning of april raises a number of questions which the european institutions should address to the moldovan and romanian authorities. starting with chisinau. does the moldovan government really intend to open fire on protesters in an emergency? watch the prime minister's announcement on state television. and how does the moldovan government explain the radical change in the national security agencies' attitude towards protesters and other opponents? a shift from incomprehensible passivity towards vandalism, arson and looting of government buildings to brutal physical violence against defenseless civilians, with three dubious deaths. above all, how is the republic of moldova discharging its responsibility for these violations of basic fundamental rights? in order to answer this last crucial question, madam president, we must certainly take the open letter with nine recommendations from 14 moldovan civil society defenders to the czech presidency yesterday. i hope that the european institutions, commissioner rehn and the czech presidency will take note of this. prominent figures in moldovan society are asking for clarification. we must confront the moldovan authorities with this. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the country, and to provide information on the situation in the country. the european consensus on the far-reaching consequences of such a major decision is certainly warranted.
the president-in-office of the council. - madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to the european parliament for hosting this important debate this afternoon. i read with great interest both mrs anna ibrisagić's report on the future stability and prosperity of the balkans and mrs doris pack's motion for a resolution on bosnia and herzegovina. the council can agree with much of what is stated in the report and we share many of the views and concerns expressed in relation to the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to focus my opening remarks directly on bosnia and herzegovina, both because its stability is crucial for the future of the western balkans as a whole and because the current situation continues to raise considerable concerns. the council has been active both in formulating and implementing a strategy to promote the security and integrity of bosnia and herzegovina and in supporting the reforms it needs to secure a peaceful and prosperous future. therefore, i cannot accept the claim that the council is not paying sufficient attention to bosnia and herzegovina. we all know that we are still living with the consequences of the tragic events of the 1990s, of which mrs ibrisagić spoke. bosnia and herzegovina, which for decades had been a symbol of the peaceful coexistence of peoples, cultures and religions, has become a zone of devastating conflict. the union's policy since then has been to work towards stability and reconciliation based on the promise of a european perspective for the entire balkan region. nevertheless, we continue to witness often strong nationalist rhetoric aimed at cementing national divisions in bosnia and herzegovina and preventing national reconciliation. time has not yet resolved these differences, nor has it healed the wounds between the three constituent peoples of bosnia and herzegovina. however, it is surprising that this nationalist rhetoric and these attitudes are accompanied by a common interest of all bosnian communities and their political representatives in the european future of bosnia and herzegovina. the people of bosnia and herzegovina are simply seeking a safer life in prosperity. it wants to move forward and relies on its country's integration into european and wider structures as a guarantee of its future stability. although local political leaders talk a lot about bosnia and herzegovina's future in the eu, their actions hardly indicate a real commitment to this agenda. this conflict between the interest in the european direction of the country and nationalism creates a real risk that while the rest of the western balkan region is moving forward, bosnia and herzegovina, mired in internal strife, will be left behind. concerns about these developments for the future of bosnia and herzegovina have kept it at the forefront of our agenda and in our permanent attention. bosnia and herzegovina has been and remains the subject of intensive negotiations at all levels of the council. the commission and the council secretariat are deepening contacts with their partners in the country in an effort to move the political process forward and help bosnia and herzegovina to keep pace with the rest of the region. member states shall complement this european programme through their own efforts at bilateral level. we also very much appreciate the attention this parliament is giving to bosnia and herzegovina. and i would like to express my gratitude to the many members present who have given their support to all the work that has been done to promote stability and political maturity in bosnia and herzegovina. the eu continues to strive for a european perspective for the whole region as well as for bosnia and herzegovina. however, meeting the eu accession criteria requires considerable effort. it means developing a consensus approach and a willingness to make far-reaching changes. it's not something that can be accomplished in a day. it means nothing less than a complete political, economic and also social transformation. bosnia and herzegovina needs to make significant changes to its internal structures and decision-making processes. we are disappointed by the lack of progress within the bosnian council of ministers and the parliamentary assembly. they fall far short of what is necessary. state authorities urgently need to strengthen and improve their work in a way that starts to deliver real results, including substantial progress on the eu-related agenda. this is fundamental, as the union can only deal with bosnia and herzegovina as a whole, not with individual parts. moreover, the priorities of the european partnership are clear. the union is always ready to help, but it cannot and will not take over the work that belongs to politicians in bosnia and herzegovina. despite the continuation of nationalist political agendas, we are aware that compromise and agreement are possible in bosnia and herzegovina. we have seen this before, for example with the adoption of two police laws which paved the way for the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, or the brcko solution which fulfilled one of the essential objectives set by the peacebuilding council. however, even in these cases, progress was always made and agreements were reached only at the last minute and under considerable pressure from the international community. it takes a much more advanced approach. it is of the utmost importance that the local political leadership shows responsibility and initiative and awareness of who bosnia and herzegovina really belongs to and who is really responsible for its future. the people of bosnia and herzegovina deserve a better result for the votes cast in the ballot box. this is an aspect that you as members can help to strengthen more than anyone else. such a development would lead to a significant shift in the international community's presence in bosnia and herzegovina. change is necessary. after so many years since the signing of the peace agreement, bosnia and herzegovina must now stand on its own two feet, end its 'protectorate' mentality and become a credible full-fledged state. to achieve this goal, the peace council steering committee has drawn up, on behalf of the international community, a list of five objectives and two conditions that bosnia and herzegovina must meet before any changes can take place. it's a real test of maturity, fully supported by the eu. the 5+2 list is not just another set of additional conditions. it is a carefully drawn up list of requirements which are essential if bosnia and herzegovina is to be transformed into a modern and complete state, allowing the presence of the office of the high representative to end. every modern country needs a properly functioning legal system, effective tax authorities, the resolution of all issues related to state property, and equal access to the constitutional court for all citizens. we have already welcomed many times the initiative of the three political leaders in prud last november to work together to promote the development of bosnia and herzegovina. we support the agreements reached and encourage these political representatives to continue their efforts with a view to the next meeting of the peace council steering committee at the end of june. we believe, above all, that the unresolved issues of state property have a solution and must not become an obstacle to a solution. however, initiatives at the political level require wider support. for this reason, i would like to call on society in bosnia and herzegovina as a whole to be part of the reform effort. the media in particular should play a more constructive role. the eu's message is clear. it is of the utmost importance that the political leadership in bosnia and herzegovina cooperate even more closely to overcome historical divisions and to lead their country towards closer integration within europe. the eu will remain ready to assist in this effort, which is essential not only for bosnia and herzegovina itself but also for the wider stability and security of the region. i know that we can count on the support of the members of this parliament in this process, and i am grateful to you, madam president, madam member and members of this house, for that support.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am glad that the western balkans are back on the european parliament’s agenda this week. in recent years a steady stabilisation in the region has taken place, not least thanks to the region’s european perspective, with the ultimate goal being eu membership once the conditions have been met by every country. croatia’s negotiations are quite far advanced. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a candidate looking forward to opening its negotiations, and we have a network of stabilisation and association agreements in place. stability in kosovo was maintained throughout last year’s important developments. we must not put these achievements at risk through any kind of complacency or distraction by other – sometimes perhaps more urgent – matters. many will have questions about eu enlargement in the middle of an economic crisis, and discussions are likely to intensify as we approach the next elections for this parliament. this is understandable and i, for one, feel the pain of our citizens concerning their future, jobs and welfare. at the same time, let us not make eu enlargement a scapegoat for something it is not responsible for. we should not make it a scapegoat for our own domestic economic and social problems. therefore, a well-informed public debate is essential to keep us all engaged and making progress in this important region. there have been calls for consolidation of the european union. this is exactly what we have been doing for the past years since the renewed consensus on enlargement which was adopted by the european council and endorsed by the european parliament in december 2006. the key of this renewed consensus is not to take on new commitments but to stick to the existing commitments and respect them. in other words, if the countries of the western balkans fulfil the established conditions, they can move towards eu membership. in this context, i very much welcome mrs ibrisagic’s report. it rightly emphasises the fundamental importance of offering the western balkans a european future. it is the main driving force of much-needed reform and greater stability in the western balkans. ten years after the horrific events in kosovo, we should remind ourselves of the power of the european perspective. it still helps today to consolidate stability and peace in a region that is, effectively, our own front yard – not back yard, but front yard. we cannot take a sabbatical from our work for peace and stability in the continent. while the european union pursues its own institutional reform, we need to keep on working in parallel on a carefully managed and gradual accession process in the western balkans that strengthens both the institutions and civil society there. the accession negotiations with croatia have, until recently, been going well. this is why the commission proposed, in november 2008, an indicative road map to reach the final stage of accession negotiations by the end of 2009, provided croatia fulfils the conditions. there is still plenty of work to do, and many reforms need to be stepped up by croatia. unfortunately, the negotiations are currently blocked because of the border dispute between croatia and slovenia. this is a bilateral issue which has de facto become a european problem. since january, working closely with the czech presidency and the trio of the czech, french and swedish governments, i have taken the initiative to help facilitate a solution. the aim is to find a solution to the border issue and allow for the continuation of croatia’s eu accession negotiations. this is still work in progress and we have needed a great deal of patience and determination to keep up the momentum and progress. we had a full day of talks yesterday with the foreign ministers of slovenia and croatia, as well as of the trio countries. i want to believe that we are close to finding a way forward and overcoming these obstacles so that we can continue croatia’s eu accession negotiations shortly. concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i welcome the overall satisfactory conduct of the presidential and municipal elections. over the past months we have insisted on the importance of these elections for the country’s european future. the country has responded positively to our message, thus confirming its willingness to move forward in its accession process. however, the key priorities for reform should not be forgotten. it is indeed now time to step up efforts in order to meet the benchmarks which have been set for the opening of accession negotiations. i would like to thank doris pack for her motion and welcome the opportunity to discuss bosnia and herzegovina with you today, at a very crucial moment. last year, bosnia and herzegovina made progress on the path of european integration, especially through the signature of the saa and the entry into force of the interim agreement. there have been positive developments in recent months as well, including the prud agreement, progress on the brcko issue and steps towards a census in 2011. also, the implementation of the saa interim agreement is broadly on track. while we need to be firm on the fulfilment of the ‘5+2’ conditions for the closure of the office of the high representative, there is now a possibility that they could met in the coming months. recent steps towards the establishment of a state property inventory are also positive in this regard. however, here, as for the rest of the region, there is no room for complacency. overall reform has remained slow, including on the key eu priorities, and challenges remain. nationalist rhetoric is still very present, creating unnecessary political tensions. this needs to change if bosnia and herzegovina wants to continue its progress towards the european union and avoid falling behind its neighbours. the serbian government remains committed to advancing on its european agenda, and there have been a number of positive developments recently. it will be essential, however, as the country is increasingly feeling the negative effects of the global financial crisis, that key reform measures are not overlooked. the process of structural adjustment must continue and the country needs to follow through its commitments, particularly in the area of judiciary and the rule of law. we are currently examining ways in which to alleviate the impact of the financial crisis, working closely together with my colleague, joaquín almunia. for instance, we are looking at our ipa programme, for which we are considering converting part of the 2009 national envelope into direct budgetary support, also with the support of the international financial institutions. we appreciate parliament’s sustained support for the eu’s efforts in kosovo, which remains a european priority and central to regional stability. the european council has repeatedly confirmed that kosovo shares a european perspective with the rest of the western balkans. the council has asked the commission to use community instruments to promote economic and political development and to propose measures to advance in that direction. this autumn, the commission will present a study to this effect. we shall examine how kosovo can progress as part of the wider region towards integration with the european union in the context of the stabilisation and association process. finally, looking at 2009 overall and the western balkans region as a whole, there has been quite good progress in the area of visa liberalisation, which proves to my mind that, when the incentives are right, the countries respond with effective reforms. this is most likely the single eu policy area that matters most to the ordinary people – the ordinary citizens – of the western balkans. we hope to table a proposal for visa-free travel by the end of the czech presidency for those countries that are most advanced in this field and have fulfilled the established conditions. this could enable decisions by the council to achieve visa-free travel for the most advanced countries by the end of 2009. dear friends, i count on your support on this essential visa issue as well as, more broadly, on the european perspective of the western balkans.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. the committee on international trade, in its opinion on the laudatory report by mr ibrisagic, underlines the importance of a tangible prospect of eu membership for the political and economic development of the western balkan states. however, when the region itself has a monopoly of market power in key economic sectors, this situation creates a double blockade, especially when it is accompanied by party political interconnection. internal development is stagnating and european firms are being left out. the unimpeded operation of delta holding in serbia with its influential director miroslav mišković as its 'octopus' is a prime example. the commissioner met with him in october. commission, what action have you taken so far against belgrade? as early as may 2007, a leaked report from the us embassy in the country called for an urgent end to the monopoly of delta holding, for serbia's well-being and for serbia's european integration. the commissioner spoke of an engine for development. well, there's a lot of sand in that serbian engine.
i shall only deal with the subject of bosnia and the resolution by mrs pack, which we shall be very happy to support tomorrow. talking about bosnia is always frustrating and i am glad that the commissioner has also managed to mention some positive points about developments in bosnia. yet, you may wonder at times whether the glass is half full or half empty. i wonder where the glass went when you talk about bosnia. mr swoboda has just said that a problem with the developments there is that there is a feeling that whatever changes are made, they are not acted upon. i actually get the opposite impression sometimes when i talk to people there, which is that they say, "even if we don't change, we'll still join because they want us so badly". i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. if reforms are made and if we start working on a proper legal system and on fighting bureaucracy, then the european perspective is real. but if it doesn't, it's not. that message must be made clear, and i think mrs pack's resolution does that very well.
bosnia-herzegovina is a mini-yugoslavia, a federation of peoples who have to choose between living together peacefully or fighting each other over territory. since the break-up of yugoslavia in 1992, attempts have been made to make bosnia-herzegovina a unitary state, but they have not succeeded. i expect that this will not be possible in the near or distant future. the agreement between the three peoples and their political leaders on effective governance will only be possible when no one feels threatened by the others or by the outside world. only after the withdrawal of the high representative of the european union and the withdrawal of foreign troops from this country will an internal compromise be possible. until then, the stagnation will continue. that is why i do not agree with the resolution on this country, which can only lead to the continuation of the protectorate and therefore to stagnation. we must bear in mind that bosnia-herzegovina is mainly inhabited by three peoples, none of whom are the majority in this country, some of whom feel a connection with serbia, some with croatia and some of whom want to emphasize their own bosnian identity. we must take that into account.
i would like to thank the rapporteur first of all. i admire and appreciate his commitment and his commitment, and i also greatly appreciate his speed. i think it would be better if we could move things along a little faster, and it is a pity that he is being held back. europe is now struggling with an economic crisis, but in fact we have been struggling for many years with a lack of innovation. other continents are often more innovative than the european union. the united states because it spends much more money on research and development from the public sector, but also from the private sector. japan is very innovative, partly because of its top runner approach. our ecodesign directive is about innovation. it's good for the environment and good for the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. innovation must be carried out in several directions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. it is not just energy-consuming products that are concerned, but also energy-related products, and i fully agree with the rapporteur: it should be all products. the resources are particularly important. if the earth is to have nearly nine billion inhabitants in about 20 years, and if all of them want a reasonable level of prosperity, then a careful and good management of natural resources is necessary. there are some inspiring concepts, for example the cradle to cradle idea of michael braungart, radical ideas to make full reuse of materials possible. the big question today is: does the ecodesign directive actually work? the most famous example of the ecodesign directive is the ban on incandescent light bulbs, a decision which is not very popular but very positive. unfortunately, there is still some uncertainty about the energy efficiency of led lamps, because it remains somewhat less favourable than the manufacturers did. another sad example of the ecodesign directive is energy labelling. you have aa, a+, a20, a40 now, and all products will soon be a-rated in some way. now, it's not entirely clear what that means, and that's not a good example of ecological design. i am sorry to say, colleagues, that this review cannot solve everything. we are stuck with our own procedures and our own agreements and, indeed, it is a missed opportunity. i hope the evaluation will provide an opportunity for improvement. it is important that the ecodesign directive be thoroughly evaluated in the near future. does it really bring the innovation we want? does it put the european union and european producers at the top of the market? does it save energy? does it minimize waste and use of natural resources? and most importantly: can the operation be extended to non-energy-related products and to all products?
for the pse group product standardisation is not just a technical matter. i was involved in the first standardization 20 years ago from a very different responsibility, namely construction. i must say that i am pleased with the result our colleague mr neris has now achieved. the performance of a construction product should be determined not only on the basis of its technical capabilities and essential characteristics, but also on the basis of the health and safety aspects of the use of such a product throughout its life cycle. we have therefore, as a group, advocated the inclusion of provisions which benefit both the safety and health of workers and users and the environment. i thank the rapporteur for her support. our group believes that all information known to the manufacturer should be included in a declaration of performance, including information on dangerous substances. member states should ensure the correct application of the rules and provide for penalties for infringements, including criminal penalties for serious infringements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am glad that we have been able to counteract that in this dossier and i hope that we can decide this tomorrow.
- i'm the reporter. − first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. let me put things in perspective. the fight against fraud, although largely the responsibility of the member states, cannot be carried out at national level alone. it must be a priority for the european union and we must ensure close cooperation between the member states and the european commission. since the reform of vat is currently on hold, the commission has concentrated on the so-called classic measure, i.e. changes to vat legislation which make technical improvements but do not fundamentally change the existing system. i agree with the initiative of commissioner kovács because it is the right one. tax fraud leads in particular to breaches of the principle of fair and transparent taxation and can lead to distortions of competition if one company pays vat and the other company does not, in addition to all costs to the public. this affects the internal market, whereby honest companies suffer from competitive disadvantages due to tax fraud. i therefore warmly welcome the commission's efforts to tackle the deliberate abuse of the vat system by gangs seeking to take advantage of shortcomings in the system. vat is an important source of revenue not only for the member states but also for the eu. the european union receives some 20 billion euros in vat revenue. it is estimated that €100 billion of vat is evaded in europe each year. it is not then handed over at the border by the importer. the fraudulent importers and exporters must be dealt with. the european commission, however, goes too far in seeking to hold the bona fide supplier and the fraudulent importer jointly liable. i have therefore tried to increase the legal protection of the bona fide exporter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. if member states are given only an additional power to prosecute exporters on a cross-border basis, there will be little incentive for member states to improve administrative cooperation. our amendments seek to avoid any unnecessary attack on a bona fide exporter. therefore, the bona fide exporter should be given a warning two months before the actual inspection, so that he can still prove that he acted in good faith. in this case, he must be contacted through his own tax office and not that of the importing member state. the socialists are calling for a maximum period of five years for the levy. i don't agree with this. the period of vat liability at national level is not harmonised. in belgium, for example, it is three years, except in the case of demonstrable fraud. a longer period of joint and several liability for vat on cross-border supplies is not desirable, as it would require companies to carry out a lot of additional administrative work, leading to high costs for businesses, which are certainly not desirable in the current crisis. in addition, from 2010 onwards, companies will have to submit monthly summary declarations for crossborder intra-eu transactions, with the result that the tax authorities will automatically receive the information necessary to cross-check intra-eu transactions. this information should be used by the tax authorities in an appropriate and targeted manner. why should it be necessary to give them five more years to carry out these cross checks, when they are already receiving monthly data? i am afraid that as a result of a long five-year claim period the tax authorities have acted too late and the fraudsters have disappeared. the recovery actions may then target companies that may have acted in good faith. mr. president, i'm going to close. the fraudulent importer must be dealt with swiftly. the bona fide exporter must be contacted by the tax authorities of the country concerned with two months' notice and a maximum period of two years. this is because the deadline will reduce the administrative burden on the reliable business community as much as possible.
i would like to begin, against my custom, with a political statement, because i find tax evasion and avoidance in this age of rising unemployment and rising income inequality really shameful. the elections will show which parties are really willing to make this work. the report by mr hamon on the taxation of savings income is an example of the issue at hand. i realize that it is difficult for the commissioner to get real agreement on this with the unanimity rule. the pse group has more ambition than was in the commission proposal and that has been incorporated in a number of amendments which we have tabled. a final comment on mrs lulling's contrast between the two systems of information exchange and withholding tax. i don't think that's the point. it is about the loopholes in the law in both systems and those are the points we must concentrate on. the commission has taken steps, but more needs to be done than what is now in the report.
first of all, i would like to thank baroness ludford for this excellent report. the report could have been stronger, but it is an asset in the debate on this subject. in some cases, profiling may be necessary, but these cases should be clearly defined and safeguarded against abuse. the possibilities of storing, exchanging and interpreting information have increased more rapidly in recent years than the necessary restrictions that democracies impose on themselves. the us intelligence agencies were not given better and more reliable information, but above all a much higher workload, as a result of data mining and profiling. one security guard even compared it to filling a water glass with a fire hose, which is very ineffective. of course, ethnic profiling has been used for years, even though we usually call it otherwise. even at five feet, not the most threatening appearance, i am regularly sidelined at customs. a small personal annoyance, but many law-abiding people experience this discomfort not regularly, but systematically. these people are given the message by our society that they are always suspect, inferior and unwelcome. we will not therefore deal with real criminals, who come from every population group.
the european union has a duty to help the afghan people. one argument is self-protection for the world outside afghanistan. since 2001, americans have feared that if al-qaeda were to use the territory of afghanistan again to prepare attacks, new disasters would ensue. in that case, then, the self-interest of other states is at stake. this objective has been largely achieved. the second argument, on the other hand, concerns the position of the people of afghanistan themselves. the intention was that they would be freed from coercion and backwardness. it is a question of freedom of the press, the rights of religious minorities, individual freedoms and, above all, the protection of equal rights for women. for years, international news on afghanistan emphasized that girls were going back to school, that women were no longer required to wear the veil, that they could live independently of their husbands as equal citizens, and that women's participation in politics was increasing. the invasion seemed like a feminist project. we are now seeing in afghanistan something like what happened in chechnya. in both cases, a fundamentalist islamic group was in power. in both cases, the aim was to bring an end to it from outside. in both cases, a monster alliance was formed, one by the americans, the other by the russians. in order to combat a particular group of islamic fundamentalists, agreements are concluded with other islamic fundamentalists. the result is that the pursuit of liberties, which was a major justification for the invasion, is being sacrificed to it. in afghanistan, women are increasingly being pushed back into their taliban-era status. girls are no longer going to school, women are disappearing from politics. now a law even protects men's right to sexual pleasure, without any control by the women themselves. that's rape. meanwhile, journalists are also threatened with the death penalty by the state. that's a dead end. europe must not give further support to this course of events.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: "paper is patient", an expression for the gap between high ideals, or regulations, and everyday reality. applying the quoted saying to women's rights in afghanistan gives a very clear picture. the joint resolution rightly refers to the afghan constitution and to international conventions ratified by kabul, all of which claim equal rights for men and women, equality of both sexes before the law. put that aside and consider the real position of afghan women. in summary, the position of afghan women is roughly equivalent in 12 points to an average life expectancy of 44 years, a high mortality rate in childbirth, namely 1 600 per 100 000 births. only 14% of all women over 15 can read. a low status, because women are the property of the man. frequent, increasing threats and intimidation of women in public office, yes, including murder. barely any protection by the afghan women's organizations' own authorities or foreign troops against targeted attacks. the family is the main determinant of girls' education. continued attacks on girls' schools. for example, in november 2008, eight schoolgirls and four teachers in the city of kandahar were mutilated by acid that the taliban sprayed in their faces. continued threat of sexual violence within and outside of marriage. about 57% of all girls are married off before their 16th birthday. few report crimes against women for fear of retaliation by family, tribe or perpetrators or even by the police. self-mutilation or even suicide by afghan women because of their hopeless situation. ladies and gentlemen, this depressing picture of the position of afghan women is far from complete. it underlines the utmost need to make the paper reality of the legal status of afghan women a national and international, including european, political priority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. many civilians have been killed, severely disabled or mentally disturbed for the rest of their lives. the criminals who had child soldiers cut off the arms and legs of innocent civilians must be punished and given no chance to repeat their crimes. it seems that the attempt to regulate this penalty between 2000 and 2010 will fail. the united nations special tribunal for sierra leone is not able to function. any convicted persons cannot be held in sierra leone indefinitely. the question now is what we can do to improve the outcome. without outside funding, without the extension of the special tribunal and without accommodation in prisons outside sierra leone, it will not succeed. the resolution rightly draws attention to these possibilities. this verdict must lead to action soon, otherwise it will be too late.
author. − mr president, for 30 years iran has been ruled by a theocratic dictatorship. that dictatorship not only forces the inhabitants to live in conformity with its religious standards but also tries to kill everyone who does not conform to its system. the consequence is that many iranians have to live in exile, not only in europe but also in the neighbouring countries. after the anglo-american military invasion in iraq, the iranians who live there in exile got a guarantee of protection from iran. now the foreign troops are preparing to withdraw from iraq. i support this withdrawal, but an unforeseen consequence could be that the theocratic regime in iran would get an opportunity to attack the opposition outside its own borders. it strives for the deportation of those people to iran in order to kill them. inside iraq there is much solidarity with the iranians in exile. however, the power of iran in iraq has grown because the majority of the inhabitants in iraq, too, is shiite muslim. through written questions to the council i have drawn its attention to the position of the 3 400 people living in camp ashraf. the only answer was that the council had not discussed this matter. today, we are discussing a very important urgent resolution on camp ashraf. in two previous resolutions in 2007 and 2008, our parliament confirmed the legal status of the ashraf inhabitants under the fourth geneva convention. today, our parliament is paying special attention to the current situation by adopting a resolution only on ashraf. this text is a joint text, adopted by most political groups, and it is balanced. it wants to send a strong message to the iraqi government that the rights of these 3 400 people in ashraf, including 1 000 women, cannot be violated because of the pressures of the mullahs in iran. so we must send a united message, without amendments that would undermine and weaken this resolution, which only covers the humanitarian issues of ashraf residents. we have to avoid any changes to the final text of the resolution that would complicate the situation or endanger the lives of these defenceless people. the inhabitants of ashraf were bombed by us forces at the beginning of the invasion in 2003. later on, they were screened by the usa. the iraqi government has also screened every one of the people in ashraf – this took place during april this year. every one of them was interviewed, outside ashraf. they were encouraged and urged to leave the camp or go to iran. only six of them agreed to leave – six out of 3 400 people! so we have to respect their decision.
in writing. - bosnia and herzegovina is mainly inhabited by three peoples, none of which is the majority in the country. some of these people feel very strongly connected to serbia, others to croatia and a third group wishes to emphasise their own independent bosnian identity. in fact, this country is a miniature yugoslavia, a federation of peoples who have the choice of living together peacefully or fighting each other over territory. since the break-up of yugoslavia in 1992, attempts have been made to make bosnia-herzegovina a unitary state, but they have not succeeded. i expect that this will not be possible in the near or distant future. the agreement between the three peoples and their political leaders on effective governance will only be possible when no one feels threatened by the others or by the outside world. only after the eu high representative and the foreign military have withdrawn from this country will a compromise be possible. until then, the stagnation will continue. that is why i do not agree with the resolution on this country which can only lead to the continuation of the protectorate and therefore also to stagnation.
president, queen's day in the netherlands is the annual celebration of the entire dutch people with the house of orange. this party was violently disrupted and we've barely recovered from the shock. we remember the victims and we sympathize with the bereaved. on behalf of the dutch delegation, i would like to thank you for the letter you sent on behalf of the european parliament to our queen beatrix.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1785/81 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). so we've been lucky again, just like we were with sars. but it was not up to the decision-makers, mr president. when word came over the weekend that the flu was threatening, it was agreed to meet for emergency consultation on thursday. it seems to me a new definition of the word "speed"; and then there's not much decision-making. how can we do that if there is a real crisis? if the big one - which the world health organization is convinced is coming, and which may result in 8 to 10 million deaths - comes, how will it be? the ministers met to exchange information, plans were made. but what about the quality of those plans? what is the quality of this exchange of information and what measures have been taken? do they even match? is the commission receiving all the necessary information? i have my doubts about that. for example, the antiviral drugs, who has them? who doesn't? and is there at last a willingness on the part of the ministers to put in place a european emergency reserve? it has been proposed by france to cancel flights to mexico. whether that was such a good decision, i'm not convinced. but the council's decision that everyone should know for himself whether they would do so is of course idiotic. what is the point of one country doing it and the other not, with those open borders? they should have decided that together. the only solution here is to enable the commission to take such emergency measures. you, commissioner, should be able to take crisis measures within 24 hours on behalf of the council on quarantine, on disinfection measures at airports, or on travel restrictions. so this is not a criticism of the commission. commissioner, you and your officials have done the right thing. but where was the council? then we look around us in the dusty proverbial mexican plaza and there in the sun against the station is the council. we walk up to it and say "flu, flu!", and the sombrero slowly rises and the council says mañana mañana and continues its siesta. with this council, it's bad to eat nachos.
mr president, research by the world health organization shows that 16 weeks of maternity leave is too short. they even say twenty-four weeks. the commission has now, like the ilo, put forward a proposal for 18 weeks. parliament is now in its 20th week, and there is still a difference between the socialist group and my group: we are in favour of 16 weeks plus four and the socialist group of 20 weeks. mr president, i can finally go along with the 20 weeks. the second point: paternity, parental and adoption leave. i'm incredibly in favor of fathers being involved in the first few weeks after a child is born. but we all know, and i thank mr špidla for his clear explanation, that this cannot be regulated in this directive. this directive is about safety and health and not about parental leave. these are other arrangements which must be worked out with the social partners. the third point is maternity leave for selfemployed workers and for partners who work together. i think mrs lulling has done an excellent job there.
mr president, the socially-minded english entrepreneur robert owen already advocated the introduction of the eight-hour working day in 1817. in his view, eight hours of work and a good organization of labor made it possible to create prosperity for all. and it was exactly 125 years ago that the eight-hour workday was introduced in the united states. it is part of our common european democratic philosophy that the shortening of the working week contributes to a decent life. fortunately, in recent decades more attention has been paid to the division of labour and care. in this context, mr president, it is a great shame that we in europe still have to fight for the limitation of the maximum working week. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. robert owen was right: working more than eight hours is counterproductive; this is also shown by various studies. in this period of rising unemployment the majority of the council of ministers and the commission have taken a completely wrong direction.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you know that road safety is one of the priorities of my work as commissioner for transport. it is important to stress at the outset that while road safety is of course an important aspect when discussing a matter such as the working hours of road hauliers, your debate today, our debate, is not about road safety but about social legislation, not about driving time but about working hours. the question to be answered today is this: should an independent contractor be subject to restrictions on working hours on the same terms as an employed person? this is a matter which must be assessed very carefully because there is no precedent in european legislation for determining how long a selfemployed person can work in his own office or laboratory. in 1998, when the council and parliament first discussed the directive on working time for mobile workers, the situation in the road transport sector was completely different from today, as rapporteur panayotopoulos recalled: at the time, it was common practice to circumvent the current driving time regulations, with the consequence that professional drivers spent excessive hours at the wheel. in fact, under the old 1985 driving time regulations, effective control of driving time was practically impossible. in this situation, between 1988 and 2002, legislators discussed a commission proposal to regulate working time not only for employed but also for self-employed road hauliers, and this discussion led to the adoption of the sectoral directive on working time for mobile workers. it was hoped that the negative consequences for road safety resulting from inadequate legislation on driving time could be reduced by extending the scope of the working time rules to self-driving drivers. however, the problem was not resolved and following a conciliation procedure between parliament and the council, the commission was invited to examine the advantages and disadvantages of extending the working time rules to self-employed workers and to submit a proposal in 2008. the commission complied with this request and published a detailed study in 2007 which reached the following conclusions. first of all: working time must not be confused with driving time. the situation has changed radically with regard to the second. as you know, this house has adopted, together with the council, new rules on driving time. these are rules which include the use of the digital tachograph, a highly reliable monitoring instrument and a specific directive on implementation. the new rules, which have been in force since 2007, apply to all truck drivers, including self-driving cars. with the new digital tachograph, which records every minute of the truck's movement, a truck driver can drive no more than nine hours a day and an average of 45 hours each week. in fact, it is now possible to control the application of these rules much more strictly than in 1985. second point: there is no precedent in community social legislation for regulating the use of selfemployed labour. a selfemployed person cannot be forced to work overtime, as he is, by definition, free to organise his work as he wishes. in addition, it is almost impossible in practice to control the working hours of this category. third element released: the overall balance of advantages and disadvantages of extending the working time rules to selfemployed workers is very uncertain and it is not possible to demonstrate that the application of the directive to selfemployed road hauliers would bring clear advantages. finally, it is very important to stress that the application of working time rules to self-employed road hauliers is ineffective and very difficult to achieve, as these workers do not have to indicate working hours for pay purposes, and the administrative costs of applying such rules would be very high. fourth element: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. socially they are vulnerable. now, in theory, they are covered by the directive, but its non-application means that in practice this does not happen. the commission has therefore proposed to strengthen the implementation of the directive and to provide 'fake' self-employed road hauliers with the social protection they need. in a period of economic crisis, imposing an additional administrative and financial burden on small and fragile enterprises, which have to cope with the consequences of the recession, would not be a positive sign. the commission therefore welcomes the amendments tabled by the epp, the alde and the ind, which are in line with the council's common position adopted at the last transport council and which send a clear message to the sector: the commission will not tolerate the phenomenon of 'fake' autonomous road hauliers and the legislator will ensure that the legislation is applied throughout europe.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, the moment of truth is fast approaching. we shall vote on the report by mr panayotopoulos-cassiotou tomorrow afternoon. the rapporteur and i, as rapporteur for the committee on transport, share the same view on free enterprise and that is why we have signed together a dozen amendments which are also acceptable to the council. i am grateful that commissioner tajani can endorse it. we shall have to deal with the amendment rejecting the committee on employment first thing tomorrow. i am still very indignant about this amendment. this indignation, however, turned into horror last week when i saw the position paper of the european trade unions. the fear of a romanian or bulgarian self-employed driver getting lost is why one falsehood after another is being drawn out of the closet to persuade members of parliament to vote against the commission's proposal. the piece suggests that self-employed drivers would work 86 hours. a driver, whether employed or selfemployed, will be allowed to drive 45 hours a week in two weeks, as commissioner tajani has already said. would he be spending 41 hours a week on his entrepreneurial endeavors? the road safety argument is also not valid. the link between the exemption of selfemployed drivers from working time arrangements and road safety has never been established, on the contrary. the position paper shows that the unions are well aware of the enormous weakness of their position. the environment and the internal market are being dragged into this with the hair to show that we should vote in favour of the proposal for rejection, whereas the very comprehensive impact assessment of the commission shows that the proposal is actually good for the functioning of the internal market, the transport sector and the environment. that is why we must vote against the rejection amendment tabled by the committee on employment tomorrow and in favour of the rapporteur's amendments. i trust that common sense will govern the vote. finally, i would like to say that i find mr hughes's e-mail from last saturday totally inappropriate. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the political process, but that it should be involved in the political process.
the socialist group considers the proposal for the revision of the working time arrangements in road transport to be insufficiently considered and contradictory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are properly applied. the commission says that legislation is only efficient and effective if it covers all those concerned. in my questions to the commission i have tried to clarify what the commission intends to do about the involvement of the pseudo-autonomous. in this context, the intention expressed in the council of ministers to exclude the selfemployed from the scope of the directive and to do nothing about the so-called selfemployed is not acceptable to the pse group. drivers, whether employed or selfemployed, must consider their own safety and that of others to the same extent. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have to assist the commissioner. it is not the first time that the coordination of safety at the construction site has included these selfemployed workers to ensure their own safety and the safety of others.
i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative. we also have differences of opinion in our group, as mr malcolm harbour has also said, but that shows how sensitive this issue is. in a democracy, representatives of the people must listen to the citizens and at this point in time the time has passed when animals have to be slaughtered in a very cruel way in order to make commercial products out of them. we do not want to dictate how the game is to be hunted, we do not want to interfere with wildlife management. we want to stop the trade in animals that are killed in an inhumane way. i think that is the message of this compromise. i think it is good that account is taken of the traditional communities which have been granted an exception, and that it is good that there is no witch hunt on consumers or tourists who import products they have bought as souvenirs. that is not good and does not fit in with the european union of freedom today. it would perhaps be a good thing - because we want information on products everywhere - if it simply stated on the products that the product is made up of seal parts, then perhaps the consumer could choose and at the moment is often unaware of it. consumers should be able to make a better choice, so better information is needed. perhaps it would be good to support indigenous traditional communities with measures that would enable them to set up alternative economies. i thank you, mr president, and i hope that we shall adopt this compromise en masse tomorrow.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of introducing a new system of quotas for the import of seals. a beautiful spectacle of nature is the annual scene of a bloody and gruesome display of suffering and pain, with cubs as young as 12 days old being strangled or shot. this slaughter is being carried out for the sake of the market and big money, without any regard for animal welfare, and that is something that really disgusts me. we must not import this atrocity into the eu. many eu citizens do not want that either, and they are in favour of a total ban on importing sealskin. in the netherlands we fought hard for such a ban, and with success. if the commission's proposal were to go ahead as it stands, it would undermine the result achieved in the netherlands. however, i conclude from this parliament's report that the european parliament is on the verge of a total ban on seal meat. i am in favour of a total ban and i call on all members of the ep, including the commission, to join in.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great work she has done on this dossier. after this parliament, as mr mccarthy has already pointed out, called for a ban on seal products in the eu as early as 2006, i am very pleased that it is now proposing a compromise with the council which is in line with the wishes of this house. every year, some 900,000 seals are brutally slaughtered in commercial seal hunts. this is not only horrible, but completely useless. the pse group was convinced from the outset that the commission's proposal did not go far enough. the broad exemptions in that proposal would have been impossible to control, because the large-scale hunting takes place everywhere in a ten-day period every year. the capacity to control this is inadequate and there is often a reluctance on the part of the governments concerned. it was crucial for our group to limit the scope for exceptions in the negotiations considerably and i am very pleased with the current result of a trade ban, which has largely achieved this. the pse group also believes that it is important to intervene as little as possible in the traditional livelihoods of indigenous peoples. the compromise exception for the inuit and other indigenous peoples meets the wishes of my group. while we cannot force non-eu countries to stop seal hunting, hopefully the trade in seal products will become much less profitable and will reduce the hunting itself, and hopefully eventually stop altogether. in that sense, i am very pleased with the result achieved.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to revise the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. both the use and suffering of animals in research must be greatly reduced and this can be done by encouraging the development of scientific methods which are equivalent or more efficient, without thereby hindering the development of medicines too much. what i find difficult, however, is that several amendments have been tabled which could weaken the proposal considerably. we must not lose sight of the purpose of the proposal. this is about the protection of the laboratory animals and not about corporate profits. the most important thing is that procedures categorised as severe, where animals may suffer prolonged pain, are prohibited. these procedures are unethical and barbaric. finally, the use of non-human primates should be phased out completely. it has to be done very quickly. parliament adopted this in a written statement back in 2007 and i think it is now time to add action to the word.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare standards are maintained. where good alternatives to animal testing are available, they should be used. so less animal testing. this also applies to good procedures that reduce animal suffering or that require fewer animals. so less animal suffering. i think the proposed mandatory ethical review is a win. of course, this directive cannot be intended to force member states to accept human embryo trials as an alternative. member states have their own ethical considerations to make here. the commission wants to see the complete abolition of animal testing. we share that ambition, but unfortunately we cannot do without animal testing and we cannot say definitively when we will be able to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal testing directive is implemented. i share the rapporteur's view.
first of all, mr president, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs for their work. but i'm afraid i'm having trouble with the package. there are many good things in it and clearly there is a need for regulation in this sector. what we have gained here, for example, is much better consumer protection, and the commission's commitment to proposals for a general obligation to notify in the event of data loss. i do have a problem with this package, though. that is the point raised by many of my colleagues, including my french colleague, namely that the governments have tried to introduce the three-strikes-out element into the compromise through a back door, which has nothing whatsoever to do with the directive. i have to say, that irritates me beyond measure. i therefore find this compromise unacceptable and would therefore urge my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by my colleagues alvaro and schmidt. that is a precondition for me to be able to give my support to this package. i would be extremely sorry if this amendment were not adopted. of course we want a compromise with the european council, but not at any price. i am also annoyed that the council is always putting us back against the wall, and that we can only swallow or choke. the council has as much responsibility for reaching a compromise as the european parliament. this european parliament has a reputation for protecting civil rights, especially in recent years. i hope that the european parliament will live up to that reputation when it votes tomorrow. finally, mr president, i too would like to say a word about the lobby. i must say that, although i disagree with mr chichester on the substance, i have also been irritated by the huge flow of emails, sometimes quite threatening. i 'm already convinced and i think ... (the president cut off the speaker)
draft report by the committee on culture and education. - president, the importance of the renewed social agenda is clear, especially in the light of the current economic crisis. the rapporteur, mr silva peneda, has made a great effort to produce this report. the committee on culture and education has contributed to this opinion. the focus is on four themes: the european commission has recently launched a new action programme on the integration of young people into the labour market. first of all, the relationship between education and business. a broader dialogue between business, education, trade unions and associations is needed to identify the skills needed in the economy in the future. adult education has a role to play in developing these skills. the content of education must meet vocational and practical requirements. it is also necessary to promote cooperation between universities and industry. a bridge must be built between educational programmes and the business community, which must also be able to complement educational programmes, offer internships, and organise open days for students. secondly, lifelong learning is very important. it is crucial that there is a balance between family life, work and learning. public and private childcare also plays an important role and needs to be expanded to enable parents to participate throughout their lives. sport is also an additional instrument, and i would like to mention that from the committee on culture, where we also promote sport. it promotes the development of values such as honesty, solidarity, respect for rules and team spirit, and it is also important for health. it is important that the member states be encouraged in these areas.
president, ladies and gentlemen, when we first discussed the commission's social agenda last year, i said that i thought the programme lacked ambition, that it was too little too late. i would like to thank mr silva peneda for the recent cooperation in this area, and i think his report shows that the european parliament wants much more ambition in this area. when we first started thinking about the european union, it was clear that we wanted to base our social policy on a set of rules that we know in almost every member state, namely good labour laws that ensure that no one is left out of the boat and collective bargaining that safeguards the position on the labour market. we have now had to add to this the social protection of the weakest members of our society. we have seen that despite the growth that has taken place in europe, a new phenomenon has emerged, namely the phenomenon of the working poor. i would also like to thank mr silva peneda for including that in the report.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i think there is a mixed picture when it comes to democratization in turkey. progress in some areas and stagnation and decline in others. it is progress if on 1 may there are no riots in taksim square in istanbul, but trade union leaders commemorate the 1977 tragedy. it is progress if turkey and armenia agree to improve their relations. my appeal to the turkish government would be to continue with this and not to be deterred or distracted by nationalists in ankara or baku. it is progress, when people are arrested on suspicion of preparing a coup or involvement in political assassinations, the question arises. my warning to the turkish authorities would be to continue to carry out their actions within the law, because any violation that is made will be used to divert attention from the content and will be seized upon by those who do not want a solution to this matter, who do not want the bottom to the top. but then the negative developments. it is bad when the prime minister calls for people to stop buying certain newspapers. it is very bad when a large part of the leadership of a democratically elected party in the turkish parliament is arrested. the mass arrest of prominent members of the dtp is as unacceptable as a formal ban on that party, because the result is the same. the space for a political solution to the kurdish question is being drastically reduced. that is very good news for the extremists on both sides, but very bad news for the majority of turks and kurds who have long yearned for a peaceful solution to this problem. the situation of progress on the one hand and stagnation on the other will, in my view, only end if the government unambiguously chooses further reforms, if the opposition supports it not only in words but also in practice, and also, ladies and gentlemen, if the eu keeps its promise that turkey can become a full member of the european union if it meets our democratic standards. that brings me to a final point, mr president. i am very pleased with the party-wide concern about democratization in turkey, but i have no sympathy whatsoever for colleagues who are critical of turkey but are not prepared to allow turkey to become a full member if those problems are resolved. i will continue to support the reforms needed to enable turkey to become a full member of the european union after my term of office.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in turkey. it bombed turkey into membership in 1999 and continued this path by opening accession negotiations with ankara in 2005. the council and the commission consider that they can ignore the historical heritage of the republic of turkey. this historical legacy - or rather, this tax - is today manifested in a veritable cultural struggle between the secularist-kemalist camp and the conservative-religious front around the ruling akp party over the proper direction of the republic of turkey. the most toxic consequence of this is the startling ergenekon lawsuit against many kemalist prominent figures. kemalists and prime minister erdogan are now bitterly close in their nationalist stance towards the country's religious and ethnic minorities. the continuing persecution of these minorities - a historical fact of the turkish republic - is of course contrary to the political conditions of accession to the european union. the council and the commission, a well-known dutch proverb says: better half turned than lost. the european institutions and the turkish authorities should finally learn this lesson. this is the only way to a more realistic and mutually beneficial relationship.
mr president, listening to this debate, i have the impression that most people are satisfied, and yet i have the strong impression that it is a meagre package. the main thing, i think, is that the honour of president barroso and the honour of the commission have been saved. the measures proposed are certainly useful, but the financing is still uncertain. i have a few objections to the fact that the agricultural budget is always used as a cash cow for all sorts of unexpected events that occur. i believe that the agricultural budget must take account of unexpected events, even if there is a surplus. i believe that the commission and the european union have learned very little from the outbreaks of infectious animal diseases that have occurred in the past. if that happens again, it will have to be paid for from the agricultural budget. my question is: what's the priority? the payment of the proposed measures to combat animal diseases, or this package which has yet to be settled? there is still a great deal of uncertainty in this respect, but i understand that income supplements will always be guaranteed, and that gives me some peace of mind. on the measures themselves: it depends on the countries. they are without a doubt useful. i too am in favour of greater energy security and i think that everything we do in this respect is useful. finally, i would like to thank the two commissioners for their work, and i would like to thank in particular mrs fischer boel, with whom i have had a very good cooperation over the last five years.
mr president, we are now in the third year of our financial perspective, and we are here for the third year to discuss an interim adjustment. in 2007, galileo, that was still to be explained; in 2008, the 1 billion food facility, where we had to do all the necessary tricks to get it done, because it had to be funded within the ceilings of the existing categories, when there was really no room for that. and now we are here to talk about an economic stimulus package, which is indeed a welcome addition to the national efforts in this area, and which in the energy field and for broadband is also hopefully an incentive for projects in the north of my country. but there are two additional remarks to be made. i am glad that we are playing by the rules this time and that we are actually adjusting the financial perspective, but we have had to open the box of tricks again by using the budgets for 2010 and possibly 2011. it is of course nice to say that this does not affect the codecision programmes, but what about agriculture, which, as we know, is not yet covered by codecision? what, and it has been said, if there is an outbreak of animal disease or a serious market crisis and we need those resources in agriculture itself? can the commission give a guarantee that these commitments will not be breached? the second point is that these expenditure decisions, which we are now taking together, must of course remain controllable. two weeks ago my delegation did not agree to the discharge for 2007 because of problems of controllability and financial accountability. this package must in no way be a detriment to that controllability and accountability. as the british have a nice saying: the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and i think this plan is only really a success if this condition is met. i have kept to my time, and i'm going to steal three seconds to thank the commissioner. we have often turned off the lights here late at night after the agricultural debates. i want to thank you, commissioner, for your openness and your cooperation.
mr president, i am standing here with mixed feelings in my last debate in this house. i am very happy with the decision that we took on the hoppenstedt report to increase the funding of the level 3 committees. this is a step towards strong european supervision of the financial markets that have developed far beyond national borders. i have been a strong supporter of this and i hope the debate on this will continue very strongly in the next term. the other dossier on the capital requirements directive (crd) is not, in my view, a good example of better regulation under the lamfalussy process that we have developed in the 10 years i have been active. i will support the results because we need to send a strong signal to the market, but i would have preferred a more principles-based approach and more transparent consultation in the political process. this was the pressure of obtaining this hasty result. i hope that, at the end of the year when there will be a fuller review of the crd, the lamfalussy process will also be taken properly into account. i strongly recommend that the committee on economic and monetary affairs reinstate this process. in my last speech, i would also link to what ms berès has said and would say to mr mccreevy that it is a pity that what he has done to regulate these financial markets is really too little and too late. i want to express my appreciation to my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their cooperation over these 10 years. i hope they get a commissioner in the new term who will be exclusively devoted to the financial markets, handling a portfolio which really focuses on this very important subject that brought us into these dire straits nowadays, and who will really be devoted to regulation and proper european supervision of the financial markets.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to begin by making a general remark. countries are not racist: people are racist. there are many people in iran, i am sure, who do not share the views of their president and i think it was in fact a missed opportunity that europe was weak, silent, divided and absent and did not speak on behalf of those people in iran and that it left the podium to the likes of mr ahmadinejad to speak his racist language. i personally was against the boycott of the conference, but i think what was even worse is that there was no european strategy. why was europe divided? why? i would like an explanation from the council – and i have tabled an amendment to this effect to the obiols i germà report that we will be discussing later – why there was no european strategy? why are 27 european countries unable to agree on a strategy? if and when the lisbon treaty comes into force, which is something that the council has supported, then the 27 countries will have to make a stronger effort for a joint strategy. concerning the issue of the defamation of religion, i am extremely worried that it is a un body that is able to adopt resolutions calling for a total ban on the defamation of religions or on offending religions. in the end, i understand that it has been watered down in the final resolution, but i still think it is worrying that something like this can come out of the un. however, i also see the irony in the fact that in this house it is also still very difficult to even criticise – not offend, criticise – religions, and one main european religion in particular, and there is another amendment tabled by myself and my colleague cappato to the obiols i germà report criticising the vatican for its position on condoms in the fight against aids. again, i would like to ask the council to explain what has been done to get to a european strategy.
president. - it is always difficult to clarify certain points in a resolution of this kind. it's going to be a christmas tree resolution soon enough. but the rapporteur has done a very good job and the points he has just mentioned, such as the death penalty, must of course remain an absolute priority in all that we do in the field of human rights. i'm glad he brought that up. i also think that the feminization of the human rights debate is an important issue that has been under-reported for far too long, especially when it comes to human rights defenders. my group will not go so far as to say that we want to tackle sexist language on that point. i don't think you can solve these kinds of problems with some kind of newspeak and political correctness, but it's very right that the problem has been put on the agenda. the same is true of children. the resolution says some very good things about this and i refer in particular to the text on child sex tourism. with a number of other meps, we have launched an action - now signed on the internet by over 37,000 people. every week hundreds of european men still fly to south-east asia, latin america and africa to abuse children, sometimes very young children, and it is high time that europe took action in this area. i am glad that the commissioner is here now, because it was commissioner barrot who put his neck out on that point and came up with some very good proposals; i think that's an important signal. human rights are still a bit of a stepchild of european foreign policy. if you look at foreign policy, trade promotion and so on is always at the forefront. i think we should give human rights a clearer and clearer priority. i would particularly like to call on the commission to pay more attention to the issue of internet censorship. there has been an initiative by parliamentarians from the four major parties here for a global online freedom act, based on the proposals in the us congress. i understand that a number of commissioners, such as mrs reding and mrs ferrero-waldner, have also expressed an interest in this. i really hope that we will get some concrete proposals on this, because it is important to add butter to the fish if we also want to promote our european identity in the field of human rights and democracy.
president. - mr president, i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to give you the answer to your question. regimes still try to hold on to power through violence, people are still treated unequally and people still live in miserable and humiliating conditions below the poverty line. there are still stateless peoples who feel that the government of the state in which they are situated would prefer that they leave the country to make way for people who belong to the majority group. governments are not interested in a section of their population and do not want to solve their problems. in europe we agree that all this is unacceptable. yet there are two kinds of measurement. countries that we want to keep as friends because they are big, economically powerful, are important trading partners, or are considered allies, can afford more than small powerless countries. we must put an end to this, or else our good inventories of injustice will lose their value.
president. - as the rapporteur for relations between the european union and china, i am pleased that the present report gives ample attention to the serious human rights situation in china, both in paragraph 87 and in paragraph 80. one serious violation of human rights in the people's republic is not mentioned: the political abuse of psychiatry against dissidents. this perversion of health care is known as "ankang", which means "enough health through rest". yeah, well, when you squash people, you get some peace. the paragraph on the ankang system in my report has always been vehemently denied by the chinese authorities. commission, i would welcome your information on the political use of psychiatry by beijing. i found it interesting that the czech presidency of the european union has just announced that a human rights dialogue will take place next week. i ask the czech presidency to put the question of political psychiatry in china on the agenda. i would be very grateful to you for that, especially given the chinese denials. finally, mr president, a year ago i experienced firsthand in china what members of protestant house churches can experience. if they want to speak to a foreigner, they are faced with a long stay in a police station or preventive harassment. fortunately, my three chinese interlocutors were released fairly quickly. the commission and parliament will take appropriate initiatives to ensure that this is the case. mr jarzembowski was there, and i thank him for that too; i believe that this is a clear proof that the european union can be effective in protecting human rights. it gives courage for the future.
madam president, i am a bit surprised at the qualifications of my amendment as ‘grotesque’ and ‘unacceptable’. i think nobody is above criticism – not even the pope – and in this house we have always strongly criticised the us gag rule under the bush administration, which does not go as far as the pope’s statements. the pope should know that he is a very important, influential religious leader and that his words carry weight and may directly and indirectly lead to thousands, even millions, of aids deaths. i think it is only right that this house should criticise it. secondly, the eu has always been a driving force for human rights but we are losing credibility. over the last eight years we have lost our moral authority because of our support for the way in which the us has fought terrorism. i think it is high time that the eu follows the example of the obama administration and comes clear on our role in the fight against terrorism.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all a few general remarks. in recent years i have been working intensively on behalf of my group, the alde group, on the establishment of a european asylum and migration policy. the usefulness and necessity of this are evident to practically everyone. a europe without internal frontiers calls for a common approach. the fact is, however, that the standards agreed and the results achieved so far are in stark contrast to the ambitions expressed in the tampere programme, the hague programme and, more recently, the french pact on asylum and migration. the problem is that the greatest common denominator suddenly turns out to be the minimum when the council has to take concrete decisions, and so the desired harmonisation effect is actually missing. even when it comes to transposition into national legislation, many member states fail to meet the deadline, either in terms of timing or accuracy. as a result, in practice, there are still huge differences between member states. this not only creates confusion but also promotes abuse. the council does not seem to have been sufficiently impressed with the fact that improving the quality of asylum seekers, that more consistent and more solidary action is not only in the interests of asylum seekers but also, and above all, in the interests of the member states themselves. as regards my own report, the following: the existing dublin regulation is also the product of a shaky political compromise in the council, resulting in many ambiguous passages and the necessary gaps. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's efforts to achieve a truly uniform and efficient dublin system. the most important political point in the proposed recast is, in my view, article 31. as i said a little while ago, i regard the lack of consistent and solidary action by the council as the main obstacle to the establishment of a common asylum and migration policy. i therefore have a good understanding of the provisions contained in article 31 of the commission proposal from this point of view alone. the fact is, however, that the dublin system was never designed or intended as a burden-sharing instrument. it is also clear that the dublin system does not in itself create any particular pressure on asylum seekers or create an excessive burden for certain member states. i am therefore afraid that, however well-intentioned, the commission's proposal will be of little effect in this respect if we are to achieve a more consistent and united approach by the member states. the member states which are now faced with an excessive burden, due to their demographic situation or, for example, their geographical location, are ultimately not helped or not helped enough. the question of solidarity must therefore be considered in a broader context. in recent years it has become clear that member states need a stick behind the door. it is time, as far as i am concerned, for a breakthrough. this solidarity between the member states will have to be enforced in some way. i know that some member states have reacted very negatively to the proposals adopted in the libe committee, and i am quite frankly still cautious. i am also aware that i am on slippery ground when it comes to the commission's right of initiative. but fair is fair: i'm actually sick of all the beautiful words in this. the stockholm programme of the next president will probably contain some of the most beautiful paragraphs. i'm sure you will. but, mr president-in-office, that programme could be stolen from me if the member states do not give in again in practice.
in my first contribution i already indicated that the differences between the member states are still enormous and that the much-desired harmonization has in fact failed in this respect. we can no longer deny that. directives provide a set of procedural standards rather than a standard procedure. a world of difference, which we are now trying to close and the liberals are very clearly choosing a pragmatic approach. further approximation of the laws of the member states, including, of course, proper enforcement, is the only way forward in our view. but again, with the necessary realism and the necessary pragmatic conviction. we therefore consider the establishment of a european asylum support office, the proposed recasting of the reception facilities directive and the eurodac regulation to be crucial. in this respect, and this is a small point for the commission, it is regrettable that the publication of both the recasting of the procedure and the recognition directive is still very much in the offing. this one is scheduled for june 24th. but from the point of view of greater coherence and better legislation, it would have been more logical to adopt these two proposals in the current asylum package. but, of course, the council will have the floor later. i would like to stress once again that greater coherence, better quality and consistent and united action are important for all member states. i shall not soon forget our visits to the external borders of europe, and to the well-known hot spots in particular. the credibility of the european union has been at stake for some time in this respect. do what you promised!
president. - tomorrow, on the last day of this house in its present composition, we shall be voting on a package of proposals to improve our asylum policy. after five years of debate and visits to asylum centres, it is high time to come up with concrete measures. if we have to wait for the implementation of this, the final reaction will come very late. the events of 2005 and 2006 led to a crackdown on illegal immigration, but the asylum seeker was literally thrown overboard. although i support the establishment of a cooperation agency, i have my doubts about its form and its role. how do we arrive at a reliable list of safe countries of origin? what resources are we going to use for that? and how can we adequately protect the sources of information from countries that are not safe? can these sources be made public and what say does such a list have to the independent judge? i would like to hear from the council how to avoid that problem. why was it not decided to make practical cooperation a task for frontex? the agency is small in size and can handle such a task well with sufficient expansion of resources. this will enable an adequate response to the actual developments already faced by frontex. the practice of asylum seekers and migrants entering the country can then be used to ensure that asylum seekers are properly welcomed. i think that's very practical.
substitute author. mr president, i would like to thank the czech minister warmly for answering my question. i am pleased to hear that in your answer to the questions on combating the increase in poverty and social exclusion among the most vulnerable groups, the extension of the directive on anti-discrimination in goods and services occupies a prominent place. i want to express my appreciation for that. my question to you is whether this also means that the text which we as parliament adopted in april enjoys the full support of the czech presidency and what are the concrete actions which you have taken as president to get this directive adopted as soon as possible by the member states, by the council? thank you very much.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - president, today the czech senate adopted the treaty of lisbon. now ireland, you might say, and then we have a treaty which also offers my committee on development and cooperation more opportunities for better policy. but whoever is putting pressure on ireland is making a dramatic mistake. this is a union of independent states. the irish are free to make their own decisions. any pressure from outside risks blowing up the whole of the eu, because despite all the fine and smug words here in this house today, the eu is in a deep crisis of confidence. the only way to solve it is with results, with social policy, investing in economic recovery, taking care of clean energy for our climate, protecting social rights, here and in the rest of the world, but with all that respect for each member state, for its own solutions that work. cooperation is necessary, especially in this crisis, but it requires the confidence to be able to remain yourself. there is no pressure on ireland, not for the irish, not for the other europeans. let the eu be modest if it is to achieve great ambitions.
mr president, i have two thoughts on mr dehaene's report. on the one hand, i appreciate that he sometimes dares to make an honest analysis - i am thinking of paragraphs 14 and 26 - in which he discusses the dominance of the european council and the difficulties surrounding the new system of presidencies in the council. on the other hand, i am disappointed in this report. the rapporteur does not analyse everything with the same sharpness. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i therefore find it incomprehensible that the rapporteur speaks of a stronger institutional balance in the union as a general evaluation. i admit that the lisbon treaty is an improvement in some respects. however, the uncertain impact of this treaty on the institutional balance of the union is the achilles heel of lisbon, and the rapporteur has not considered this.
president, vice-president of the commission, rapporteur, after a period of 15 years, this will be my last contribution to a debate in the european parliament. so i think it is a very special contribution to a very specific debate. the suspension of the airport slots scheme for six months. i have been campaigning for a green transport policy in recent years, with the aim of securing the future of the transport sector. i think we have succeeded in doing that again with this report. a reduction from 80% to 75% would not solve the problems. airlines would still have no qualms about stopping empty-flight operations in the event of such a change. the compromise reached fortunately provides solutions which are good for the environment but also provide a boost to the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on airport slots are respected. as long as those slots are so expensive that empty-flighting pays, the current legislation is useless. i am therefore satisfied with the text which indicates that any further suspension of the lock system must be accompanied by a complete change in the legislation. of course, it must be two separate dossiers, so that emergency measures can be taken quickly and there is enough time for a comprehensive review. i would like to hear from commissioner tajani whether this last point will be respected. president. - i shall now close. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it has always been a pleasure to work with the colleagues in the committee on transport. i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues, and in particular mr costa, for his report which we are now discussing and for his willingness to work towards a sensible compromise on airport slots.
in writing. - with regard to the recent protests against the election results in moldova, my group has tabled a separate resolution which departs from the compromise between four groups. there is no difference between the two resolutions in the choice of free and fair elections. there is a difference in the assessment of the government and the majority party in that country. my group argues that the protests are being organized by undemocratic forces which want to challenge the repeated choice of half the electorate for the communist party. moreover, it is assumed that these protests were organized from the neighboring country romania, which moldova wants to incorporate. on the basis of that consideration, my group votes in the majority against the joint resolution. i shall, however, vote in favour of this resolution. many moldovans have applied for romanian citizenship. political contacts with the current ruling party must not prevent us from respecting the wish of a large part of the population to join romania. this desire is encouraged by the fact that further enlargement of the number of member states within the eu no longer has the support of public opinion. accession to romania will then be the only way to enter the eu.
in writing. - although it is a good resolution, i voted against it because, in the resolution, the european parliament agrees that the commission should make an exception to the ban on asbestos for certain electrolysis plants. i think that when you say that you have a total ban on asbestos in europe, you have to be consistent and therefore not make exceptions. there are still people who are deathly sick from asbestos and i find it incomprehensible that the commission does not take this into account. i voted against the resolution in solidarity with the victims of asbestos.
- a writer. - two and a half minutes, mr president. in the last five years, there have been many debates about iran. my group was sympathetic to the revolution in the late 1970s, not because of any relationship with the religious zealots, but because the previous government of the pahlavi family did not represent the people. that government could only survive by a close bond with america and europe. the fact that a previous government led by prime minister mossadeq, which had much more popular support, had been ousted by foreign pressure, gave the broad popular movement against the government a decidedly anti-western character. the west was not seen as an ally in the struggle for democracy and progress, but as a colonial profiteer and oppressor. there is no longer any doubt that power has been taken over by groups that are not only eager to seek conflict with america and israel, but are also outright conservative, intolerant and undemocratic. they oppress their people, have brought the judiciary and the military into the grip of religious fanatics, and prevent voters from voting for those with more moderate views. the rights of women, ethnic and religious minorities are being ignored, and the death penalty is often carried out in the most brutal public fashion as a means of eliminating deviant behaviour. opposition behavior inside iran leads to imprisonment. opponents who have fled abroad are persecuted and made suspicious by the governments, media and public opinion in the countries where they now live. we have seen this in the attempts to put the opposition in exile on a list of terrorist organisations and in the attempts to close the ashraf refugee camp in iraq. this parliament has rightly spoken out against these two cases recently. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, my speaking time was unjustly shortened, because it was two and a half minutes and the conclusion of my speech was: change will not come through foreign intervention and other forms of military force. that approach has been the very cause of the present regime in the past. in the case of foreign intervention, many people in iran who hate the current government are also rallying behind it to defend the fatherland. but we should not do the exact opposite. it is wrong to seek cooperation with this regime on the basis that the current group will remain in power for a long time, or that support for stability in this country is beneficial to europe's energy supply. the only way to improve the situation is to stand firmly for human rights and support the democratic opposition, including the victim we were discussing.
- a writer. - mr president, in madagascar the incumbent president was forced to resign after popular protests. he made deals with foreign companies that brought short-term revenue to his government but were harmful to his people. that made his position untenable. then, with the help of the military, the opposition leader, who was also the former mayor of the capital, was appointed interim president, despite the fact that he was too young to be appointed by law. this procedure, and especially the intervention of the army, has been criticised. the african union considers this an illegal coup d'état and rejects the new government. i think we could also draw a parallel with recent events in a european country, iceland. there too, the government was forced to resign after popular protests. a minority government with a completely different party composition came to power. no one thought it was a coup. in the meantime, new elections were held, in which the new government coalition won a large majority. a similar outcome is possible in madagascar, provided that elections are held within a foreseeable time.
mr president, i am a former resident of venezuela and i know the former situation in that country. especially during the dictatorship of marcos pérez jiménez in the 1950s. poverty and injustice were the hallmarks of life at that time, and i regard the government of hugo chávez as a very important improvement that was sorely needed. i think that even sympathetic governments should be polite to their opponents and not use techniques which make it more difficult for them. that is why i shall vote for the joint resolution because it is critical of the protection of democracy in general and is not aimed at overthrowing what i believe to be the positive regime of hugo chávez.
the party for freedom has come to this parliament to speak for the dutch people, to demand the money that the netherlands is paying too much to this wasteful and bureaucratic europe. the party for freedom was elected by the dutch people to this parliament to make it clear that the dutch people think that the enlargement of the european union has already gone too far. mr president, this parliament is dealing with tasks which must be regulated in the member states themselves. as far as our party is concerned, the european union should be concerned only with economic and monetary cooperation. with the dutch interest at the forefront, we look to the swedish presidency, because the swedish presidency does nothing for the dutch citizens. you simply want to continue with the european constitution rejected by the dutch people, which is 99% the same as the treaty of lisbon. nor are you doing anything about that expensive monthly move from brussels to strasbourg. in fact, you haven't even put that on the agenda. why not? - why not? it costs tens of millions of euros, and the only one who might be happy about this is ikea, which can supply moving boxes and extra cabinets. we also want the negotiations with turkey to be terminated immediately. turkey is an islamic country and the islamic ideology is at odds with our western civilization. turkey is not in europe at all, but in asia, and turkish membership is costing dutch citizens a lot of money. turkey may be a good neighbour, but it is not part of the european family. the pvv stands for a europe of sovereign states, but under the swedish presidency the construction of a federal superstate is being continued, in which the member states are increasingly unable to determine their own destiny. we hope therefore that the irish will have the courage to say no to the lisbon treaty again. the irish people now have the opportunity to be the voice of the european people and i would like to ask you on behalf of the freedom party what conclusions the swedish presidency will draw from the outcome of the irish referendum.
i would like to thank you for the ambitious plans you have laid down for the next six months. i can tell you that we have high expectations of you, because you have a reputation for being committed to european integration and to our european values from a young age. it is important that the solutions we offer and that you are working on to get out of the economic crisis strengthen our social market economy. it is also important that these solutions not only deliver for our citizens today and tomorrow, but also for the future of our children. that is why it is so important to build on a sustainable economy and to prevent climate change. it is good that you have given it such a high priority in your programme. i hope very much that your efforts in these areas will help to bring the member states closer together and that in the run-up to the copenhagen conference you will also be able to persuade the major players on a global scale to make a real contribution to a solution to climate change. the social market economy, mr president, also means that sustainable public finances are important, because public deficits are a burden for future generations. that is why it is important to respect the stability and growth pact, and it is also good that you have mentioned that explicitly. president, it is ironic, but the financial crisis is bringing iceland closer to the european union. i hope that the swedish presidency will be hospitable, but will also be very careful to ensure that iceland also meets the requirements for accession and respects its obligations under european law and towards the european member states.
may i begin by extending a warm welcome to council president bildt. i'm sure he's going to have some very busy months, because the problems in the world are going to be on his big, broad shoulders. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: firstly, the regime is unpredictable. secondly, i see that there are cracks in the regime, particularly in religious circles. thirdly, i find that the regime supports everything that is corrupt and wrong in this world - in the middle east or in pakistan. fourthly, i find that dialogue really does not help and, finally, i find that the citizens rightly want more freedom and that they must also have the support of us europeans. i ask you, mr bildt, why the council has not been able to make a stronger statement and why we have listened only to a few countries which still want to do business in spite of the human rights situation?
for the epp group inside and outside xinjiang, the call for jihad has already been sounded. and so the bloody clashes between han chinese and uighurs on chinese soil, at home and abroad, threaten to escalate dramatically. the indigenous christian community is strongly opposed to this dangerous religious dimension of ethnic conflict in xinjiang. she is praying for peace, stability and justice for all the citizens of xinjiang. ironically, the chinese government does not take this helping hand, but instead repressively strikes it down! this is evident from a direct government campaign against peaceful protestant house churches today. for example, on july 3, eight christians were arrested in xinjiang during a worship service. four of them are still being held in a secret location, and two chinese-american missionaries are simply missing. i urge you, council and commission, to intervene with the chinese authorities to ensure freedom of religion for all in this critical situation in xinjiang. the antidote to the call for jihad. proof also to the chinese house churches that they are included in beijing's striving for a harmonious society!
i have listened to the introductions of both the council and the commission and perhaps it is a matter of interpretation, but i have never heard the word uyghurs and we are talking about the uyghurs today, of course. there are hundreds of dead to be mourned and many more wounded. the european union stands firmly for fundamental rights, human rights, civil rights and peaceful demonstrations. we see that these are coming into very great trouble. i am of course aware of the need for dialogue in the introductions. i would like to stress this point very strongly. this dialogue is very important. i would like to know what specific measures the council and the commission are going to take in the near future.
it is good that we are talking about the disasters in southern europe on this first day of parliament's partsession, and i would also like to thank the colleagues who have worked particularly on these texts. there's a good resolution to it. first of all, of course, this is a matter of interpersonal involvement, close to the citizens, as we have always said in the context of our elections, and of solidarity. now it is the fires in southern europe, but who knows, this winter also with regard to floods in other parts of europe. in the committee on regional policy we have spoken on several occasions about the improvements to the solidarity fund. we do not want to ask for new instruments, but rather to improve the existing instruments, to make them more efficient. what is the odd part of this story, commissioner dimas? we have put this out across parliament, we have indicated exactly where these improvements could be, but the council is blocking this. the council has not done anything about it for two years. i ask you, is there any movement in that? you are right that progress has been made with regard to the pilot project and the aircraft used, but we have not heard anything at all about the underlying dossier which parliament has so insistently requested. is that still on the agenda? what's going on? as for the civil protection force: it is in itself a good thing that europe is using its own instruments, but the broad basis is in the member states themselves. the exchange of expertise, particularly in the larger region itself, should be the basis. finally, that recovery: repair damage, replanting and all that goes with it. this is not something that can be done centrally, but it must be done decentrally in the member states. but then there are the structural funds, the agricultural funds, so why not start? it can be an economic plan, as we have just heard, but it can also be a recovery plan which is broadly based and which is mainly centred on decentralized instruments. that is what this resolution is calling for and that is why we shall wholeheartedly support it tomorrow.
president, frontex is not working. the budget for poseidon, the operation that's going on right now, is 11 million. it's not going anywhere. it's wasted money. the only solution is to send them back immediately and to deal with the countries that allow them to immigrate in a very tough way. the european asylum and immigration policy is not in the interests of the dutch people. the freedom party i represent is strongly opposed to this. it will lead to even more disadvantaged people coming into europe. the dutch people are not waiting for solidarity, the dutch people are waiting for us to stand up for the dutch interest. so stop it. a further reaction to the swedish presidency. the swedish presidency believes that we must further open the borders to mass immigration, in the framework of the european labour market. the freedom party doesn't believe in this at all. it's a smoke screen being erected to allow mass immigration. look at what's happening in the big cities. look at the enormous problems there. think of your own people, think of your own country, think of your own culture. at least we will. i would also like to add that enough is enough. stop the mass immigration. this is as far as it goes.
mr president, mr barroso observed that we are living in extraordinary times – true – but extraordinary times call for extraordinary leadership. are you that leader, mr barroso? i did not support you back in 2004 and unfortunately in five years you have not done enough to convince me. a majority of my group, however, is willing to give you the benefit of the doubt, but we will reserve our final judgment until we have seen the full package of commissioners’ portfolios and the full details of your political programme, because do not forget, and i hope you hear the irony in this, the president of the european commission is a politician, and not a civil servant with job security. regardless of the outcome of the votes, this process has strengthened european parliamentary democracy because, contrary to what some in this house fear, obliging a candidate to campaign has not weakened but strengthened the position of commission president. because, the way i see it, a mandate by the european parliament for a political programme is a much more solid base than a nomination on the basis of a backroom deal between national governments. i also happen to believe, contrary to you, if i listened carefully, that the emergence of a real opposition in this house is very welcome and a healthy sign that european parliamentary democracy is vital and mature. so, mr barroso, the ball is in your court. will you meet the challenge? because you have not convinced me yet. but that is not nearly as relevant, mr barroso, as convincing the european citizens in the next five years. (applause)
president barroso, when the credit crisis broke out, you did nothing. it was the french presidency that found the way to the emergency exit. you didn't take back control. not with your economic recovery plan, which allowed the car industry to be subject to strict environmental conditions after state aid, nor with a proposal for better financial supervision. you surrendered in advance to the resistance of the city of london. the eu was already leading the global response to the climate crisis, but you are fast losing that. you're threatening to buy most of our carbon reduction from developing countries instead of reducing your own emissions. you can blame national governments for that, but not for that appallingly meager climate aid proposal to developing countries last week: two billion. that is a small tip in the light of the 30 to 35 billion which europe is supposed to provide. that is a heavy mortgage on the success of copenhagen. we have a credit crisis, we have an economic crisis, we have a climate crisis, three times the test of real leadership. mr barroso, it was three times insufficient.
madam president, mr barroso, the members of the dutch epp delegation will vote for you with conviction tomorrow. not only because we are convinced of your qualities, but also because we are in a hurry. we feel that the last two months have been wasted in fighting the economic crisis and we dutchmen are in a hurry. we do indeed want more social market economy in your programme. the previous commission was a little too liberal in this respect. we hope that you will continue the fight against redundant regulation, that you will make copenhagen a success, but that fewer european agencies will come. and then there are the citizens of europe. this afternoon, the word may have come up two or three times. that's not enough. we have seen in the european elections that we really have a duty to bring europe to the ears of ordinary people too. the opel workers who are being made redundant should immediately think of europe as a source of hope, as a source of employment. and then this. over the past six weeks, i've come to know you as a man of passion, a man of enthusiasm. when you're in conflict, you flourish. keep that up for the next five years. i want to see it every week.
mr barroso, you are not succeeding in getting support from the socialists and the greens, and that is actually in your favour. but it's going to be an exciting election, because if i look at it this way, you're sitting on about half the votes and every vote counts. of course you also want our vote, the vote of the second party in the netherlands, the party for freedom. we are prepared to give you that vote, but then you must promise to stop negotiating with turkey, you must promise to ensure that the netherlands is no longer the biggest net contributor to europe, to this bureaucratic europe, and you must promise to work for a europe of sovereign member states and not the federal superstate you seek. so i would ask you to come by our house tonight at 10 p.m. and we can talk about this. who knows, you will have our support if you make these pledges and you will be able to continue your work, but in a very different way from what you have done in the last five years.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. a financial sector that operates globally. we must therefore agree on binding rules on the world stage as much as possible. that is why the g20 in pittsburgh is so important, although the european union will of course have to act with determination. the effort must be directed towards restoring the balance between freedom and responsibility, the values which underlie our social market economy, the core of our epp electoral programme. the g20 summit is an important summit, where more than vision is at stake - fortunately you said so - it is a summit where knots must be cut. it is a question of structural change in risk management, more transparency, better rules for financial supervision. commissioner almunia, you said there were proposals for the hedge funds; what do you want to achieve at that point in the g20 summit? a rapid reform of the imf and the world bank is also badly needed. and - fortunately you both mentioned this - we must work on a coordinated exit strategy in good time, otherwise it will cause new problems. it is of the utmost importance, mr president, that the faulty bonus culture be tackled with binding rules, because bonuses that reward short-term gains are a great danger to the stability of financial institutions. but there's more. because there is a lot of public outrage, and rightly so, and that is why it is very important that we act on this. the summit is only a success if binding agreements are reached. i have dealt with financial regulation, but also climate change, the preparation of a successful copenhagen summit, the fight against protectionism in the interests of employment are of course very important. you, the european union, and we together, must play a leading role in this, and it is important that you bring the european member states together.
mr president, so far the g20 has concentrated on measures for the financial sector. however, everyone seems to forget that the real economy also suffers from greed and an obsession with short-term profits. i have deep respect for small enterprises which, against all odds, try to survive. they deserve to get the loans to which they are entitled. however, i have no respect at all for the management of some of the bigger companies which have no affinity with the products or services they deliver and can only think in terms of expansion and speculation. i therefore call upon the g20 to discuss ways of making the economy more democratic and how to make sure that, within the company, workers and others who represent the general interest have enough power to control the management. within the eu we have to look again at the statute for a european company. we should make sure that it becomes impossible for shareholders and management to engage in speculative growth strategies to the detriment of the long-term interest of the companies themselves and of those who work for these companies.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i will not say anything about the content, because i take it for granted that what is being negotiated is in line with european standards of legal protection and protection of personal data, but i would like some answers about the process. this is yet another example of the council taking decisions behind closed doors on citizens. the governments in europe and the united states want to know everything about our private lives, but we as citizens are not allowed to know what the council is doing. i think that's a little bit of a world on its head. the fight against terrorism has become almost a runaway train, with the council showing utter contempt for the european citizens and for parliamentary democracy. we hear every time, whether it's about swift, pnr, data retention and all of it, every time we hear: "this is essential in the fight against terrorism". i would like to believe that, madam minister, but when are we going to get the facts, when are we going to evaluate them? then there are some questions about swift that i really want to see answered, because on september 3rd, they weren't answered. why now? in 2007, it was already known that the architecture of swift would be changed. why does the council come up with this plan at the very last moment, in the summer, when the european parliament has not even been set up? why did you not consult the national parliaments on the mandate? - why? - why? is this not a case of policy laundering, madam minister, where it is actually the european governments trying to get access to our data through the american government? then just say it out loud! finally, as regards transparency. the documents, and in particular the legal opinion of the council's own legal service, must be made public, not in a small room for members of the european parliament alone, because we have already found them next to the photocopier, we already know what is in them, but for the citizens of europe. that's real transparency.
mr president, i have a small point of order. i note that once again we are not getting replies from the council to the questions that we put. i asked why the council waited for two years, until the very last moment, to decide on this deal, and i would also like to know – and we can get the answer in writing – why the national parliaments have been completely excluded from the whole procedure. finally, i read your answer, which was fairly vague and seemed to be saying that you will not publish the legal opinion of the legal service of the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. on the one hand, i appreciate that mr peterle's resolution clearly points out the many sore points in the tajik economy and society. on the other hand, i find it incomprehensible that at crucial moments euphemistically tajikistan is spoken of as a relatively stable country. i have just heard it again in a debate and i do not understand where it is coming from. but the european union gives the impression that this agreement must come about anyway. this has undeniable consequences for the force of the many criticisms which will be voiced afterwards. i find it quite baffling what i read in paragraph 2 about the disappointment of the tajik government. we must speak, ladies and gentlemen, of the disappointment of the protestant minority, for example, or of the muslims who are faced with a religious law which deeply interferes with their religious life. instead of this utterly misplaced disappointment, the tajik government should do its homework internally. i hope, commissioner, that it will be followed closely.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am in favour of visa liberalisation and i am also in favour of attaching certain criteria to visa liberalisation, but what i am more in favour of is peace and stability in the western balkans. what do you think it will do, especially to young people, to bosnian muslims, to see their croat- and serb-bosnian peers with double passports hopping in and out of the eu for a weekend? do we really want to take the chance of fostering nationalist feelings and deepening the divisions in a country where stability is still so fragile? and for what? bosnia and herzegovina is really not that far behind serbia in complying with the criteria. they are already issuing biometric passports and have made about the same amount of progress on the other criteria. i therefore strongly ask you to include bosnia and herzegovina in the present proposal for the sake of those people living there who are working very hard for a better future – with the memories of war still too fresh in their minds.
mr president, the minister has said it so well, visa liberalisation is necessary to strengthen ties with the eu, prevent rising nationalism and avoid isolation. how can the proposals threaten to isolate bosnian muslims? there is a great disparity within one country, because bosnian serbs and croats do get passports. unfortunately, muslims don't have a neighboring country that gives them passports. who's going to stand up for the bosnian muslims? is that the commission, is that the council? can you tell me specifically whether the commission or the council have held talks with croatia and serbia to also exercise restraint in the issue of passports? because this is going to create a lot of unrest, that's for sure.
author. − madam president, i think this is a very important subject that we are discussing here today. it is about european values. we put in the oral question and we have also drafted a joint resolution about the lithuanian law, which is allegedly about the protection of minors. but it actually does the contrary, because this law may well foster ignorance, taboo and stigma. it will expose young and vulnerable gay, lesbian and transgender people to bullying and exclusion. it will therefore lead to immeasurable distress and suffering by young people, the very people that this law is designed to protect. instead of protection it inflicts harm on young people. therefore we have addressed this question, and i am very happy that in the summer we received a letter from commissioner barrot expressing the european commission’s concern about this law, saying that the european commission will keep a very close eye on it and make sure that any national legislation is in line with european legislation and principles. i think that is very important, because the european commission should not only intervene when market rules are being violated but also, and in particular, when european values are being violated. we cannot tolerate discrimination. europe is a community of values – values which i know are shared by the majority of our lithuanian fellow citizens. we are all europeans. with reference to the resolution, colleagues, i would ask for your explicit support for the resolution and in particular for the amendment that seeks to insert a reference to the existing anti-discrimination directives, because i think that is the very minimum. i also ask for your support for the request in the resolution to ask the fundamental rights agency for a legal opinion on this law. finally, i think we can be proud, as a european parliament – if we adopt the resolution tomorrow – to be the voice of the shared values of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this law is not only an unacceptable violation of the rights of gays and lesbians in lithuania, it is a profound insult to homosexuals across europe. they are told by the lithuanian parliament that their orientation is something to be ashamed of, something children should be protected from. i therefore expect the commission and the swedish presidency to make it very clear to the lithuanian parliament that fundamental values such as equal treatment and non-discrimination are not negotiable in europe. not now, not ever, not by anyone. i therefore want the commissioner to give a concrete commitment here and now that the commission will not hesitate to take lithuania to the european court of justice if this law comes into force.
it is an honour to speak for the first time in this plenary session as a newly elected member. i do so as a former member of the house of commons and president of the liberal international, because i want to see european politics, national politics and international politics as one. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. president. - the next item is the report (doc. we're being blackmailed right now. we are unilaterally dependent on unstable regions and countries with undemocratic regimes. so we have to get rid of it. that is why my liberal group supports nabucco and desertec, and i would point out the great role played by my former group chairman, mr van aertsen, in this project. president. - i have two points to make. i am glad that the commission accepts that the business community has a major role to play. it cannot be only the public authorities - national governments, europe or international bodies - who deal with energy. the role of business is crucial. secondly, mr president, we must not accept taboos in this house. for example, the taboo on considering nuclear energy as part of the energy mix. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. nuclear energy, fusion and fission are vital. there are major problems with waste, but we must ensure that we include research and development and the exchange of knowledge. nuclear energy has a major role to play in countering the greenhouse effect. i repeat, there is no definitive position in my group either. we too must continue the debate, but we must not make nuclear energy a taboo in this house. i would therefore like to hear the commission's opinion.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i commend you on your integrated approach to this proposal. diversification is very important and i agree with my colleague hans van baalen who says that we must look at all forms of energy, including nuclear energy. but as i learned in elementary school, the sun is the source of all energy, and i think that's what we should focus on in the future. when it comes to diversification, we are not just talking about the types of energy, but also about the suppliers. many colleagues have spoken about russia. russia has still delivered when we asked, but in the future it will be important to have multiple suppliers. secondly, how can we guarantee that energy security? we can only guarantee this if we can also reach them through the networks, and i think that your main task in the coming years - you have now taken a number of bumps, nabucco, desertec - will be to create an integrated network in which the countries, all the european member states, have their noses in the same direction and also want to implement an integrated energy policy. you can ask institutional investors, private investors to get the money, but i think you need to start working on an integrated network, a kind of super grid, a ring line across europe that can reach every end user.
mr president, turkey plays an important role in reducing europe's dependence on russia. the question now is what price europe is prepared to pay for this country. turkey, meanwhile, is playing a double game, seeking to benefit from both the nabucco project and south stream. it is not in europe's interest. i call on the council and the commission to make a clear choice for the nabucco project. this project will directly reduce our dependence on russia, and given the slow decline in demand for gas in europe, the construction of two southern supply routes is completely unnecessary. turkey must come out and commit itself 100% to the nabucco project. however, the negotiations with turkey on this subject must be kept strictly separate from the accession negotiations with that country. it is not possible for turkey to be given a ticket to the union in exchange for cooperative action.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group does object to this change. (requests by the verts/ale group for the text of amendments 1 and 2 to be moved)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, again the alde group does have an objection. (requests by the verts/ale group for the text of amendments 1 and 2 to be moved)
mr president, this disaster was of an unprecedented scale for taiwan. in the mountains, it's a big drama. whole villages have disappeared and an estimated one thousand are dead or missing. thousands, if not more, of survivors are currently staying in military camps. the most important thing is to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i would therefore like to express my condolences to the government and people of taiwan. in addition to the practical help that mr goedhart is giving to his taiwanese friends today, and also in appreciation of what has already been done on the european side, i would like to put a couple of questions to the european commission which are aimed at strengthening european-taiwanese relations. first of all, the commission will be putting forward a proposal next month on the relaxation of the visa regime for taiwanese nationals. the united kingdom and ireland have already set the example. secondly, a recent european report shows clearly that there are huge gains for taiwan and the european union in agreeing on trade enhancing measures, tem. does the commission agree with this urgent conclusion? finally, mr president, i can fully endorse the calls by colleagues who have already called for breaking the improbable international isolation of taiwan. that is truly intolerable, especially when the lives of civilians are at stake, wherever they may be.
mr president, the alde group, like many groups in this parliament, sympathizes with the people of taiwan who are affected and is pleased that the european commission has responded as it has. the commission must also continue to do so. but the big problem besides this human disaster is, of course, taiwan's isolation. you can maintain a one-china policy and at the same time create good working relations with taiwan. taiwan could well play an observer role in the world health organization. the same is true of the world meteorological organization or the un convention on climate change. all of this is possible and does not stand in the way of the one-china policy. i agree with mr belder on the relaxation of the visa regime and also with his good words to mr goedhart, the dutch representative in taipei. i think that we should not continue to isolate taiwan. working relationships, that's what it's all about.
mr president, dutch football legend johan cruyff has said it: every advantage has a disadvantage. the treaty of lisbon has the advantage of giving the member states a greater say and giving national parliaments more influence. the disadvantage is that the centre of gravity of power is shifting more towards europe. that is a disadvantage, mr president, which should not be underestimated in this parliament. in the last thirty years we have seen that the growth of power in europe has been inversely proportional to the turnout of our citizens in the european elections. more power to brussels was accompanied by a lower turnout in the european elections. if lisbon comes into force, this should be the lesson for europe: the european union must be pragmatic and must prove its added value over and over again. only then can we win the support of the voters in europe.
mr president, the freedom party sees no good in this proposal. the netherlands, and the netherlands alone, must decide on the exercise of jurisdiction. it seems that more and more proposals are being made which ultimately amount to the harmonization of the criminal law of the member states. examples of these are: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the pvv, the party for freedom, wonders what the ultimate goal of this is. we cannot accept a european code of criminal law and a european code of criminal procedure. it's like a salamander tactic where you get a slice of the sausage shoved down your throat every time and you end up eating the whole sausage.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, people may think that i will speak in italian, and people might want to make this an italian debate, but i am dutch. i am a dutch member of this parliament and i am very frustrated by the idea that we are talking here as if the issue were an internal italian debate. the point is not the way that things are going in italy – the pressure on journalists, the self-censorship journalists are starting to apply in italy. the point is that it is a disgrace for europe. how are we going to tell new member states, applicant member states, that they have to have a plural media, that every voice has to be heard in their country, that there should be a debate between all colours and all political parties, if we are unwilling to tell italy that they have to shape up, that it is wrong to push journalists to change their attitude, that it is wrong to have one person ruling both commercial television and public television. mr verhofstadt has asked for this and i will also ask for it. mrs reding, you said europe is doing its best, fundamental rights are fundamental but not when it comes to a member state that is already a member state. that cannot be true. this is one of the copenhagen criteria. everybody has to stick to the copenhagen criteria. (applause) in order to ensure that this is not an italian debate i am also asking for a media concentration directive. the european parliament has asked for this twice: when is the commission going to deliver? this heated debate we are having is one which the ppe group even tried to take off the agenda with the argument that it would not be european. this heated debate shows that something is going on. people are shouting, people are being emotional about it – which is good, because freedom of speech, a plural press, is the key of our democracy. in italy, 80% of the people get their daily information from television. if that television is not broadcasting all voices, then people do not get the chance to make their own decisions. that is fundamental to democracy. (applause) we are all educated people. we all have to learn to deal with various truths and make our own truth out of that, and people in italy have the right to do so. people in bulgaria, people in the netherlands have a right to do so, and i stand up for that right. i might be dutch, i might not be italian, but i do care for citizens in the whole of europe. trying to get this debate taken off this agenda, trying to say it is not our case, is something we should be ashamed of. the way things are going in italy makes that country very vulnerable in its democracy. let us get something going. media concentration, please, mrs reding. (applause)
madam president, i have to confess i was rather shocked by the statement of commissioner reding because, indeed, the member states are primarily responsible for ensuring respect for democracy and fundamental rights. but you are wrong if you say that the eu has no role to play here. first of all, there is article 6 of the treaty on european union, which reads: ‘the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the member states.’ and to prove that that was not just a hollow statement, the european union furnished itself with article 7 – the legal instrument to enforce article 6. secondly, mrs reding, when we are negotiating with candidate states, we insist that they apply the highest standards of press freedom, otherwise they cannot join the european union. this demand has been laid down in the copenhagen criteria – so why do we apply different standards to candidate states from those applied to current member states, commissioner reding? there are other countries where there are violations of press freedom or freedom of speech, such as the czech republic, which has just passed a law restricting the freedom of the press, or ireland, which has passed a draconian blasphemy law. commissioner reding, i conclude by saying if we are serious about being a community of values, then the european commission needs to act.
in writing. the party for freedom (pvv) is in favour of emergency aid. however, it is up to the individual member states to provide emergency aid and not the european union. − the
mr president, after ten years of talking, we are now close to the copenhagen climate conference. we have 50 days to agree on ambitious targets that are binding not only on europe but also on the united states and countries like china and india. an ambitious agreement requires adequate financing - which was also discussed in the debate - and not just from the european union. all countries will have to come up with funding so that developing countries can also participate in a climate agreement, because solidarity with the poorest of the poor must be firmly anchored in a climate agreement. the commission has rightly taken the lead in financing. but what mr florenz was referring to is that we are in this parliament, in effect, competing with each other for the 'higher, the more'. the question is whether that really helps. you have rightly challenged the member states to join in, and i also commend the swedish presidency for the efforts it is making. but the united states and the emerging economies will also have to come across the bridge. you can count on our support. however, there is still much work to be done in europe as well. while we are among the world's leaders in our emissions standards, compared to the united states, private investment in technological innovation and sustainability lags far behind. i expect more from positive incentives for green investment and innovation by companies than from a new european tax. because at a time when we desperately need more activity and employment, we need to challenge european investors and businesses more to play their part in this necessary transition in europe and globally.
president, the climate summit must succeed and that is why europe must speak with one voice and play a leading role in the negotiations. copenhagen is important because god's creation is very fragile and has been profoundly affected by human activity. particular attention is needed in the developing countries. the people of these countries are not contributing much to climate change, but they are paying the price. crops are dried up or washed away by floods, villages are destroyed by cyclones, entire regions are set back years in a single night. our industrialized countries have contributed greatly to climate change. we therefore have a responsibility to provide adequate and sustainable financial and technical support to developing countries. the bali action plan has put that very well. it is therefore also important that sufficient european money is made available, because that is what it is all about. that is why we say that the climate fund must be replenished with at least 15 billion euros a year, plus a contribution from the other major economies in the world. they too must not shirk their obligations. finally, i am glad that the president-in-office of the council has referred to deforestation. we think that is essential. stopping deforestation is the way to reduce co2.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). fortunately, that is not the case in the debate today. forests and tropical rainforests offset a significant proportion of co2 emissions. land-use change, such as deforestation and rainforest degradation, are responsible for at least 18% of today's co2 emissions. an equally ominous consequence of deforestation is that it drives many indigenous peoples in developing countries from their lands and from their livelihoods. the cdm is also not working, which is funding projects in developing countries to be able to emit more co2 themselves. unfortunately, the world still operates in such a way that the interests of rich countries and large industries are put before socioeconomic justice. deforestation must be stopped, but industrialized countries have a moral obligation to support developing countries technically and financially in this endeavour.
mr president, in the pacific region thousands of people are being displaced because their islands are being submerged, and in sudan livestock is dying of thirst. these are images that we've all seen, and in the face of these and other impacts of climate change, one thing must come to the fore: the polluter pays. in december, in copenhagen, the world will face the historic task of giving meaning to those words. so far, however, poor countries, according to oxfam's calculations, have been self-financing three quarters of the adjustments, while oil has been disappearing unimpeded from poor countries, often without a reasonable payment going to the developing countries' coffers. climate change is costing developing countries more than 100 billion euros a year in the future. that's not development money, it's just creating the conditions for development, because maybe an island in the pacific is not going to sink because of climate policy, or because desertification is being stopped, so that people can continue to live and work where they want. of course, there are climate measures that can also boost the development of poor countries. whoever plants trees is fighting desertification. but at the moment, climate policy is being funded mainly by development funds, and that is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds are used to the full. the developing countries are now being hit three times. most eu member states are not living up to their own development policy promises, the economic crisis is reducing investment in poor countries and the development budget is falling. fourthly, you can add that the poor countries themselves have to pay for the climate damage they did not cause. that logic must be broken in copenhagen with new financing methods. development policy will now also have to be aligned with climate policy. the two will have to be matched like never before. the first priority must be to give the developing countries themselves a voice in the transparent spending of a climate fund. then the fund must be created, for the eu and for the world.
mr president, in the end there is only one solution to the climate problem, and that is technology. only with new technology will we be able to maintain our way of life. but the development of technology itself is too slow, and especially the spread of technology, especially to developing countries, is far too slow. climate is a global problem, but using the best available technology together is not one of them. under kyoto, this has failed utterly, so let's learn from it. of course, we have to take intellectual property into account. it is precisely those companies which are at the forefront of development that should be encouraged and rewarded. but we need to spread that knowledge faster. the montreal protocol created a fund for this purpose and there are ideas for a multilateral climate technology fund. can the commission and the council explain their views on this? finally, stopping deforestation is of particular importance for developing countries. i understand, however, that there is now a division within the european union over the role of forests, mainly due to sweden, finland and austria. how can we stop developing countries from deforesting if the eu itself is ambiguous about its forests? i would like to thank the commissioner for his comments.
president. - we are talking about climate change, but we should be talking about the people who are most affected by climate change, and those are the least developed countries. in the maldives, they are fighting rising water, in sudan, they are fighting for fertile land. the commission has always assumed that market players will make a significant contribution to climate adaptation. but if you talk to all the investors, they always say the same thing: "yes, we give money, but mostly to emerging economies. we're not going to invest in the vulnerable countries". these are volatile markets, and climate adaptation spending is on small projects. that's not what investors put their money in. it must now be very clear that public money must go to the least developed countries. the world bank clearly states that it should be at least 80 billion. it is time for the eu to show serious leadership with a serious offer and not the vague offer of 2 to 15 billion. the eu simply has to follow the european parliament and come up with at least 30 billion.
madam president, ‘success or failure, that is the question’. all types of crises have already been mentioned, but one has been forgotten next to global warming, which is the crisis of public confidence in politics. i agree with mr carlgren. let us not make this a beauty contest about who is more or less ambitious, more realistic or less realistic or more or less willing to pay. we need four clarities, because too much is at stake: we need a clear and ambitious political stance; we need a clear commitment; we need a clear path and clear deadlines; and last but not least we need clarity on financial support. if copenhagen is not a complete success let us not cry wolf and start naming and shaming, but let us set out a clear process and time path in order to come to a result. let us show we are reliable and responsible, both in target-setting and in a fair financial perspective.
in writing. the party for freedom (pvv) is in favour of emergency aid. however, it is up to the individual member states to provide emergency aid and not the european union.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. when it comes to climate change emissions targets, europe is leading the way compared to the united states. however, the united states leads the way in terms of private investment in technological innovation and sustainability, which is hugely important for small and medium-sized enterprises and for employment. it was actually also a spearhead in your crisis and recovery plan. but what is your ambition at this point? when will we be on a par with the united states and what are you doing, commission, and what can you do to achieve that level? in a broad sense, our smes still face many barriers. this is a major obstacle to the growth potential of smes. what will you do to complete the single market? because that is a great source of growth for our employment.
the 2010 budget is being drawn up under special economic and financial circumstances. the rapporteur, mr surján, wants to set priorities in the enlargement process, and i very much appreciate that. i support him in his efforts to achieve the european union's core tasks and in the lines of action which are particularly important for economic recovery. the result, however, is all too often that more money is spent, and this in spite of the fact that the council has already made less rigorous cuts in the draft budget than in other years. i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr surján, for his open and constructive attitude, which was reflected in my amendment on improvements in childcare, in particular deinstitutionalization. this amendment on the european social fund was adopted with broad support in the committee. the european union and the member states should help to ensure that children who move out of their homes are able to grow up as much as possible in a family. in a time when we are concentrating on economic measures, we must not forget such expenditure of great social importance. otherwise, in economically difficult times, these children will become the children of the account, and that is unworthy of the eu.
mr president, the members of this house often speak of solidarity between member states. and understandably so, because how easy is solidarity when it's paid for out of someone else's pocket? on september 23, the figures for 2008 were released. the dutch are once again feeling more than any other european how much the scandalous euro-philist dream is eating away at their paychecks. the biggest net contributor is, of course, the dutch citizen - the "mad henkie" of the class. the dutch pay a whopping 267 euros a year to europe. the party for freedom, the largest party in the netherlands according to opinion polls, will continue to fight against this. it is also a shame that the netherlands is the third biggest contributor to the net payments for 2008, after germany and italy. the party for freedom wants the dutch citizen to be treated no longer as europe's money machine. we must stop giving money to corrupt countries, stop the globalisation and cohesion fund, stop the relocation circus, stop the left-wing projects and give the dutch baker, butcher and vegetable farmer back their hard-earned pennies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's called solidarity. it's theft. the pvv will never even think of approving a budget for the european union if the dutch citizen is so disproportionately disadvantaged.
i am very pleased to be able to participate on behalf of the committee on regional policy. it is there that the policies that are needed so close to the people are made, and especially in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing. first of all, i would like to thank mr surján for his help in detecting the positive signals. in a time of crisis, financial commitments, particularly in regional policy, cannot be violated, amounts cannot be reduced. i think it is excellent that that is now being restored. in a time of crisis, you have to be present. that is what the european parliament and the commission have done in the proposals adopted just before the holidays. we have more flexibility, we can make our budgets available sooner, and we can also invest more in energy-efficient buildings and housing, for example. i am also pleased with the additional budgets made available for three pilot projects. the representatives of the regions have met in recent weeks at the open days in brussels and they indicate that they can very well use these resources to enable better participation in policy in a wide range of areas. that's close to the people, like i said. i was later told by mr van der stoep, another dutch representative, that he rejected these measures. for example, look at cross-border language projects: they promote people's participation. we are happy to support that. there was one small problem, but mr surján solved it well. it was said in the debate that the green new deal should be paid for out of the resources, the regional resources. of course, sustainable policies are excellent, but the adoption of such a proposal in its entirety would raise a lot of expectations in the regions and among colleagues too, which are not going to be fulfilled. we have indicated in the regulations for the structural funds exactly what can be done in terms of innovation, sustainable policy and ecology, and therefore it is good to use that as an example only and not to say that we are going to amend the regulation to that effect.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: we must also count our blessings that we have taken an important step towards the treaty of lisbon. of course we are all concerned about the czechs. we will respectfully await the court's ruling, but i kindly ask you to be patient and wise with mr klaus. if we hit him, it might backfire. copenhagen and the success of the conference is a source of hope for europe, but also for the world. sustainability is a source of technological development. major technological developments in europe, such as the storage of co2, could also help to counter the economic crisis. that's my third point: the economic crisis. we want a europe of the people. more attention should be paid to employment and in that respect the council's plans are good. however, for many citizens the council's plans are still very distant and very unknown. the financial supervision of banking institutions is also very important, and i hope that you will be able to make progress on this next week. finally, the approach to the asylum problem. i very much support the intentions of the swedish presidency, but concrete results, including in the council, are still to come. last week, at the libe committee meeting, the complaint was raised that the commission, council and parliament are still not achieving concrete results.
mr president, it is extremely important to fight the economic crisis, and that also means helping the small and medium-sized enterprises. we must be committed to the outcome of the stoiber committee, and i want to hear from both the commission and the council whether they are committed to this process and what we are going to do, because we have to cut red tape. another point i would like to discuss is the ankara protocol. the turkish minister of foreign affairs said in a public interview in the hague that turkey will not ratify or implement the ankara protocol. that is a statement in an authorised interview in de volkskrant of 7 october 2009. what are we going to do? we cannot, as commissioner rehn said in the foreign affairs committee, just kindly ask again. the deadline is 1 november. what action are we going to take?
president. - i am not impressed by mr berlusconi's political and moral leadership and italy is unfortunately not in the top of the list of countries with a free press. however, information and freedom of the press are primarily a matter for italy itself. the italians must take care of this themselves. fortunately, this is also happening, for example, with the lifting of the immunity of the italian prime minister. the recent creation of the il fatto quotidiano magazine also shows that the critical press exists in italy and is being given a space. i therefore call on the italians to continue to be vigilant against any possible infringement of their freedom of the press. i hope that the brussels bureaucracy will not have to interfere in this. we do not want more europe, but a europe which concentrates on its core tasks. only then will europe win the confidence of the electorate.
in writing. − the green/efa group, together with the sd group, alde and gue have tabled a common text. until the very last moment, all these groups proved their willingness to take on board other political groups in this house, including proposals by the epp to include concern about press freedom in other member states. it turned out that these proposals were not serious attempts to find a consensus. the price to pay for such an agreement was the deletion of any reference to italy, as well as our call on the commission to put forward a directive on media concentration and pluralism in the eu, which constitute the very essence of our resolution. the amendments tabled by the epp only sought to dilute the text and were an attempt to divide the supporters of the text. that is why the greens had to vote against even if, at least for some of them, we could have reached an agreement during the negotiations. that is not a constructive way of working on the part of the epp. we regret that the right-wing groups once again refused to ask for a european response to a european problem.
mr president, now that the irish referendum is over, the european parliament is once again showing its worth with great speed and zeal. the report presents a utopian vision of an external service to implement the common foreign policy, which has not yet been put into effect. the report is notable for its heroic call for the commission to exert its full institutional weight. why this attitude? i think that many of my colleagues want to use the external service as a trojan horse to get a grip on the cfsp through the commission. it is a shame that the european parliament and the other institutions have no idea how this service should function. the gradual process referred to in paragraph 4 is nothing but an institutional gamble and it must end in institutional fragments. forgive the pun.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in moldova. it is a catastrophe, as dr aneli gabani, one of europe's leading experts on moldova, informed me yesterday. a new government may have been installed in chişinău on 25 september with a hopeful name and programme, the alliance for european integration, but the still strong communist party is already preparing its return to power by forcing new elections, as expected. if the european union wishes to support the european course of the present moldovan government, brussels must act very quickly. the council and the commission should therefore urge the imf to provide assistance to moldova as soon as possible without immediately demanding social cuts. give the reform-minded cabinet a political respite. the european union must of course also make a financial contribution in this case. after all, the political future of moldova is on the european agenda here today.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, there are no winners, according to the meaningful report of the commission of inquiry into the armed conflict in georgia in the summer of 2008. i do not share that conclusion. of course, there was and is a winner: russia, please. the kremlin, with the help of the georgian president, is militarily and resolutely blocking the political annexation of abkhazia and south ossetia. the georgian state is the loser, and it can still take comfort in the support of the russian orthodox church, which continues to maintain that abkhazians and south ossetians are georgian citizens. and i would like to emphasize this praiseworthy attitude of the moscow patriarchate. the european union is a major player in the world economy. the tagliavini committee rightly denounces the mass issuing of russian passports to georgian citizens in abkhazia and south ossetia as contrary to international law. this erosion of georgian sovereignty is reflected today in the identical undermining of ukrainian state sovereignty in crimea. there too, russia is generously offering ukrainian citizens new passports. the european union therefore has an important political lesson from the taglivini report in helping kiev effectively to defend its national independence against any neighbour. the european projects in crimea are an excellent opportunity, and so are those in georgia.
mr president, we could vote en bloc. i propose we vote from 56 to 28. (applause)
i voted against the budget because all the items are being kept the same or increased, while all the member states are struggling with falling incomes. and then we will spend more here in europe! i don't understand that. i also voted against because it is now established that each member of parliament is entitled to eur 4 202 for general expenses in addition to his salary and travel and subsistence allowance. members are expected to spend this large sum on, among other things, office and telephone expenses, but no member is obliged to account for the expenditure of this sum of money. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i find this absolutely reprehensible. if this parliament is serious about itself, it must stop this practice. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the budget, but that it should be involved in the budget itself.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on the single cmo regulation (rule 142) because the proposed measures from commission do not go far enough in my opinion. the crisis in the dairy sector is a problem that needs urgent action, and that is also why i voted in favour of the urgent procedure under rule 142 for the single cmo regulation adjustments. however, the current commission proposal is too weak and i would like to see, in the very short term, adequate and supporting measures that are effective in combating the crisis in the dairy sector. voting in favour of this proposal would preclude any future, more effective, measures.
author. − mr president, any government derives its legitimacy from providing for the well-being of its own citizens. any regime that fails at this most basic responsibility loses its legitimacy in the international community. current self-isolation is leading to destruction in iran and has a toxic impact on neighbouring countries and on the rest of the world. we cannot stand by and watch minor offenders being hanged, people being raped and arbitrary violence wrought upon citizens by their own regime. we stand here to restate that there cannot and will not be impunity for those guilty of committing crimes against humanity, and we will continue to stand with the iranian people as they exercise their right to free speech and peaceful protest for freedom and democracy. the european union has a responsibility in keeping these universal rights on the agenda, including when trade interests or the nuclear programme of iran are at issue. only when the iranian regime earns its legitimacy from its citizens can it be a credible player in the international community.
president. - there is no doubt that the human rights situation in the islamic republic of iran has deteriorated dramatically in recent months. a striking illustration of this is the current development in the repressive apparatus that president ahmadinejad has at his disposal to stifle any form or even appearance of opposition to his dubiously legitimate rule. the infamous basiji fighting squads have now been incorporated into the iranian revolutionary guard, another sinister organization. what can the european union do in this area? two things in particular. we must, together with the americans, as the western world, concentrate on individual cases of serious human rights violations in iran (see also our resolution). in direct response to this, we must make it clear to tehran that these violations are intolerable and have serious consequences. when national interests are at stake, particularly economic interests, the iranian pragmatists naturally emerge. after all, they can even invoke the founder of the islamic republic of iran, the late ayatollah khomeini. when it came to it, he also resolutely chose the interests of the nation over religious demands. the commission, the council, look for the weak spots of the ayatollahs, first of all for a more tolerable living environment for the iranian people, for the security of the jewish state of israel, not to forget the arab world, and also the european union.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). you don't do that, you're going to iran. iran is a frightening country and i am thinking particularly of the christians in iran. muslims who convert to christianity literally have no life in iran. the iranian parliament passed a law last year that makes apostasy from the islamic faith punishable by death. but protesters don't have a life in iran either. three people who were arrested during the demonstrations against the presidential election results have now been sentenced to death. it is absolutely wrong and incomprehensible that a court has passed this sentence. there may still be a chance to appeal the verdict, but it's clear to everyone: even as a protester, your life in iran is not safe. i call on the council and the commission to give strong support to these protesters in the course of the proceedings and, above all, to make a strong stand against the brutal iranian regime.
i have read with great interest the swedish presidency document on the external service. my skepticism about this project has not diminished. i think it is wise, in any case, that the swedish presidency has allowed extra time for the search for the right candidates for the new posts. the high representative must be a sheep with five legs, and there are not many of those in europe. i am still very concerned, mr president, about the impact of these new posts on the interinstitutional balance. my colleagues must share this view. unlike them, i am satisfied that the external service remains outside the commission. foreign policy is a primary task of the member states and if europeanization is to take place, i would prefer to see the climate in the council rather than in the commission. that is exactly what is happening now, despite all our well-meaning resolutions.
the european parliament will vote tomorrow on the abolition of the short-stay visa requirement for balkan countries. not all countries for which a roadmap has been drawn up will be eligible for an exemption as of 1 january. it is very unfortunate that as a result of the commission's proposal there will be a difference between populations in one country, in bosnia-herzegovina. those who are entitled to travel to europe without a visa on the basis of a croatian or serbian passport and those who do not hold such a passport: the bosnian muslims. a painful distinction, given the recent history of this country. tomorrow it will be up to the european parliament to send a signal to bosnia-herzegovina and albania. criteria are criteria, and to be eligible for the visa waiver, those requirements will have to be met. but once you meet the benchmarks, the visa exemption must be implemented as soon as possible. we see that much has been done to achieve the benchmarks and we call on the commission to assist bosnia-herzegovina and albania to meet all the requirements as soon as possible.
president. - on 28 june, the military deposed the legitimately elected president zelaya in honduras. this military coup, which took place at that time, is an act which i condemn in the strongest terms. the democratic rule of law in honduras must be restored, and this must be done peacefully, through dialogue. we have been negotiating intensively for months, and almost two weeks ago - coincidentally when we were in the region with the delegation for relations with central america - it seemed that a historic agreement had been reached in honduras through dialogue, which would mean the restoration of democracy and the rule of law, the return of the legitimately elected president and a government of national unity, and finally a truth commission to examine the situation. an agreement which, if implemented, would lend legitimacy to the upcoming elections. but that agreement is not on the table at the moment. i would like to express my strong wish that the parties concerned in honduras return to the negotiating table to implement the agreement reached earlier. to undo the military coup through dialogue. this is the duty of the honduran people. they're the ones who are most affected by this political crisis. in the event of no democratic solution, it seems at the moment that the elections will not be widely recognised. this will have far-reaching consequences for the central american integration process, for the negotiations on an association agreement. years of stagnation that will be the people's undoing. to my fellow members of parliament, who are already hinting at recognition of the forthcoming elections, i say the following: we must not send the signal to honduras, central america and the rest of the world that we are tolerating a coup. at the moment, all energy must be directed towards restoring democracy. if meps indicate in advance that there will be support for the elections, neither zelaya nor micheletti will be induced to return to the negotiating table. this is a way of becoming part of the problem rather than part of the solution, and it is a way of playing into the hands of undemocratic forces and divisions.
the freedom party is now in the european parliament for the first time and is shocked by the money-hungry attitude of the members of parliament. in that sense, parliament seems to be anti-parliament. the aim seems to be to extract as much money as possible from the pockets of the hardworking european citizen, but above all also from the hardworking dutch citizen. billions are being spent on left-wing hobbies such as climate change and development aid, while in the netherlands people are not being treated in care homes, the aow is being raised to 67 years and the police must cut back. mr president, this parliament should be there for the people, but it is there only to carry out its own politically correct, wasteful plans and those of its elitist friends. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the party for freedom deeply regrets that the terrible treaty has been shoved down the throat of the dutch citizen. but unfortunately, it is there and we too will unfortunately have to learn to live with it. mr. speaker, the freedom party is working constructively in this house. we cannot accept the report in question. the netherlands is the largest net contributor per capita and we want to see that change quickly. i would ask the rapporteur to add to the report a statement in which the european parliament calls on the council to put an end as soon as possible to the continuing position of the netherlands as the largest net contributor per citizen. mr president, if that is mentioned in the report, there will be four extra green lights in this chamber when we vote today. so i think that is an opportunity for the rapporteur. i would also like to say that we will support all the amendments tabled by the edf.
the european parliament has rightly made a number of points: the security of access, net neutrality and enhanced surveillance. the overall package as it stands is remarkably balanced. on the one hand, you are seizing the opportunities for real competition, for growth in this sector, also in economic terms - jobs and economic contributions - and on the other hand, consumer protection is expressly well regulated in this package. consumers suspected of committing a crime can only be excluded after a legal check and a clear procedure. there is also the possibility of appeal, and the established rights of man are duly respected. last week, there was a major un conference on internet governance, which was also attended by a delegation from the european parliament. then it turns out that the whole world is watching how we run things here. in many countries and large areas of the world, the state controls what can be shown on the internet, and when and how citizens are locked out or allowed on the internet. we are giving an example of a good legislative framework, which balances the market with the protection of the citizen. the non-governmental civil society organisations in particular are also looking at how this package is arranged. i have had the pleasure of witnessing this over the last week and i would point out that we are making telecommunications history here. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs trautmann, for her excellent way of looking at the margins. this is the result of a fine art of negotiation. the council was not initially prepared to go that far.
there's a lot of good in this package, but there are also some things in it that i have some serious concerns about. one of the points is, of course, the three strikes out system, which i still do not understand why it is in this telecom package in the first place. it's a very strange element in the whole package. i also do not understand why europe should give the member states a reason to introduce such a system, since they can do that themselves and they do not need europe for that. so i think this is another great example of policy laundering. i am disappointed that this parliament has not turned its back on the council and said to the council: this is what we voted on and we stand by it. i shall be considering my final vote, because, as i said, there is a lot of good in it. but at the same time i think that the telecommunications package as a whole is still somewhat incoherent and lacking, and that it is not clear in which areas it is or is not applicable. so i assume that this is a first step, but i would like to have more guarantees, more commitments that the problem that the three strikes out is trying to solve is not going to be solved by this telecom package, and that we are going to look at good arrangements to reward and protect intellectual, creative and financial efforts.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will be very brief in order to make up for mr nicholson and ensure that we do not run late. the lisbon treaty will be in force – if i calculate correctly – seven days and five hours from now. i must say that the rush by the council to adopt a whole series of decisions is somewhat embarrassing in the light of this. what i also find embarrassing is that there is an empty seat here, where i would have hoped to see the council so that we could actually have an exchange of views. i basically endorse the proposals made by the previous speaker. of course we support the development of europol. we want a strong europol. we want a europol that is able to operate and fight against crime, but we also want a europol that is subject to democratic scrutiny. i therefore endorse the proposal made by the previous speaker to ask the council to withdraw the proposals on europol and present a new proposal within a maximum of six months – and preferably earlier – under the lisbon treaty. finally, when it comes to the specific subject that i am rapporteur for – which is europol and the transfer of personal data and confidential documents to third parties – i would like to hear from the council – which is absent – on how it feels about the analysis made by the european parliament’s legal service to the effect that the legal basis chosen for this particular proposal is the wrong one. i do not know who is going to answer for the council, but maybe it can come back on this and send somebody who can provide us with a reply.
i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for his answers and for his reflection on the various subjects. judicial cooperation in the european union is of great importance. when we talk about the europe of the people, we are talking above all about judicial cooperation. within this framework, the fight against crime is a top priority, especially as it is increasingly transnational. national crime is almost a felony; it is often the great transnational crime. in this connection, the group of the european people's party is also in favour of a firm position on europol, but also on eurodac, and in this context on the forensic laboratories. an important element in the fight against organised crime is democratic control of those who fight crime. i don't want to take any of that away. i would like to draw attention to the position of the victim in this context, including the proposals we are going to be discussing in the coming months. crime prevention is often about the rights of the accused, and rightly so: the privacy of the defendant and his position in the criminal process are important. but i want more attention to the victim's position for the next five years. fundamental rights, mr president, are not absolute; they must always be exercised within a framework. as the dutch constitution says: i'm not responsible for the law. that goes for the suspects as well as the victims. i understand and i agree that parliament is saying at this moment on these four dossiers: stop right there! we have to wait until 1 december, then the new proposals and then the reality: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
rapporteur. − mr president, before i make my intervention, i too would like to extend my gratitude to commissioner barrot. i can only say that he has set the standards very high for his successor. i will not go into the substance, because i think we should have that debate later, but i will briefly come back to the procedure, because i would like to clarify one thing. i have heard indirectly, as it were from the empty chair over there, that there is a very good reason why the council is in a rush, namely because we do not want to stop europol working. it has to become an agency by 1 january. but if the council were sincerely interested in the views of the european parliament it could have been here. it could have started the procedure much earlier than the end of july. it could even have accepted the european parliament’s offer to work very quickly, because the parliament always shoulders its responsibilities, and we work very quickly if we have to. we offered that to the council by way of a procedure that would be in the spirit of lisbon at the very least. we asked for one month’s extension, but the council was simply unwilling to give us that extension; and the fact that the council is absent today, and has not been interested in talking to the european parliament, only demonstrates that they simply do not want to involve the european parliament; it demonstrates their insincerity. i regret that, because, by now, it is seven days, three hours and forty minutes away: we will have to work together. i would just like to point out here that, as has been said very well by one of our colleagues, this is not about our egos. it is not about the european parliament being sidelined; it is not even about the national parliaments being sidelined. this is about accountability to the citizen, because it concerns very important decisions. we are talking about the transfer of personal data and confidential documents to third parties, about the data and confidential information of our citizens, the people that we represent. those are the ones that the council is accountable to, more than to us. finally, i heard what the commissioner said, but i would like to have a statement from the european council promising – given that they have rushed through this whole package – that they will withdraw or review the decision as quickly as possible, within a maximum of six months, and then fully involve the european parliament in a full codecision procedure and be accountable to the citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group the clock is ticking. we are faced with the important challenge of securing an ambitious agreement on climate change in copenhagen. and as december approaches, there are setbacks. obama can't deliver on his campaign promise yet. but there are also hopeful signs, such as the ambitions of the new japanese government. i would like to commend the swedish presidency and the european commission, and in particular commissioner dimas, for their efforts. we are your allies. and i would also like to commend you for your efforts to bring european leaders to a standstill. because more than ever it is important that europe speaks with one voice in these crucial negotiations. i can say on behalf of the epp group that we hope that you and i will reach an ambitious agreement which will lead to binding reduction targets for the european union, the united states and japan. but equally for countries like china, brazil and india. equal ambitions are important to effectively tackle climate change and to create a global level playing field. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). europe must play its fair part in this. but with you i say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. this could be a concrete, visible outcome of the copenhagen summit, a hopeful signal. at the same time, it is very important that agreements are made to ensure that these funds will actually and effectively contribute to the reduction of climate change, as well as agreements on technology transfer and protection of intellectual property rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the climate convention can be an important catalyst for this, also for us in europe, so that our social market economy is increasingly transformed into a sustainable social market economy.
we have two weeks before the copenhagen conference begins. a crucial moment to reach an ambitious climate agreement. the european union rightly says that an agreement must be reached in copenhagen, our climate cannot be delayed. the science is clear. to meet the two-degree target, the target that the european union has said for years it wants to meet, rich countries need to reduce their emissions by 40 percent. the european union must therefore strengthen its own target if we are to achieve the two degrees objective. our climate calls for it. but the european union also holds the key to getting the united states on board. as long as the european union does not clearly indicate how much money it wants to make available to developing countries, the united states can hide behind it. so come up with a clear offer of 30 billion for developing countries, and all the pressure will be on the united states to come up with its own reduction target. copenhagen can succeed, copenhagen must succeed and the european union still holds the key to that.
i'm going to list a rough list of actions that emit co2 from someone i just ran into on the street yesterday. she lives (remember that!). she took a shower. she drove to work. she bought a bunch of flowers from a greenhouse, wrapped in plastic. she had the laptop on all day. she cooked a very big, delicious steak and she turned the heat up a little bit. how can we, after such a fine day of luxury, insist that an indigenous woman who was driven from her land by deforestation for our luxury, must reduce co2 emissions, when her list only contained: "i'm alive" is what? industrialized countries are responsible for high co2 emissions, and they will have to pay for them and support developing countries. we can't just leave it at a pittance. we must let go of the urge to 'do something if everyone else does something'. the united states and china must be strongly reprimanded. ambition is one thing, but taking responsibility is something that really matters.
i would like to thank minister carlgren and commissioner dimas for their contributions, not only for their content but above all for the tone of their contributions, a positive tone, a tone which reflects the belief in the real achievement of an international agreement, an agreement with international binding standards. president, at least 60 heads of government will be coming to copenhagen. let them not come for nothing. let them realize their great responsibility. let them leap over their own shadow and look beyond short-term economic interests. let them take a big step towards the economy of tomorrow, an economy with minimal use of raw materials. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. minister carlgren, commissioner dimas, you don't let the big players take each other hostage. we no longer have time for the game of who can sit still the longest, that time is behind us. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, officially i could now sum up the parts of our 27-page resolution that are most relevant for the other groups, but i will not. i would like to share the following story with you. on a british airways flight from johannesburg, a well-off, middle-aged white south african lady found herself sitting next to a black man. she called the stewardess over to complain about her seating. ‘what seems to be the problem, madam?’ ‘well, can’t you see?’ she said, ‘i can’t possibly sit next to this disgusting human. find me another seat!’ a few minutes later the stewardess returned. ‘madam, unfortunately, as i suspected, economy class is full. i have spoken to the cabin services director and club is also full. however, we do have one seat in first class.’ before the south african lady had a chance to answer, the stewardess continued, ‘it is quite exceptional to make this kind of upgrade, but given the circumstances the captain felt that it was outrageous that someone should be forced to sit next to such an obnoxious person.’ she then turned to the black man sitting next to the south african lady and said, ‘sir, if you would like to get your things, i have a seat ready for you in first class up at the front.’ the surrounding passengers gave a standing ovation while the black man walked up to first class. now, what has this got to do with us? do we consider others inferior? the white south african lady would shock us all. but that was obviously an extreme example. however, i do think that some of our colleagues in the epp in particular, but also in the council, understand perfectly what i am trying to say here. the other group, my group, firmly believes in a europe which people can understand, trust and believe in. such a europe must be based on human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and, yes, true equality for all. it is high time to tackle all forms of discrimination on all grounds, including on the basis of sexual orientation.
first of all, i welcome the warm words which the council has spoken about cooperation with parliament, but i would rather see the council taking over the recommendations of parliament, because i too, like mr albrecht, find that the council is actually quite deaf and just continues on its own course, and that parliament is working hard to take a position, without this being reflected in the council programme. secondly, the point which has been very well made by my colleague, mr hennis-plasschaert. i would remind parliament, and in particular the two large groups, once again: equality is indivisible. we cannot give a little equality to some groups and not to others. there have been times when the state interfered with the choice of a spouse, and when the state prohibited marriage between people of certain religions, when the state prohibited marriage between people of different races. fortunately, those days are over, and i believe that no member state in the european union should refuse to recognise a marriage legally entered into in another member state, even if it is between two people of the same sex. i would therefore also like to call on the two major groups: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and i am thinking in particular of our friends in the socialist group. this is the 21st century and i think that all european citizens, regardless of race, religion, age or sexual orientation, deserve our protection. it is high time that this was recognised in this parliament.
for the greens/efa group the request by ireland for european money for the unemployed left behind by dell in the closure of the irish branch has raised a number of questions which need to be answered. the fact that a company like dell closes a branch in one country and opens another is, in principle, the result of normal market forces. but the various forms of government support that come into play change this. dell established itself in ireland with government support a number of years ago. now dell is closing its irish doors and opening a branch in poland, again with state support. in the meantime, the irish unemployed left behind by dell are not being paid for by a company social plan, but by the european globalisation adjustment fund. i think that this shows a serious lack of coherence between industrial policy and employment policy. how many jobs have been created with all the public money that ireland, poland and the european union have poured into dell? the question is therefore how the commission and the member states will work together to ensure that their policies are in line. and how can we ensure that the globalisation fund supports the efforts of a company for its employees and does not largely replace them?
first of all, i would like to thank the swedish presidency for its efforts in recent months. the way in which the rubik's cube has been put in order with the appointments of mr van rompuy and mrs ashton is particularly worthy of respect. i am very pleased with these appointments, because mr van rompuy has already said that his personal views are completely irrelevant. this statement shows a wise and sensible insight. i congratulate mr van rompuy on this eurorealist approach and will keep reminding him of it, when necessary and when it is not desirable. unfortunately, i also hear some disapproval, as if the first permanent chairman does not have enough profile. some people apparently wanted to see the emergence of a kind of european superman. i certainly do not share these views and i am also reassured by the first statements made by mr van rompuy. he has indicated that he never wanted to become such a european superman. the european council meeting will be a crucial moment for the european heads of government to set out the details of the copenhagen strategy. the aim is to achieve the best possible result. i wish technical president van rompuy and president reinfeldt every success on this very important subject. i also wish us all a good and, above all, a future-proof result.
mr president, i would like to ask you very kindly to speed up a bit because, if we continue at this pace, we will end up voting in plenary at midnight.
in writing. the ep resolution on an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen is itself a progressive resolution, which blocks the council of ministers' desire to exchange and verify personal data of citizens and which guarantees protection for refugees and migrants. this resolution is a step towards progressive european migration legislation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. paragraphs on tackling illegal migration are multi-interpretable but in my view do not go on the repressive side. i very much regret that the resolution on the anti-discrimination dossier has been weakened.
in writing. the ep resolution on an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen is itself a progressive resolution, which blocks the council of ministers' desire to exchange and verify personal data of citizens and which guarantees protection for refugees and migrants. this resolution is a step towards progressive european migration legislation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. paragraphs on tackling illegal migration are multi-interpretable but in my view do not go on the repressive side. i very much regret that the resolution on the anti-discrimination dossier has been weakened.
mr van rompuy was, of course, absolutely right when he said in 2004: "turkey is not europe and never will be". the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has therefore expressed its objections to turkey's membership. and we, the freedom party of the netherlands, are in full agreement with that. of course, such a principled view cannot be abandoned, even for the sake of a nice job as president of the european council. turkey is now even flouting democracy and freedom of expression by calling my party leader geert wilders, a democratically elected representative of the people, a fascist and a racist. a shameful, wrong comparison! because criticism of islamic ideology must of course always be possible. but here turkey shows its true face. and, mr. rehn, i would like to ask you: what is your reaction to this shameful attitude of turkey? of course, there's only one answer to that, and that's: stop the negotiations with turkey immediately. and let us be honest with the turks. be honest with the turks, as angela merkel has been, as nicolas sarkozy has been and as their great friend herman van rompuy has been. stop negotiations with turkey and other islamic countries. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
well, i did not hear a real question, but of course we agree that there are multiple reasons to say ‘no’ to turkey. i just mentioned a few, but this is another good reason to say ‘no’, so thank you for that.
the european barometer shows that european citizens have a strong opinion on turkish accession. 28% are in favour, 59% are against. these are very clear figures which cannot and must not be ignored by the politicians. if we do, the gap between citizens and politicians will widen even further. turkey is not in europe and is not part of european history, in which christianity, the renaissance, the enlightenment and the democratic nation state have shaped the religious, cultural and political landscape. a privileged partnership combines the best of both worlds. this offers turkey many economic advantages. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. so time to get this straight: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. let that be the enlargement strategy for 2010.
i remember vividly that commissioner rehn said at one of our last meetings that an enlargement commissioner must be an optimist. i must say that i recognize him in that characterization, and as far as i am concerned, it does not flatter him. i believe that realism must win over optimism in politics, including european politics. i am quite surprised that parliament has been carried away by this optimistic attitude. why is it necessary to weaken a clear signal to turkey and bosnia which was present in the first version of the albertini report? what should we compliment turkey for? why do we have to be desperate to find a positive opening sentence for bosnia? does parliament sufficiently realise that it is supposed to represent the peoples of the member states of the european union? we cannot achieve a credible enlargement process supported by the population through information campaigns. we can only achieve this by making a fair and realistic assessment of the extent to which all these countries meet the copenhagen criteria.
firstly, unfortunately we cannot at the moment paint a rosy picture of the political situation in bosnia-herzegovina. the reform process in this country is constantly being paralysed by the political forces there. the two entities cannot develop a shared vision that delays progress. i would like to stress once again the importance of a sustainable constitutional framework, which is necessary to make the country and its institutions function more effectively. i therefore call on the political leaders of both entities to take this as a starting point. i would also like to stress that i am glad that mr madlener's pvv is so warmly supporting the democratization process in turkey. the negotiating process with the european union has made this possible. so i would expect more warm support from the pvv for the negotiating process. finally, i would like to say that the accession process must be a result-oriented process, in which the date of accession is not the decisive factor, but the results achieved. the accession of candidate countries is possible only if they have fulfilled the requirements and can therefore become full members.
mrs svensson has put written questions on violence against women and tabled a motion for a resolution. it states that this is a structural and widespread problem throughout europe, arising from the unequal status of men and women. although the party for freedom cannot support a european approach to this problem, we do want to support these proposals and urge an integrated approach at the level of the individual member states. the freedom party strongly rejects any violence against women. however, in europe there is a lot of violence against muslim women, especially in the home. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of social security for women. the freedom party condemns all violence against women, but would like to emphasize this islamic form of violence. i want to emphasize this again: this is completely unacceptable. that is why my party strongly urges the member states to combat these forms of violence and to initiate specific research into islam-related violence against women.
for the epp group in the more than ten years that i have been a member of this parliament, i have heard big words used here on a regular basis. in the run-up to the rome food summit, commission president barroso is also using big words. he said: "we have collectively failed in the fight against hunger. it is a moral scandal, it is a great stain on our collective conscience". end of quote. and rightly so. but then the result is disappointing. i am disturbed by the feeling that rome was not concerned with the interests of those one billion starving people, but with the political interests of the rich countries. to be specific, i will give a few examples: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of biofuels, and the promotion of biofuels is increasingly recognised as a contributor to high prices and hence to hunger. but there is a taboo against criticizing this policy. i have already pointed out in this house the danger of large-scale investment by third countries in, for example, the continent of africa, in order to secure their own food security. how can countries with millions of people dependent on un food aid export food to third countries at the same time? i don't see any mention of this in the closing statement. rich countries get away with well-intentioned, urgent appeals and further studies of controversial issues. i also read that developing countries are primarily responsible for their own actions. in the light of the failed policies of the world community in the past, i would call this a disgrace. i've been looking back and looking at the closing statements of previous food summits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they all talk of urgency, and there is a constant call to fulfil previously made promises. but should not a repetition of all these calls be a warning to us? in the words of un rapporteur de schutte, "poor people do not eat promises". food security should be a human right, so it is often said. i would prefer to reverse it, madam president. in my bible as a christian, i read the command to feed the hungry, and that is my personal duty and our collective responsibility.
madam president, my colleagues mr bové and mr belder sketched the problem and the political reality, but there is a new trend in farming. rich countries ensure their staple food or their biofuels by buying up land in poor countries – land grabbing or, as it is euphemistically called, ‘farmland acquisition’. it happens in madagascar, for instance. this seems to be too sensitive for world leaders to discuss. europe and its leaders have a moral duty to go against this new form of what i would call colonialism. the declaration of the fao food summit did not touch upon the issue of land grabbing and in that respect really missed out on an opportunity to target hunger in the world. why did you not do that? then there is the common agricultural policy of the eu. we produce a lot of food. europeans have food to eat, but that cap ruins chances for both small-scale farmers and industrial farmers in developing countries, and they lose the chance to earn a decent living. that causes food shortages and brings a need for food imports. when can we see a free and fair european agricultural policy?
commissioner, as the last speaker on the official list, i will try to summarize this debate. i think i can do that with a good dutch proverb that says: "equal monks, equal caps". i apologize for the late-night interpreters, but what we mean by that, despite the fact that we barely have any monks left in the netherlands, is that you have to treat equal situations equally. so the same requirements you're putting on manufacturers here should apply to products that are trying to get into our market. otherwise you'll simply make it impossible for our farmers to compete. this is the case for the identification and registration of bovine animals and for animal disease measures in brazil. but so is american chlorinated chicken and hormone milk. or for cloned animals, and the list of examples is long, commissioner. i have the impression, from what i hear from our colleagues, that this parliament will be taking the new commission to task for this, for the equal treatment of equal cases, and not, as we are doing now, five years later, but actually before the new commission takes its seat. and you mentioned smes, commissioner, and steps have indeed been taken there, i agree with you. for example, the fact that vaccination has been given a greater place in the fight against, fortunately. because in my country too, 285 animals were killed for 26 cases of scd. but, commissioner, the next commission will be reckoned with in terms of the fact that we can also sell the products of these vaccinated animals within the european union. so i look forward to the next commission's action on this point too.
president, on behalf of the party for freedom, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for the court's report on 2008. thanks to that annual report, we know that some 11% of the cohesion fund should never have been spent in 2008. four billion that went under the radar. the council, the commission and, with a few exceptions, this parliament too are silent in a frightening manner. my party is not comfortable with that. i would like to hear from the commission what it intends to do about this. how is the commission going to get that four billion back? for example, is the commission prepared to ask the countries which should never have spent the money to pay it back? and if not, why not? i would also like to know from the european court of auditors whether it also examines all declarations made by members of the european commission, in order to ensure transparency in the commission's expenditure. if so, can the court of auditors forward these statements to parliament? and if not, why not? i would like to see a reaction from the european court of auditors.
a few words about the european commission's expenditure in the context of external relations. according to the court of auditors, more errors were made in this area in 2008 than in 2007. and the mistakes are being made in all areas of foreign policy. i find it offensive that many errors occur in the tendering of projects. the commission is very keen to monitor the tendering procedures in the member states, and i regularly receive complaints from our representatives at municipal and provincial level about complicated and unclear procedures. the fear of being wrong in the eyes of the commission is great. but who is the commission to control our local authorities when it itself repeatedly makes mistakes in the tendering of its own projects? what does the commissioner think of this? the commission is pleased to present itself as the 28th donor. i have my doubts about its effectiveness and i regret that the very good report of the court of auditors does not include detailed data on effectiveness and that this subject is only occasionally dealt with in separate reports. could data on policy effectiveness be added in the future? an example. i read in the report that budgetary aid is not sufficiently controlled to ensure that the conditions for payment are met. in other words: the commission is giving a bag of money to countries without adequate control. but what conditions does the commission actually impose? and to what extent does it measure whether budget support actually helps the development of countries? i do not read anything about that in this report, and i cannot read anything about that in the report because of the way it is designed. more generally: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the development of the community, but that it should be involved in the development of the community. it is clear that the commission has not followed the recommendations of the court of auditors very closely, and i would therefore ask the president of the court of auditors whether he is not discouraged by the fact that he has to see year after year that the commission is failing to get its affairs in order in this area.
the european court of auditors finds many errors in the structural funds, rural development and the research programme for the financial year 2008. too many and too complicated subsidies are the result. the european court of auditors rightly stresses the importance of simplifying the rules. in october, bodies from four member states issued a position on reducing the eu regulatory pressure on the president of the european commission. they recommend the establishment of an external, independent commission to reduce regulatory pressure at eu level. in the context of the better regulation strategy, this is a step in the right direction. what is the position of the european commission in this matter? however, the pursuit of better financial management must not be limited to simplifying the rules. the same is true of the need to strengthen supervision and control. to this end, the european commission and the member states should draw up an action plan. so first of all national management declarations, which must then be followed by a positive declaration of assurance from the european side. does the european court of auditors consider such an action plan to be a useful tool for improving financial management? i think that such an action plan will help to give financial management the political priority it so needs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
i would like to thank the court of auditors for the very clear annual report it has produced and i would also like to thank commissioner kallas in particular for his efforts over the past few years. i think he can rightly say that he has made a lot of progress in the last few years. i would like to highlight three elements of this annual report: the first is that the main problems still lie with the member states. many of you have already mentioned the example of regional policy, and i can only emphasize that. i would therefore also ask the commission, with regard to the national declarations of member states which exist in some member states: can you not come up with a concrete proposal to make it compulsory for all the member states of the european union? the second element i would like to stress is the volume and complexity of european regulation. that has been brought up by many colleagues. can we not start a fundamental debate on how we want to spend our money and the rules underlying it? i think that it is now based too much on mistrust and too little on trust, and that in the end it only leads to more irregularities. finally, mr president, the agricultural sector. of course, it is wonderful that for the first time the entire agricultural sector is given a green light. but let us not beat ourselves up too hard. it is rural development that is the big problem, and let that be the policy area within agriculture where we see major expansion in the coming years. and then it is not just a question of legality, but also of efficiency, because with regard to agricultural funds we are achieving the objectives in the field of nature and the environment to a much lesser extent.
mr. chairman, have you seen the movie groundhog day, about the man who lives the same day over and over again? now, i am only in my third year as a member of the european parliament, but i already feel like the main character in that film. every year the court of auditors comes here to tell us that it cannot give a declaration of assurance. and every year the european commission does its utmost to highlight the bright spots. admittedly, there has been progress, for example in agriculture. but the underlying problems remain. and then, of course, as the european commission proposes, you can increase the margin of error. but there's something about moving the goalposts. if you don't get your players to score, you're not going to make the goal bigger as a coach, but you're going to make the game better. it takes teamwork. we can only get a positive statement here by working together as a team, between the european and national auditors and with those national management declarations, as has already been said. unfortunately, some people find european money a little easier to handle than their own national money. it's easier to go shopping with someone else's credit card than with your own. but you will be presented with the bill, commissioner. if you and your successor fail to get the audit completed, that will not only be bad for budgetary control in the european union and for you as the european commission, but for the legitimacy of all of us and of our work. so you can be sure, commissioner, that we as a parliament will be watching you and your successor very closely in this respect.
the 2008 report is once again a source of keen analysis and action, including by the european parliament, which thanks the report. this approach, this cooperation, has led to demonstrable improvements in recent years. however, as the epp coordinator, i would like to make a few comments on regional policy in particular. is it true that the margin of error of 11% in regional policy is based on those three member states, and how does that compare with your extrapolation? is it true that most of the shortcomings have been in the tendering procedures? is it true that the report has not yet been able to reflect the improvements in expenditure under the new current regulation 2007-2013? you know, that's improved a lot in the last year. and if that is the case, then, in view of those changes, those improvements in the legislation in force, we can continue to work in that ascending line of improvements in the period up to 2013. it is also important that these improvements in the transposition of european legislation be transposed much more explicitly into the procurement rules, that the enforcement and enforcement of these rules be improved, particularly in the member states. the relationship between european and national is most certainly tenuous here. we must indeed name countries. then that 11% percentage can go from unacceptable red to yellow and finally to green. that is why the citizens have elected us, for greater clarity and clarity in this area. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the freedom party voted against the motion for a resolution on somalia. let me explain why. the freedom party believes that the guarding of the ships off the coast of somalia is not an eu task, but one hundred percent a nato task. europe has no army and has no business being in it. this is a 100% nato mission. the freedom party also believes that merchant ships should have seamen on board to resist direct pirate attacks. so again, piracy in the somalian sea must stop, but not in this way.
author. − mr president, i am very thankful for the support in this house for the delegation of liberal international which i led to managua. we came in peace on the invitation of a parliamentary majority to speak about the constitution, the election, the election campaign and human rights and civil liberties. we were cursed, we were called pirates and that kind of thing. we were threatened with expulsion from the country, threatened with being persona non grata, and it was said that we were staging a golpe – a coup d’état. but, more importantly than that, they cursed my country and they oppress their own people. i think that the european union should monitor what happens in nicaragua and should send observers to the elections in 2011 and support the democratic opposition. i also hope that we will do the same and will be objective regarding the result of the election in honduras. let us see whether the elections on sunday are free and fair, and let us make a decision then. it could be that, if we recognise the result of the elections, it will put an end to the constitutional crisis in that country.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group is of the opinion that laos and vietnam are no democracies. human rights are not guaranteed in either country, nor are religious or other rights. it means that we wholeheartedly support this resolution and ask the council and the commission to act likewise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we, as liberals, are against the death penalty in general, but here the death penalty in china is used to oppress minorities, like the tibetans, the uighurs and others. furthermore, china is not a democracy. human rights are not respected. china has a harsh policy against taiwan. china should be put under pressure. this is difficult, i know. it is an enormous market, but we should fight for our principles. therefore we support this resolution.
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in the debate on the future of the european union. in a time of economic crisis with a continued poor outlook for 2010, the successful completion of the doha round is the highest political priority. the estimates of the substantial revenues in terms of trade turnover and prosperity increase give me hope that the geneva promises to make 2010 a breakthrough year for the doha round will indeed come true. commission, as a dutchman i am very interested to hear your views on two proposals by my government at the wto summit. what is your view of the formation of a so-called green group within the wto of countries which want to get rid of trade tariffs on sustainable products in order to promote the use of these products? and commission, do you share the view of the dutch representative that the wto negotiating system has not sufficiently kept pace with globalisation? are you working on a solution?
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the globalisation fund, a very special, tailor-made instrument, is a european instrument that we are putting into practice. the mass layoffs of more than 700 permanent employees at heijmans construction - and we are not even looking at the numbers abroad, for example in belgium and the united kingdom - call for targeted action. the construction sector is important in the brabant region, where i come from, and the consequences of this kind of mass redundancy are clearly felt in the region and far beyond. europe's action is rightly directed towards preserving expertise and craftsmanship. the crisis is now putting people on the streets, whereas we know from experience that there is a great shortage of skilled workers, particularly in the construction sector. it is therefore good that heijmans has chosen to use a mobility centre as an instrument to preserve expertise and, if possible, jobs. both the dutch ministries and the regional authorities, for example in the province of brabant, are now working to make investments in projects, infrastructure and construction very targeted and accelerated. in this way we try to show the people who come to the streets that we are actively involved in their thinking and that we are also investing money in this. i would also like to point out, in the spirit of copenhagen this week, that we are in dire need of energy supplies and energy measures in buildings and in transport. we have adjusted the rules in parliament in other areas, and i would like to mention the regional funds, which are being paid out in an accelerated manner and are being advanced in an accelerated manner. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. a company like heijmans, always focused on continuity and quality, will also benefit from this. it is in this spirit that we wholeheartedly support these three proposals, but in particular the heijmans proposal.
i would like to say that we are in favour of the use of the globalisation fund for these three applications. the applications meet the criteria and therefore the redundant workers are entitled to support from this fund. i would like to take this opportunity to point out a major shortcoming in the globalisation fund. we are now in the process of coming to a common vision of the future of the european economy and the labour market. the various political currents in this parliament may not agree on exactly how that should be done or how far we want to go, but we are quite agreed on the broad lines. it needs to be more sustainable and it needs to be more inclusive. if we are to achieve these goals, we must seize the opportunities now. we need to take steps now to tackle the crisis that will bring us closer to that sustainable economy. the current use of the globalisation fund leaves opportunities open to me. it is a pity that the fund, as one of our instruments for dealing with the crisis, does not provide direction. we must have the courage to make real choices. if we ensure that people who are losing their jobs in polluting industries such as the car industry are not stuck in the past but are being retrained for jobs in sustainable sectors for the future, then we are clearly showing the direction we want to go. and that's how we bring that innovative, inclusive and sustainable economy a little bit closer.
the adoption of the 2010 budget takes place against the backdrop of the economic crisis. the budgetary resources of the european union must be allocated with particular care. in this context, the council is forcing the european parliament to set priorities. the struggling economy and investment in sustainability are rightly high on the agenda. the rapporteur, mr surján, has shown that his approach is consistent with the priorities of economic growth and employment. these priorities are reflected in the shifts between the headings of the multiannual financial framework. it is also reflected in the financing of the european economic recovery plan. it is rightly investing heavily in new technology. this includes support for projects involving renewable energy sources and improvements in energy network links with third countries. to this end, we are contributing to the much-needed diversification of energy suppliers. this priority has been achieved. i do have a footnote here. we should have been a little more strict. if the european union is to operate in a credible way, it must not increase its own role in combating the crisis, but must confine itself to its core tasks. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. however, the yearly demand for more money to be spent is counterproductive. the flexibility instrument should not be required to provide the missing funds. on the other hand, stronger prioritisation ensures that we are a constructive partner for the council of ministers, especially at a time of economic crisis when member states are running short and have to cut back drastically. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr surján, for this step in the right direction, with an emphasis on economic recovery, without losing sight of the social aspects of eu policies such as childcare, especially in bulgaria.
mr president, we are discussing the last budget under the treaty of nice and next year will be a very different one. next year parliament will for the first time be able to take a stand on, for example, agricultural policy, but also on fisheries spending. this half of the budget will then finally be within the reach of parliament and i can tell you i look forward to it. but anyway, we are talking about the 2010 budget. a few brief remarks. it is good that more money is going to energy and research and also to the dismantling of the bulgarian nuclear power station at kozloduy, but my problem is with the main lines of the european budget. are the european contributions really preparing our economy for the future? - no, please! let's not fool ourselves! let us use the forthcoming budget review of the financial perspective to set our sights on the future. i therefore call on the council and the commission to take this review seriously and not to treat it as a joke. the current budget is still investing too much in yesterday's economy, too much old support for agriculture, too much old support for regions and far too little in sustainability and innovation, which is what it's really about. we are at a turning point. are we making europe an open-air museum where americans, chinese, indians can see beautiful culture and eat good food or are we making europe a dynamic, prosperous region, one that the rest of the world looks on with envy? in other words, do we choose stagnation or progress? my answer may be clear. let us also look at the financing of the european union. we will have to go to a system of own resources anyway. the commission is going to make a proposal to that effect at the request of us liberals. i'm looking forward to it. the current system is not giving the union enough leverage and has the perverse effect of making member states more interested in how much they can get back rather than whether the european contribution is actually having an effect. i believe, moreover, that we must do much more to stop the loss of biodiversity in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the expectations for europe 2020 are high in our group, but also in the european citizen who expects prosperity and jobs and a sustainable and innovative social market economy in 2020. concrete proposals for a strong sme and an open european internal market, including in the area of capital and knowledge development. a 2020 strategy with a strong and transparent european governance structure. no freedom of movement for the member states. the european parliament, mr president, wants to be informed not only of the commission's and the council's proposals, but to participate effectively in the creation and implementation of the 2020 strategy. how will you provide for this and what time path will you pursue? the president of the council announced in march that he would draw conclusions. do you take the initiative? can we expect a concrete framework with principles and objectives on the basis of which this parliament can participate in that discussion? can you inform us of the time path you're pursuing and who's responsible? are you mr. 2020?
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the middle east, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in the debate on the middle east. it is important, however, that all parties continue to work for peace. at the same time, that could be the problem. can and will all parties work for peace? israel has taken steps in the past to trade land for peace. i am thinking of the evacuation of parts of the gaza strip. unfortunately, that did not lead to peace. in fact, rocket fire increased and israel invaded the gaza strip in 2009. now israel has announced a temporary construction halt for the west bank. a series of roadblocks have also been lifted. this as a gesture to bring about peace talks. these steps by the netanyahu government are already quite far-reaching in israeli terms. i don't see much movement on the palestinian side. they keep saying that what israel is doing is nothing. i miss the palestinian gesture to negotiate. is it the palestinian will and ability to negotiate differently? hamas seems to be caught in the crossfire with fatah and chained to iran. mahmoud abbas looks like a paper tiger with barely any influence left. i think it is time that the palestinians too made it clear that they want peace.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, have they gone mad in europe? this rhetorical question was put by the americans at the beginning of december. the sharp criticism from congress was the unilateral designation of east jerusalem as the capital of the envisaged palestinian state in a circulating draft council resolution. as chairman of the ep delegation for relations with israel, i had hoped and wished for a more constructive start to our transatlantic dialogue. and, i hasten to add, close acquaintance with the draft and final council declaration touches me, as well as my colleagues in congress, deeply. i am particularly opposed to the partition of jerusalem. the council statement on the middle east is a serious diplomatic and political setback for the peace process. i am therefore very disappointed in the foreign ministers who have let themselves be dragged along by the swedish presidency, given its strained relationship with the jewish state. mr president, i have a number of fundamental reservations about the council statement. it is certainly not encouraging the palestinian authority to resume negotiations with israel. in addition, it is contrary to the quartet's principle of 'no third parties should intervene in bilateral negotiations', a principle of 9 november 2008. the official american response to the council statement of 8 december reiterated this principle. is there then only resignation to the impasse of the peace process? no, not at all! recent working visits to israel have certainly convinced me of the need and possibility of a gradual, solid process of rapprochement between the state of israel and the palestinian authority. the gradual transfer of authority in the west bank, such as area c, closer economic cooperation, while strengthening and consolidating reliable palestinian institutions, will really help the peace process. i therefore call on the council and the commission to refrain from making counterproductive statements about the peace process and to invest instead in concrete cooperation projects between israelis and palestinians. that is a european formula, isn't it?
- a writer. the eu is committed to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, the eu is less principled in its fight against terrorism. take the united nations blacklists, individuals or entities suspected of having ties to osama bin laden, the al qaeda network or the taliban, can be placed on these blacklists with the result of a travel ban and the freezing of their financial assets. it is a good measure when it comes to terrorism, because terrorism must be fought, there is no question about it. but the lawlessness with which terrorists operate must not creep into the way we fight terrorism. the current system is unfortunately characterized by violations of fundamental rights. without the intervention of a judicial authority, persons are placed on the list, often without being fully informed about it. the information on which blacklisting is based is regularly sourced from intelligence services. this information is not readily available to the suspect, who consequently does not know why he is on the list. this is not only a denial of the right to information, but also of the right to a defence. once on the list, it's extremely difficult to get off. there are already enough cases where people have been wrongly listed for years and had to fight for a proper trial. they are condemned to poverty, simply cannot afford to go shopping, and are not allowed to leave their country. i am not advocating today more rights for terror suspects, but only that they, like everyone else, can claim their rights. i am in favour of transparent procedures and a proper trial for everyone. the side effects of the lists are also far-reaching. since governments can decide to put persons or organisations on the list, this can also be used as a political tool. for example, ngos that fight for human rights and are a thorn in the side of the government can be designated as terrorist organizations in order to stop their work. a ruling by the european court of justice has forced the commission to revise its current procedures. the commission has given a good start, but the council has then let it go. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has created a new situation. if it becomes article 215 or article 75 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in other words, the european parliament will not be involved at all in the treatment of the proposals or will be involved in the normal procedure, namely the codecision procedure. the legal affairs committee, as well as parliament's legal service, have indicated article 75 as the correct legal basis. i would like to hear from both the council and the commission today how they see the progress of these proposals for restrictive measures. what role is envisaged for parliament in this? it is time for transparent and democratic procedures. the question is, will you cooperate?
mr president, what document are you looking for? what's the document number? these are just a few of the reactions that you can expect as a citizen when you put a question to the european institutions. but citizens want information, not promotional stories or unreadable policy papers. the rudder must be turned around. the citizen must be the centre of attention. that is the starting point of the questions from the rapporteur, mr cashman, whom i would like to thank for the excellent - and i am only saying this to mrs sommer, who has unfortunately already left the chamber - extremely transparent cooperation in recent months. i would like to see part of the european information budget used to ensure that citizens are given real and complete information and answers to their questions, both through digital information media and through human contact, such as 'can you tell me exactly how european decision-making on european engagement went at the copenhagen climate summit?' the citizens want to know this, and i therefore call on the commission, the council and in particular the members of the european parliament to support our initiatives to increase transparency. that seems to be the only really clear message.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the somewhat misleading title of today’s debate includes the word ‘subsidiarity’. subsidiarity, as i understand it, means taking decisions at the level closest to the citizen, and that level is the citizen – the individual citizen. what you are saying in your resolutions is that the rights of a national state are above the rights of individual citizens. it is our job in this house to protect the rights of citizens, not the rights of states. secondly, if we consider – as you claim – that this is not a matter for the european union, i would like to understand why these matters are included in the copenhagen criteria, and why we demand from candidate countries that they respect the separation of church and state when we cannot demand that of our own member states. thirdly, colleagues, if you say that the european parliament is not competent to talk about these matters, i wonder why we are competent to discuss matters like the shape of cucumbers but not the fundamental rights of our citizens. as to the european convention on human rights and the court ruling, we are now two weeks after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which requires that the eu accede to the convention of human rights. would it not be incomprehensible if we at the same time refused to accept the authority of the court of strasbourg? we cannot explain that to our citizens. secondly, i think – and this has been said by mr lópez before – politicians have no business interfering in court rulings. let the judges do their jobs. we may have an opinion – we may like the ruling or we may not like it – but we should not interfere in their work. my group, the alde group – the european liberals – is the champion of a europe that is for all citizens. alde believes in a europe of diversity, where everybody has the right to their own conscience, their own religion and even the freedom from religion. i will now conclude. the states – not the courts, the states – must ensure an environment where all citizens can live freely, according to their own conscience. they should be protected by the state, and i think the situation is very serious if they feel the need to go to court in order to defend themselves from the states. colleagues, reject the epp and ecr resolutions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that the swedish weak and cowardly presidency is over. your weak swedish presidency is happily over, because what you have brought to sweden is not yet a good thing. turkey is not being attacked hard and cyprus is being illegally occupied. israel is being invaded by sweden. the swedish proposal to split jerusalem shows the naive attitude of sweden in opposition to the truly barbaric ideology that islam is. sweden had a stronger chance of holding european referendums in all countries, as in switzerland over the minaret ban. that is what the european citizens want. the circus between brussels and strasbourg is not even geagendeerd, mijnheer reinfeldt. we have asked you that, but apparently you dared not ask. i'm afraid for france. the european union is not a party to the copenhagen climate change agreement, but it is not a party to the agreement. mr president, the netherlands paid a lot of money. the netherlands pays net per capita income two to three times as much as other rich countries. this mischief must be stopped as soon as possible. we hope that the next presidency will be more lively.
president, mr reinfeldt, there is one serious blemish on your presidency and that is the decision-making on swift. on 1 december the lisbon treaty came into force and on 30 november you and your fellow prime ministers rushed through a scheme that gives our bank details to the us. if that is a sign of the way the stockholm programme is going to be developed - a programme which is supposed to guarantee our civil rights, our security, our freedom - then i have the impression that its interpretation is very late in coming and that freedom and civil rights are under pressure here. it's a stain on your presidency. i also think it is a stain on the beginning of the treaty of lisbon which would give the european parliament more rights and i would like to hear from you that in the future you will show more respect for civil rights, for citizens and for parliament.
mr president, at the beginning of this year, on wednesday 14 january to be precise, i also had the privilege of participating in a debate in this house - and mrs ferrero-waldner, the commissioner, was also present - on belarus, and it is only logical that at the end of this parliamentary year you should look at whether there have been any substantial changes in the european union's relationship with belarus. well, in my view, the year 2009 is characterised by the status quo between minsk and brussels. what conclusions should the european institutions draw from this? first of all, there is the danger that the belarusian regime of president lukashenko will simply continue to balance between moscow and brussels or between simulated integration with russia and simulated rapprochement with the european union. the economic affectivity of europe is countered by the desire and will to consolidate power of the belarusian political elite. the recent changes of position within the political summit in minsk indicate a tougher course. mr president, with a balanced strategy the european union must seize the opportunity of a gradual change of mentality at the level of the population and the elites. this is an opportunity arising from the dialogue and cooperation structures that have been established in the meantime, combined with the global economic crisis that is also calling for action by the lukashenka administration. in short, all the european institutions will have to address all the belarusian target groups. the state institutions, the opposition forces, civil society, and indeed the passive civilian population. it is clear that the european parliament is seeking substantive contacts with the belarusian parliament.
i have just listened to the contribution of mr mölzer, who is now absent, and he says: it's so hopeless, let's just give up and focus on our own neighbors. i must say that if you really look at the situation, you would almost throw in the towel. but then i think of the group of women who were here last month, to which mrs durant also referred, and i think we can look those people in the eye and say, we give up, or we don't make it a priority, or, oh, we just pass a resolution again and we've done our duty. i think about those women and i think about their despair and their bitterness and their feeling that they've been abandoned and then i find it very, very difficult to debate that way. there are many good things in the resolution and i hope that we will really strengthen them with action, but i would like to stress one aspect. we talk a lot about rape, sexual violence, and those are actually terms that almost don't cover the load anymore when you look at what reality is; the women we have spoken to say that it goes far beyond an attack on an individual person. it's not individual violence, it's an attack on the community, designed to tear apart the fabric of the community. so i think that we really need to act now, not just to end impunity and not just to butter the fish and provide the resources for the actions that we have announced, but we also need to show that we are reaching out and that we are in solidarity with the people there and that we are not abandoning them, that we are taking our moral responsibility.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to one aspect of this debate. there seems to be a great shortage of specialised occupations, with the result that there has been a trade in these qualifications and a trade-off with the real training. this can be a major hazard, both in the security sector and in large plants, chemical plants, oil refineries, etc.; national controls appear to be insufficient. i would like to ask the commissioner three questions: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of this, whether the european commission can report on it and what we can do about it. this is a very strange phenomenon and i think we should put an end to it.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. of course, the european parliament wants a mid-term financial review. cohesion policy and the use of the funds now and in the period afterwards until 2020 will be central to this. but, mr president, we note with great surprise that there was no substantive assessment in the so-called non-paper in preparation for the mid-term review. i am the first epp spokesman to say clearly that the new commission will have to come to the european parliament with a substantive assessment and not with a criticism of regional policy. the eu 2020 vision paper of commission president barroso is a vision paper for growth and the knowledge economy, equipment and training, competition and the green economy. the present and future regional policy in europe is the integration framework for achieving this objective. look at the energy transition, the climate change, the lisbon strategy, essential elements in regions and cities. as regards the epp, we will focus cohesion policy more on the key points of the eu 2020 strategy, while maintaining solidarity between all the regions and maintaining objective 2, on which the commissioner was equally vague. promoting competition in the rich regions is part of the overall assessment; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are now seeing in this time of crisis how important the regional funds are for recovery. they are spent expeditiously and fully utilized. in 2009, in my region, the region of south holland, almost 100% was used for innovation and new objectives. i myself will report on the synergy between regional funds and research and development in early 2010. finally, commissioner, you say that you will not be presenting a white paper on territorial cohesion; but it is parliament which will be taking part in the codecision procedure and will ensure that certain things are laid down in the new regulations.
author. − mr president, last september a member of the ugandan parliament introduced an ‘anti-homosexuality bill’. this bill would criminalise homosexuality, leading to punishment by imprisonment and even the death penalty. this would not only apply to these alleged criminals but also to those who failed to report these so-called crimes, or who support human rights and other work in uganda. our concern is that this would violate freedom of sexual orientation as well as freedom of expression, which are human rights: they are not just european values but universal values. we also reject the death penalty as a whole and want to join the international community in its concern for ngos which may have to cancel their activities working in uganda. we therefore join president obama and others in the international community who have called for this bill not to be approved and for the review of any laws that would criminalise homosexuality in uganda.
author. − mr president, azerbaijan is signatory to a number of partnerships with the eu. it is active in the neighbourhood policy as well as in the eastern partnership. this does not only relate to trade; azerbaijan has also signed up to respect democracy, human rights and the rule of law. however, currently these are all under serious threat with the present regime. today we highlight the case of emin milli and adnan hajizade, which represents a crackdown on free media, free expression and civil society that is much deeper and wider than the case of merely two bloggers, as they have been called. they did indeed use new media like facebook and twitter for their youth organisation’s work, but the fact is that we do not even know why they are imprisoned as evidence to defend their case has not been admitted in the trial, and the trial did not meet international standards – and, indeed, looks fabricated. if we cannot rely on the azerbaijani government to stay true to its commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of the law through the various agreements it has itself signed with the eu, then europe cannot consider azerbaijan to be a credible partner at all; this is also true of trade relations. this resolution urges the azerbaijani government to adhere to its own promises and to start building its legitimacy in the international community by respecting its own citizens, granting them democratic and human rights and allowing for respect of the rule of law. yesterday we awarded the sakharov prize in this house of the european people, and we saw a very impressive speech by the laureate, mr kovalev, who said that fear can only be met by freedom of thought, and freedom of thought can only be expressed when freedom of expression is actually guaranteed and when we listen to those people who are simply addressing issues such as opposition to their government, which we, as europeans, have to guarantee in partnership with azerbaijan in all areas.
