mr president, we are on the verge of an agreement under which russian gas will be supplied to a number of eu member states which are deprived of it. the solidarity of the member states of the union is worth highlighting, although it has not been an integral part of our society from the outset. the different countries had very different opinions on this issue, and fortunately, in the end, we tried to come together. but i wanted to stress - and i know we are debating this in two days' time - that this case shows firstly that russia treats purely economic matters as an absolutely political instrument and secondly that this case shows that we really need to have a common energy policy as the european union, and not the energy policy of the individual largest countries, which are building gas pipelines under the baltic sea, for example, on their own.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to call on the council to take the necessary measures to combat discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin in lithuania, in accordance with article 13 of the treaty establishing the european community. after the recent parliamentary elections in lithuania, in which three politicians from the polish minority became mps, the lithuanian authorities want to deprive two of them of their parliamentary mandates. the reason given is that they have a polish charter a document that confirms belonging to the polish nation and serves to foster culture and national identity among people of polish origin around the world. the lithuanian authorities argue that this is an obligation to a foreign state. this is an obvious absurdity and scandal, as well as discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin, as well as violation of the rights of national minorities unworthy of a member of the european union. i hope the lithuanian authorities come to their senses!
the european union, as an organisation of countries united by common values, should prevent the spread of hatred by all possible means. meanwhile, french operator eutelsat has decided to broadcast a program from hamas-affiliated al-aksa tv that openly calls for attacks on israeli civilians. eutelsat has thus once again demonstrated that business ethics is a term for outsiders in charge of the company's management, especially in the context of the months-long blocking of the broadcasting capacity of the independent chinese television station ntd tv. despite appeals from many quarters, eutelsat's management still refuses to reverse its decision, which was made under pressure from the chinese government. the surprising and completely amoral choices made by the eutelsat board of directors call into question the business intentions of its authorities.
madam president! the european parliament has repeatedly addressed environmental issues. so i want to highlight a problem that i've been approached by a group of environmentally conscious schoolchildren. the prices of scrap metal, paper and plastic bottles are falling sharply. collecting these raw materials becomes unprofitable. in addition, many cities have withdrawn from segregation containers and have stopped emptying them. the problem of waste disposal has been particularly acute recently. the current situation in poland in this respect can be summarised as follows: those who buy waste paper argue that it is too cheap and not worth dealing with, and those who produce paper using waste paper argue that it is too expensive for them and at current paper prices they cannot afford to invest in waste paper processing equipment. so i'm calling for pro-environmental action to solve this problem. because today, kids collect waste because it's educational, and then they dump it in the communal landfill.
madam president! pesticides are dangerous to animals and the environment. i would like to remind you that in many countries old pesticides are stored in conditions that are dangerous for the environment and for people. the problem cannot be solved in poor countries without the help of the european union. sustainable use of pesticides is an important issue. in this respect, information and training of users and assistance by agrotechnical services are of great importance. some experts feel that the amount of pesticides needed is far in excess of what is needed. this is particularly the case for small users who, in many cases, lack the appropriate agrotechnical knowledge. the way pesticides are placed on the market, the scientific work carried out in this area and any activities that allow pesticides to be more effective with less impact on health and the environment are also important. i would like to thank mrs klaß and mrs breyer for their reports, but i would also point out that these directives have a profound meaning if they are successfully implemented in agricultural practice. the uen supports the directive.
madam president! in the debate on the reports on the sustainable use of pesticides and the marketing of plant protection products, i would like to draw attention to three points. first, the regulations in question concern only the two stages of the use of chemicals, namely the placing on the market and their use, while the third stage, namely their withdrawal from the market or disposal, is still awaiting regulation. in my country, poland, it is the disposal of plant protection products that requires not so much additional legislation but rather significant financial support so that local authorities with landfills of such substances can dispose of them. secondly, it is good that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is ultimately up to the individual member states to decide whether to approve, restrict or refuse the use of a chemical on their market. finally, thirdly, i would hope that the solutions adopted by parliament will create a level playing field for all farmers in the european union in the use of plant protection products and will also reduce to a minimum illegal practices in the trade and use of these products.
madam president! we are finalising the next steps in the eu's healthcare reform. i believe that we are making good compromises here to ensure that the restrictions introduced are in favour of health protection and do not jeopardise the development of european agriculture. but let us remember that all these changes to safety in agriculture have a significant cost for our farmers, who must compete effectively on world markets. they're the ones who'll pay more for safer pesticides. i will repeat what i have said many times in this chamber: let us impose high standards on our farmers and food producers, but let us apply the same standards to food importers from outside the union. otherwise, any attempt to raise standards will backfire.
madam president! i would like to start by congratulating the members on their excellent reports. because of time constraints, i will only refer to the report by mrs klaβ and highlight some of the shortcomings of the proposed directive. the directive establishes a system of training and certification for distributors and professional users of pesticides. however, the proposed solutions should provide for the possibility of mutual recognition of certificates of completion of pesticide training by member states. the directive also maintains the regulation of the system of technical inspection and maintenance of pesticide application equipment on the basis of national law. i think that it would be appropriate to regulate this matter at community level. the basis of such controls on international standards would provide a basis for mutual recognition of their results by the member states. this is very important when using fields located in neighbouring countries or when carrying out plant protection services. the last very important point i would like to make is that the specific nature of forest protection is not taken into account. it's impossible to maintain these forests without aerial spraying.
for the first time, the european commission, the council and the parliament have worked so extensively and thoroughly on the difficult rules of food quality and safety. the three-year effort concludes with a vote in parliament tomorrow. our job is to make sure that the rules are clear, safe, knowledge-based, especially when they affect a sensitive area like food production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides. we say that knowledge-based regulations will build consumer confidence in the science-based use of pesticides. the compromise reached serves to improve the health of the population, but it raises production costs, which we should bear in mind when we discuss the financial resources for the common agricultural policy. we also ask: do imported foodstuffs comply with these strict rules in the union? i ask for your support for amendments 179, 180 and 181, which we have tabled with other members.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. it is clear that urban transport is of great importance for both economic development and environmental protection. there's no doubt about it and it shouldn't be discussed at all. the european parliament's work on the green paper has, however, raised a different type of problem, one which has already been mentioned, namely the division of powers between local, national and european authorities. there were doubts whether the european union should deal with local issues or leave it to national and local authorities. i would like to point out that during these debates the question was also raised as to whether this green paper leads to actions which are intended to help cities in some way or whether it leads to actions which are intended to oblige cities to take certain actions. we agreed that it should be a relationship of support or help. the question that arises today in the light of the delay is what was the purpose of the european commission in presenting the green paper? what was her long-term plan? did she really want to take very dynamic action, or was she just trying to sound out the public opinion on the matter? it seems that after the initial very sceptical reaction, the commission has slowed down the process of further work and is still wondering what to do with the action it has started. it's time to make some decisions.
member of the commission. − madam president, i really appreciate your contributions. i shall certainly convey all your concerns to vice-president tajani, who, i know, remains committed. the action plan is, in fact, included in the commission’s work programme for 2009, and i know that vice-president tajani is personally committed to progressing with the action plan. therefore, i have no doubt that what you have said will be seriously taken into account by him. i know that the impact assessment has been completed and, as i said, the action plan is in the legislative programme and hopefully will proceed this year.
in writing. in the 2007 green paper, the commission draws attention to the validity of the debate on the need for its involvement in the problem of increasing mobility in eu cities, based on the principle of subsidiarity. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the union shall act within its competences only when it is necessary and when it adds value to the action of the member states. the purpose of the subsidiarity principle is to ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizen by continuously checking whether action to be taken at community level is justified in the light of the possibilities that exist at national, regional or local level. the lisbon treaty, which is in the process of ratification, further strengthens the role of the member states in determining whether the eu institutions should also be involved at local level. the package of measures to be taken to increase mobility in urban areas discussed often treats innovative technologies and intelligent transport systems separately. these two areas should be synergistically integrated to achieve the effect of increasing street capacity, improving travel comfort and traffic conditions, reducing travel time and energy consumption, reducing emissions, reducing the costs of road fleet management and maintenance and renewal, and ultimately improving road safety. in view of the above, the commission's action plan on urban mobility will be underpinned by the completion of the ratification of the lisbon treaty and the implementation of the czech presidency's programme, which prioritises strengthening the functionality of the eu's internal transport market.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we're changing the subject: we're going to talk about the connections between the institutions of the european union and its citizens, the connections that are broken, the connections that have a big gap between them. and jean monnet said in the past: 'we are not creating a union for states and governments, we are creating it for citizens'. the european union is expanding, citizens are coming, and the european institutions, the institutions of the european union, have a problem with contacting citizens. this has been demonstrated by the painful experience of the french and dutch rejection of the european constitution and the irish rejection of the treaty of lisbon. it is true that the eu institutions are trying to improve contact with citizens, they are opening up to them, they are clearly recognising the role of civil society. the range of eu communication policies in this area is growing, and has even been given the special name of citizens' dialogue, but this is not enough. and that is why the european parliament is taking up this challenge, trying to create this kind of mechanism and to propose this kind of contacts between the institutions of the european union and its citizens, which will eliminate the lack of democracy, will show that citizens also play an important role in the decision-making process within the european union. article 10 of the lisbon treaty states: 'every citizen has the right to participate in the democratic life of the union. decisions are taken as openly and as closely as possible to the citizen. this is accompanied by an additional provision which also refers to the legislative initiative of one million citizens of the european union, who, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, will be able to approach the european commission and urge it to prepare a legislative proposal on a matter of importance to citizens. that is why i am talking about civil dialogue in this report, a dialogue which is not defined by law, but a dialogue which is necessary and which i would like to see guided or guided by the following principles: firstly, i have introduced the principle of the representativeness of civil society in this report. i would like to see civil society well represented at eu level, well represented by partners who properly and appropriately reflect and represent the interests. i want the citizens' dialogue to be reciprocal, bilateral - that is, not just the european union speaking to the citizen and the citizen of the union responding, but the eu institutions informing the citizen when that voice has been taken into account and what the consequences of the citizen's opinions have been. this is why we need feedback from the union to the citizens. i want the citizens' dialogue to be based on the principle of transparency, that we follow clear rules when inviting representatives of society to the dialogue, that we have a systematic publication of the lists of organisations that have joined the consultation. it would be good if the union had a person in charge of this aspect, namely dialogue. the rules for civil dialogue are difficult to define, and i therefore expect that the european commission, which has already prepared specific rules for a strengthened culture of consultation and dialogue (i.e. in 2002), will want to prepare such rules which will become common to all the institutions. and i just want to point out that member states should also be obliged to promote civil dialogue. i want everything that is in this report, and that i have not had time to say, to be tested in the first possible situation, namely the european parliament elections, in the election campaign, and that we take this first step in contacting european citizens, communicating what the union has best to offer them and taking from them the lessons that we should include here.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, ms grabowska, as well as the committee on constitutional affairs for their excellent report. we agree that civil society plays an important role in european integration. it is one of the key tools for communication between european institutions, eu society and eu citizens. it helps citizens to exercise their right to participate in the democratic life of the union. the commission has a long and healthy tradition of interaction with civil society organisations. this cooperation between the commission and civil society has grown, covering a wide variety of issues from policy dialogue to project management, both within the eu and in our partner countries. the treaty of lisbon would put our existing practices on a more formal footing and provide a fresh impetus to further enhance them. it would also open the door to another option for civil society to operationalise its views through the citizens’ initiative. involving interested parties in an active dialogue requires the provision of appropriate instruments for civil society to express its opinions and be heard. the eu institutions also need equally appropriate instruments to ensure that what we hear from civil society and citizens is properly picked up and put into the system. the commission welcomes the fact that the current report supports many of the ideas the commission is already putting into effect. through its mandate, the current commission has taken a series of initiatives to involve civil society organisations and individual citizens in a public debate on eu issues. one of the more innovative examples of these efforts has been the citizens’ consultations, experimenting with deliberative polling and face-to-face consultations. to understand people’s needs and expectations, over the past 35 years the eurobarometer has been developed into a very valuable tool for monitoring public opinion in europe. neither the commission nor parliament can, however, single-handedly organise a europe-wide public debate. this will only be possible if eu institutions and member states work together. that is the purpose of the political declaration on ‘communicating europe in partnership’ signed by parliament, the council and the commission on 22 october 2008. in this context, the commission and parliament are already coordinating efforts with the member states via the management partnerships, which include regional and local campaigns on specific issues, linking up with action by local authorities and ngos. eleven new management partnerships in 2009 will make this approach even more effective. the commission shares the view that fruitful dialogue depends on the active participation of all sides: the eu institutions, the member states and civil society. the commission hopes that the lisbon treaty will come into force and stands ready to take the necessary action to put its provisions into practice and to continue developing civil dialogue.
in writing. a democratic and citizen-friendly european union requires the eu institutions and the member states to work closely with civil society at national, regional and local levels. civil society, representing the many non-governmental and non-profit organisations set up by citizens of their own free will, plays a very important role in the european integration process by presenting the positions and demands of union citizens to the european institutions. effective and reliable information to citizens and the promotion of civil dialogue are therefore of paramount importance, in particular in promoting and disseminating the actions and intentions of the european union, in building a network of european cooperation and in strengthening european identity among civil society. the european union needs a wider public debate, more effective civic dialogue and greater political awareness to achieve its political aims and objectives. the lisbon treaty strengthens citizens' rights vis-à-vis the union by facilitating their participation and that of associations representing civil society in the debate on a 'citizens' europe'. the european union institutions should work more closely together to build a european citizens' dialogue and promote a pro-european attitude among eu citizens. it is necessary to encourage citizens to take a greater part in european debates and discussions, and to participate actively in the forthcoming elections to the european parliament, because, as jean monnet said, 'we are not creating a union for states and governments, we are creating a union for citizens'.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by ms grabowska on the prospects for developing civil dialogue under the lisbon treaty is a waste of time and resources. so the question is, is it really a fundamental question? what is this debate really about? after all, the treaty is dead - ireland rejected it in a national referendum. this means that the document has no legal force. to build anything on it is to build in a vacuum, without a foundation. building on a treaty that doesn't really exist because it was rejected is a violation of democracy and the equal rights of free peoples. so once again, the encyclopedic knowledge of the term "democracy" is being bowed. in my view, democracy is a conscious choice, not a forced and unconscionable disregard for the will of the people. in a democracy, the sovereign is the people, not a group of interests, and the ultimate form of sovereignty is a referendum, not a decision by a ruling clique that is contrary to the will of the people. is that so hard to understand?
improving the efficiency of the functioning of collective investment undertakings in transferable securities should, in my view, be one of the priorities of parliament's work. in order to increase the benefits and competition of the european fund sector, costs for investors should be reduced while ensuring the same high level of protection for them. i agree with the rapporteur that the existing prospectus should be replaced by a free document containing key information for investors. it is also essential to continue work on a directive on the taxation of mergers of funds in order to remove tax obstacles. moreover, like the rapporteur, i believe that the practical use of a management company passport, which aims to give management companies the right to provide collective portfolio management services throughout the european union, would contribute to the creation of a genuine common market for the funds sector.
in writing. in the debate on the euro, i would like to highlight three negative aspects of its operation. 1.the three non-euro area member states (england, sweden and denmark) have grown faster than the euro area since the introduction of the euro, i.e. from 2002 to 2007 inclusive. gnp in these countries grew almost twice as fast as the euro area average, and unemployment was lower. 2.the fight against the effects of the current financial and, consequently, economic crisis is clearly more effective in these countries than in the euro area. the central banks of england, sweden and denmark have very quickly and significantly reduced interest rates, while providing liquidity to commercial banks. it also appears that fiscal policies in these countries will be more effective than fiscal policies in the euro area. 3.new member states preparing to join the euro area are required to meet a number of monetary and fiscal criteria for two years before joining the euro area. some of these criteria are contradictory, such as the need to be in erm 2 and thus to maintain the deviations of the national currency against the euro within a fluctuation band of +/- 15% while keeping inflation low. countering the pressure to devalue the national currency means that central banks have to intervene, and therefore put more national money into circulation, which obviously increases inflationary pressure. in order to encourage new member states, the commission should consider how to eliminate this apparent contradiction.
i fully support most of the points and statements made in mrs mcguinness' report, which was adopted just now. the rapid fluctuations in food prices will become more frequent on the world market, with negative consequences. the price increases are felt most strongly by the lowest-income families, who spend a large part of their budget on food. it is they who deserve help: the people who need it most in both developing countries and the european union. i agree that the cap should be adapted to new realities to better take account of food security concerns. therefore, the abolition of market management instruments and the reduction of the level of union agricultural expenditure in the future financial perspective should be opposed. it's a good idea to set up an international farm price, factor monitoring observatory within the fao to monitor these data on a global scale and to be able to react quickly to fluctuations. i think we should also consider creating a global food storage system.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the united states of america on cooperation in the field of civil aviation security regulation (a6-0468/2008). i agree with the rapporteur's request for the conclusion of the agreement. i consider that the objectives of the agreement, namely to facilitate trade in the goods and services covered by the agreement, to limit as far as possible the duplication of assessments, tests and inspections to significant legal differences and to rely on a certification system of one party to verify compliance with the requirements of the other party, are legitimate objectives. i hope that building on mutual trust in each other's systems will facilitate the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? after the recent armed conflict in the balkans, european countries have expressed very different views on this issue. however, by actively engaging in the situation, the eu has confirmed that the balkans are an important region for us and an integral part of europe. we therefore have a duty to support these countries in their quest for stability and full democracy. i supported mr belder's report because it stresses the need to help the balkan countries by treating them as individual, independent partners. it is also good that the report stresses the need for a common energy policy. we urgently need diversification of sources, and not only the union but all of europe would benefit from it.
in writing. − to activate the western balkans and encourage them to undertake the necessary reforms, the european union should use all the means at its disposal. the development of regional economic cooperation and the prospect of membership for the countries of the region appear to be particularly important in this context. broad and stable economic links between individual countries would lead to a kind of economic integration that would definitely help to reduce the risk of conflict in the future. the real prospect of membership can also prevent this. the balkans have already made great progress towards joining the european union, but the vision of accession will certainly encourage the countries to continue their efforts towards integration with the community. however, i would like to emphasise that, alongside the economic support instruments, initiatives aimed at integrating the balkan society into the european union are equally important. this is why it is so important to facilitate the movement of people as far as possible and to provide broad support for young people from the region. only if the people of the balkans feel that they are equal citizens of europe can we say that we have succeeded.
in writing. - the european union has played a very important role in the process of economic and political reconstruction of the countries of the former yugoslavia. however, it has taken on a huge responsibility for the entire western balkans. as a result, it now faces the difficult task of rebuilding its entire territory. the union has become the main trading partner of all the western balkan countries. the three main pillars of cooperation are: stabilisation arrangements, trade preferences and technical and financial support. the stabilisation process should aim above all at raising the living standards of the population and ensuring the continuous economic development of the balkan countries. in taking its action, however, the union must take account of the membership of some countries in the european union and the status of others as potential candidates for membership. it is hard to disagree with the rapporteur that the essential condition for the development of the countries in question is their membership of the world trade organisation (croatia, albania and the former yugoslavia are already members). in order to integrate into the world trading system, it is necessary that bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and montenegro also join the wto. while recognising the progress already made in the region in terms of modernisation, the full integration of the western balkans into the economic system of the european union should be pursued.
in writing. − the aim of the common agricultural policy is to increase agricultural productivity, to develop agricultural production rationally by making optimum use of the factors of production, especially labour, and to ensure an adequate standard of living for the rural population, to guarantee security of supply and to ensure reasonable prices for consumers. access to sufficient supplies of safe and nutritious food is now a key policy priority at union and global level. it is worrying that food prices are higher than in previous years and that world food supplies are at a critical low. there is a danger that the global financial crisis could lead developed countries to default on their commitments to help developing countries. medium- and long-term action is needed to secure global food production and to help the most deprived people meet their basic nutritional needs. the most important challenge now is to develop agricultural and food policies that meet the needs of the world's growing population, which is estimated to increase by 40% by 2050, and the world's demand for food, which is expected to double by then. the key policy issue is to develop policies that ensure farmers get a decent income from the food they produce. this is essential for the security of food production. if the market is not able to provide this, it should be done through appropriate policies.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? any initiative aimed at bringing citizens closer to the institutions that work for them should be supported. however, care must be taken to ensure that the proposed initiative does not develop into another institution. i supported this report because every step towards bringing citizens closer to decision-making bodies is a step towards a better and more transparent democracy. however, i would like to stress that, as in any dialogue, the views of each party should be taken into account in this one on the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the lisbon treaty gives citizens' dialogue the status of a principle of the rule of law. it is binding on all union policies and activities. the success of the dialogue depends on representativeness, i.e. the strong involvement of the key actors. national, regional and local authorities should use the method of dialogue to enable citizens to learn about the practical operation of participatory democracy. it is true that the european union has a lot to catch up on in the area of communication, and in particular civil dialogue. eu citizens must be convinced that no decisions at european level will be taken without their participation and that by participating in elections they will have a real influence on the shape of those decisions. i fully support the rapporteur's call to encourage the promotion of civic dialogue initiatives.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs weiler and i support the efforts to transpose the directive on unfair commercial practices (ucp) by businesses towards consumers in the internal market. the idea of creating a ucp blacklist not only in business-to-consumer relations but also in business-to-business relations is commendable. i also support the mechanisms for monitoring and enforcing the implementation of consumer protection laws on unfair practices and support the initiative to create a publicly available database of national measures taken in the framework of the transposition of the unfair commercial practices directive. this initiative is valuable from the point of view of the polish and european consumer.
in writing. − the unfair commercial practices directive and the directive on misleading and comparative advertising are of great importance for increasing consumer confidence and providing businesses with greater legal certainty in the internal market. this is particularly important in relation to cross-border transactions, which are becoming more common on the european market. in the case of such transactions, national consumer protection authorities continue to face difficulties in taking appropriate action in the country of destination. the correct transposition, implementation and enforcement of those directives are essential to achieve the objectives of those directives. unfortunately, a number of member states have not yet complied with this obligation, which does not contribute to building the right relationships between businesses and consumers. in 2007, the european commission introduced the so-called systematic checks mechanism for the first time as a tool to monitor and enforce the implementation of consumer protection legislation on airline websites. the irregularities were confirmed on as many as 43,6% of the websites checked, which only confirms the need for more controls over the enforcement of the already existing rules. i welcome the commission's initiative to create a publicly accessible database of national measures transposing these directives.
in writing. - i strongly support the report by mrs barbara weiler on the transposition and enforcement of the directive on unfair commercial practices in the internal market and the directive on misleading and comparative advertising. the problem of misleading and comparative advertising limited to business-to-business transactions has been addressed by the introduction of a single consolidated directive. the issue of unfair commercial practices in consumer-to-business relations is addressed by directive 2005/29/ec. the directives were designed to increase consumer confidence (their protection has been enhanced by the establishment of a blacklist of commercial practices that should be prohibited and by better harmonising consumer protection against unfair practices) and to provide businesses with greater legal certainty. a higher degree of protection could be achieved if the provisions of the directives were accompanied by effective legal enforcement measures. member states must therefore control their legal systems and increase the transparency of the transposition process. the changes introduced must be supported by accessible implementation procedures and effective remedies that give consumers the right to bring actions for damages for losses suffered as a result of unfair commercial practices, such as the consumer protection control mechanism for airline websites, which was first applied in 2007. at member state level, awareness and education campaigns on means of exercising consumer rights should also be considered.
in writing. - ucits are undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. they are the product of harmonised investment funds which allocate funds in accordance with investment strategies. the ucits framework directive, which is the subject of the klinz report, ensures cost transparency and, which is particularly important in times of economic and financial crisis in the eu member states a high degree of investor protection. the directive lays down the basic requirements for the organisation, management and supervision of the funds. it is true that european investment funds are small compared to the us market, which results in high costs for investors. there is therefore a need to review the ucits package, to adapt it to the needs of investors and to ensure the competitiveness of the eu funds sector. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are mainly to introduce new rules on the merger of funds (so that it would be treated as a domestic merger with tax neutrality), to introduce a key investor information document (replacing the simplified prospectus) and to simplify the current notification procedure by means of a direct exchange of information between supervisors.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the chairman of the libe committee, and i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, for his excellent report and also for the excellent cooperation he has had with the commission on a sensitive and sensitive subject. the commission proposal was to introduce harmonised exceptions to the requirement to take fingerprints so that all european citizens are treated equally. the commission also wanted to protect children from trafficking in human beings by making the internationally recognised principle of one person, one passport legally binding. i would like to welcome the efforts of the european parliament to secure agreement on this proposal at first reading, as fingerprints must be introduced in member states' passports by 28 june 2009. if no agreement had been reached, everyone would have been obliged to give their fingerprints, even newborn babies, as soon as they travel abroad with a passport. so i really want to express the commission's satisfaction with the proposed negotiated compromise. the commission will now proceed with the report requested by the european parliament in the most efficient way possible. i think it is not worthwhile to dwell on it, and i shall now listen with interest to the speeches of the members of the european parliament, and i would like to thank your rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, who has done an excellent job.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am happy to support the proposals presented today. i believe there is an urgent need to create a common set of standards for the verification of biometric data. colleagues may not be aware that at present there are wide discrepancies between countries as to how rigorously, for example, they verify passport photographs. many countries require that the citizen applying for a passport actually present him or herself in person, together with their documents and photographs, and in these cases the officials at the passport-issuing office can see if that person bears a resemblance to the photo presented. however, in some countries – maybe most notably in the united kingdom – applications by post are the norm, and the authenticity of the photo is only confirmed by a so-called ‘professional person’ who has known the applicant for at least two years. the list of persons eligible to do this in the united kingdom makes for fairly interesting reading. this verification can be made by your optician or your dentist, but also by a professional photographer or a fire service official – no disrespect to members of these professions. it is also interesting that fairly lax rules on verification exist in the united states. verifications of photos for passports for first-time applicants can be carried out at so-called ‘acceptable facilities’. in fact, this means the staff at the local post office. it seems incredible for such a security-conscious country, whose citizens enjoy visa-free travel to europe, to have such a system of verification. so, in order to make passports secure, we really need to bring in much more reliable biometric data, namely fingerprints. we also need to ensure that the agency responsible for their collection and verification complies with the same standards, not only within the eu but also in those nations whose citizens do enjoy visa-free travel to europe, to assure us that they too are meeting the same stringent requirements as are our citizens here in europe.
the introduction of passports containing biometric elements to identify the document holder is a response to calls to combat counterfeiting, terrorism and illegal immigration. it is therefore essential to ensure a high level of trust in the collection of biometric data and to establish common basic standards for the collection of data in a way that ensures their security and reliability. i support the rapporteur's proposal to analyse the differences between member states in the compulsory documents required for the issuing of a passport. the security of these documents is usually lower than that of biometric passports. therefore, there is a risk that they will be more easily falsified or counterfeited.
mr. chairman, please! the harmonisation of the rules on security standards, combined with the introduction of biometric identification elements, should have a positive impact on the credibility of documents during their control and thus constitute an element in the fight against counterfeiting. these factors in turn guarantee a more effective fight against crime, terrorism and illegal immigration. in the absence of appropriate tests related to the use of new technologies, member states should introduce their own requirements for the protection of citizens' rights. it is necessary to set an age limit for children as passport holders and to eliminate the cases where one passport can be issued to a holder and his children without biometric data. such situations may facilitate trafficking in children, as the control of the child's identity is made more difficult. in order to prevent such procedures, each person should hold his or her own passport. finally, i would like to stress that in order to ensure the security of the holders of passports and other identity documents, a high level of discretion should be introduced in the process of collecting biometric data.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and saying that i support this report. i think they're not only important, they're good. i shall begin by saying that it has been stated that a passport is a document issued by each member state in accordance with its national legislation. we have different passports. except for the covers. but it is important to strike a balance between the security features of these passports, so that they identify the european union citizen, or any other person entering the european union, and at the same time counter the crimes that passports are notorious for, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, child trafficking and forgery. in this report, i believe, that balance has been struck. there is no indication that the restrictions we put on the report in any way affect or restrict member states in issuing passports. i would also like to draw attention to one principle which i fully support - one person, one passport. it's a good rule for children, and i wish there were no financial barriers for parents who want to get their children a passport, and they may have little money. i would also like to draw attention to one weak point in this report, but which the rapporteur does point out, namely that modern, untested technologies require revision, and it is fortunate that in three years' time we will be able to do so. i also call for the role of the european data protection supervisor to be taken into account. this eu institution must be more closely involved in the whole procedure, and i call for this.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if the union is to be for the people and not for the eurocrats, it must of course be more transparent and the actions of the union's institutions more transparent. only then can the union regain its faith, which has been so wantonly squandered. the one that was lost, for example, by forcing the constitutional treaty and by not having referenda. the right to know the citizens of the union's member states is therefore a requirement that all debates of the council of the union, which are crucial to europe's future, be made known to the citizens of the union's member states - all meetings of the council of the union, not necessarily those of the political groups. it is also important that the same rules for sharing documents apply to parliament, the european commission and the council, so that they are not separate planets in the information and communication firmament. i think this report is a significant step forward in the direction of transparency, but i am deeply convinced that perhaps in some cases it is going too far. comrade lenin said that sometimes it is necessary to take two steps forward, in order to take one step back. perhaps it would be worthwhile for the rapporteur to take this into account.
mr. chairman, please! citizens' rights also include the right to be informed about the activities of elected representatives of the public who hold important public functions. this is particularly true of the institutions of the european union, including the council, whose documents are more difficult to access. information programmes on the internet should be user-friendly and should easily guide the person concerned to the document he or she is looking for. however, not everyone has access to the internet, even though it is very common today. publications available in libraries and discussions more accessible to people with less documentation skills are needed. however, full disclosure of political group proceedings requires some thought.
mr. chairman, please! the principle of public access to the law should be a fundamental principle of democratic systems based on the rule of law, and institutions should be required to be open and transparent. in practice, this should mean that the meetings, debates and votes of democratic legislative bodies should, where possible, be open and draft laws publicly accessible. unfortunately, the council often acts in a way that makes it difficult to link a document to a procedure, thus preventing citizens from having a right of access to those documents. as we know, the internet plays a major role in the process of public access to eu documents. it is therefore necessary to create a single union portal to provide access to documents, procedures and institutions. common rules should be laid down for the application of administrative procedures and for the lodging, secrecy, registration and dissemination of documents. our parliament must be a model for other institutions.
transparency and clarity are the fundamental principles which should guide the union's institutions in their work. only if we achieve the necessary transparency will our activities become more understandable to our citizens and thus closer to them. the consequences of a misguided approach to this issue can be felt by all of us today, in the face of the institutional crisis facing the union. i believe that this disregard for european citizens is what led to the failure of institutional reform and the failure of the treaty to be ratified in france, the netherlands and ireland. we should therefore draw the right conclusions and be aware that the main issue for us should be to achieve social acceptance for the functioning of the european union. to achieve this, citizens need to know what we do, how we work and, ultimately, how we make decisions. the need for a clear, consistent and readable source of information on the activities of all the eu institutions. but the first thing to do is to recognize the european parliament as the body closest to the citizens of the community. let us remember that the union was created for its citizens.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. mr. lambsdorff did a good job. i'm going to the hospital. spending public money has always been a thrill. this is particularly the case for military and security services. it is a question of large sums of money and of choosing the right manufacturers and service providers to provide not so much the cheapest solution but the most optimal one. high quality at a reasonable price. we also have to keep in mind the robustness of all these works and materials, the specific issues of confidentiality, or even secrecy, especially in so-called sensitive problems. these issues are also linked to the offset and return on investment issues. i think we're gonna have to go back to that. i think the position expressed in the draft directive is correct. the proposed solutions will, in my view, lead to an improvement in the functioning of the european public procurement mechanism in the defence sector. it deserves to be accepted.
mr. chairman, please! the united states spends about $500 billion on defense. the european union spends just over 200 billion. but the question is, do the 200 billion in military capacity of the european union countries really account for these resources, as it does in the united states? well, when i was the minister of defence, i met with the industry and i told them that i was the minister of national defence, not the minister of defence industry. and i think that the kind of directive we are talking about today, and for which i would like to thank mr lambsdorf, will make the money we spend on defence much more sensible, much wiser, and will make the european union's military capabilities match the money we are investing in our defence.
since the 1990s, we have seen that the fragmentation of european arms markets has had negative economic effects. over the past 20 years, defence spending has been reduced, leading to a reduction in turnover and employment, as well as a reduction in investment in research and new military technologies. even large member states are now struggling to finance new systems in the arms markets. in order to build up the necessary defence capabilities of the member states, a european defence technological and industrial base should be established. it is necessary to address global security challenges. it is also important to harmonise the european legislative framework so that member states can apply community rules without endangering their national security interests. the essential element of the control procedure must not be forgotten. it should aim to guarantee effective legal protection for tenderers, promote transparency and non-discrimination in the award of contracts.
in writing. i would like to stress the essence of the draft directive on the coordination of procedures for the award of public contracts for certain works, supplies and services in the field of defence and security, which i wholeheartedly support. the directive opens the way to public procurement in the fields of security and defence on the basis of transparent criteria which exclude any discrimination against tenderers from other member states, while guaranteeing the security of those countries. it is therefore essential to be able to rely on the clauses in the ec treaty which provide for derogations from its provisions where this is necessary to protect the essential interests of an eu member. joint production, joint purchasing and public procurement - especially for the most technologically advanced and thus costly equipment - are the most likely means of success for the esdp. the draft directive i support is a good step towards opening up member states' markets and reducing industrial competition between countries that can benefit from common, cost-effective solutions. at the same time, i would like to raise a reservation about the hierarchy of validity of the standardization documents considered when developing the technical requirements for purchased weapons. the competence to set priorities for application should lie with the ministers responsible for defence matters. in addition, i was also struck by the absence of any reference in that draft to the eda supply chain code of practice applied by contractors. it is therefore unclear whether this criterion should still be taken into account when selecting contractors.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. dichloroethane, which is present on the market in various commercial formulations and is made available for general use, is also widely used in the chemical, textile and pharmaceutical industries. dichloromethane is a substance easily absorbed by the human body, highly toxic and carcinogenic, responsible for numerous cases of poisoning, including fatal cases. the number of people exposed to this compound at work in poland alone is estimated at several thousand, and while industrial use can be effectively controlled, the use of dichloromethane by individual consumers, and sometimes even by professional companies, is inherently linked to the risk to their health and life not only because of the lack of real control, but also because of the high cost of protective measures. all precautionary and control measures for dichloromethane are proving ineffective in conditions of high toxicity and volatility of this chemical and therefore it is necessary to completely withdraw dichloromethane from widespread consumer use. the economic factor should not justify the widespread use of this poison. nor can the interests of the industry producing dcm-containing products justify the limited use of dichloromethane by consumers, as the social costs of the widespread use of this compound in the overall balance clearly outweigh the benefits of its use.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. let me first address a word to graham watson. graham, you played a very important role in bringing this proposal to fruition. because at a certain point, when you informed me personally about the problem you had with the commission for many years, it became clear to me that there are indeed alternatives to this substance, and you will admit that things went very quickly from there. it was my personal instruction to my directorate-general to table the bill because contact with you had made it clear to me that there were alternatives. i have said elsewhere in this parliament - and i ask you to listen to mr holm in particular - that although i am the commissioner for industry, i do not believe that an industrial product, if it is dangerous, should be allowed to remain on the market just to make money from it. i believe that if we are dealing with a dangerous industrial product and there is an alternative to it, if you can substitute it, then you must substitute it. that is the principle which i followed when we discussed and decided on reach here, and all the substances, mr holm, which you have mentioned, are now covered by reach. normally, dichloromethane would have been covered by reach, but because the health risks are so obvious and we are dealing with so many cases, we have chosen this substance, and i do not exclude at all that there are other substances where we would have to do the same, if the health risks are so obvious and we cannot wait for the very extensive and demanding reach procedure to be completed. i would also like to make it clear, mr holm, that i would have agreed to a more far-reaching compromise. if you, the parliament, could have agreed with the council that the commercial use of dichloromethane should be banned, i would have said yes to that tonight. i would ask you not to blame the commission for the fact that there are a number of member states which, for reasons i do not know, have not wanted to go further. the commission has already made a proposal which is very important, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. my final comment concerns the remarks made by mr bowis on the question of the toxic effects of alternatives. the thing about chemicals is that you always have to weigh the degree of risk you're taking. our extensive and thorough studies of the alternatives already on the market have shown that none of them exhibit the properties so feared in dichloromethane, namely direct toxic effects on the central nervous system. it's really only dichloromethane and not the others. we know of very few accidents involving the alternative substances. this is also true for countries where the use of dichloromethane is already banned, such as denmark, austria and sweden. if this should change, the commission will of course review the situation and, if necessary, propose measures for other substances. i would like to conclude by making a comment on mr holm's remarks, which i had just forgotten, on the question of whether the commission is forcing member states to abolish progressive environmental or health regulations because they are contrary to the internal market. the commission does not. it is even expressly stated in the law in force that member states have the right to adopt derogating rules, i.e. national rules which depart from the rules of the internal market, if they consider it necessary for health or environmental reasons. as the person responsible for reviewing the notification of such derogating rules, i can tell you that the commission is acting on a very clear and unequivocal principle. we take seriously the health and environmental arguments of the member states when they adopt rules which differ on these grounds and we do not force them to reverse more environmental or health protection. if you have information of this kind that confirms your allegation, and that is from the last few years - the one you mentioned is from 1995, i have nothing to do with that - then i would like to know this accusation very precisely, concretely, in order to be able to refute it.
in writing. mr president, as you know, many dangerous chemicals are allowed to be used in the public domain despite the harmful ingredients that go into them. one such substance is dichloromethane, which is used primarily in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, solvents, and other products. it is particularly harmful to human health because it is classified as carcinogenic. it damages the nervous system and causes severe damage to internal organs, which is associated with a direct threat to human life. because of the faster rate of ventilation of the lungs, children are more susceptible to poisoning, as are those at risk of cardiovascular disease. alarmingly, deaths have been reported from dichloromethane poisoning. in view of the existence on the market of products which can be considered as alternatives to those containing dichloromethane and in view of the fact that some member states have prohibited the use of that substance, it appears necessary to introduce an absolute prohibition of its use. another argument for removing dcm should be that, as the experts point out, it is impossible to ensure that consumers can use dcm safely. the commission's proposal to introduce training on the professional use of dcm products would cost around eur 1.9 million in the first year of implementation. therefore, the withdrawal of dcm from general circulation seems to be the most sensible and responsible solution.
the president-in-office of the council. - i thank you for all the questions or comments about my performance. even in the czech republic, there is a parliament and we are used to a plurality of opinions, so some opinions did not surprise me, even though i could not agree with them completely. however, i would like to repeat at the outset that i really feel that my role, and this is the answer to a whole series of questions, is that of president of the european council, and i do not intend to make any personal or party statements during this six-month period. but i think i have to respond to one thing because it touched me personally, and that is some very sharp condemnations by czech president václav klaus, one of the presidents that european citizens know, which i think is good and i'm proud of. václav klaus is an icon of the 1990s czech transformation and he is the reason we are successful today and he is the reason we made it through those first ten years in good health. i am proud that we lived through the healthy velvet revolution, that we drove the russian troops out of the country in 1991, that we joined the north atlantic alliance in 1999, that we joined the european union in 2004, that we cut the barriers on the borders of the european union last year and today we can travel from lisbon to vilnius without any documents or barriers. i am proud to have been there and to be standing here today and it seems incredible to me that the czech republic is at this moment chairing a body of almost half a billion people and which actually comprises 27 states. so if the european union loses the ability to have a free public debate, apart from the rules and unification, and wants to unify that debate, it will not be my european union. if we lose the ability, the ability to freely express our opinions, it's a road to hell, and i strongly object to attacks on wenceslaus klaus. because he has a unique ability to bring his own views into this unified and i would say overcorrect discussion and thereby set the parameters of the new discussion. free debate is what the european union of the future must cherish, not restrict. the lisbon treaty - which deserves a few words - i would say that the treaty is basically average. it's a little worse than the nice treaty and a little better than the next one. in that sense, that's how i approach it myself. i negotiated this treaty for the czech republic, we approved this treaty in the government, i signed this treaty and i will vote for it in parliament. but again, the idea that we would pre-decree to individual member states that they have to ratify the document, that they don't have the national right to go through their own procedure and decide for themselves whether to accept this document or not, seems absurd to me. we need to change institutions, we need to improve the functioning of european mechanisms, we need to simplify rules, and i am not entirely sure that the treaty of lisbon contains all this. we all had a slightly different view of how this should look, but for me, mrs bobošík, this is a compromise, a compromise which may be very difficult, and i will support its ratification. the situation in the middle east and the position of the european union in this conflict deserve a few words. the european union has long been described as a very big payer but not a player. that is, she was very involved in investments, whether humanitarian or development in this area, but she did not play the role that she was supposed to play within the quartet, and she did not have the responsibility that came with that participation in the quartet. i believe that the current situation, even with the new us administration, gives the european union the opportunity to invest not only money but also proposals for solutions and greater activity in this region. i don't want to be a judge of one side or the other right now, because the truth is that israelis have a right to live in safety, not under rockets, and i've been to zderot and ashkelon and other areas of israel. and so the people of palestine have the right to establish their own state, a functioning administration, and to live a safe and quality life. no one has solved this conflict for 60 years. i have no illusions that we'll resolve it now, our goal is to achieve a ceasefire and a cessation of hostilities in the short term. i would like to acknowledge not only the role of the european negotiators, the mission headed by karl schwarzenberg, who were heading there, but of course the role of the arab states in the region, which are doing something positive. whether it's egypt or maybe turkey and other countries. i believe that once those conditions are met, for example, to stop the arms smuggling from sinai to gaza, we could achieve together, within the global security architecture, not just as the european union, as just part of that global architecture, that the fighting could be stopped, and at this point i'm rather skeptical that it would be fast. energy issues, energy security, climate change, the role of the european union in this process: it must be clear to everyone that if the leadership of the european union on climate change, whatever i may think of it personally, is not joined by economies and big players like the united states of america, the russian federation, brazil, india, china, then this step of the european union is abandoned, isolated and globally worthless. our role is to convince the other world powers and the biggest emitters to follow us, and that's where i see our role during the first half of the year, because i consider the climate and energy package to be a closed case at this point, and we're waiting for implementation after approval, of course, in the european parliament, i hope. the whole question of the energy mix is sometimes too ideologised, too politicised, and i think the european union must take a very practical and pragmatic approach to this and see short, medium and long-term objectives and short, medium and long-term means to achieve those objectives. i cannot imagine that countries which are 90% dependent on coal production, such as poland, are capable of changing this dependence in a radical, in some very sharp way, within the next 15 or 20 years. we also need to invest in new coal technologies, clean coal technologies and in increasing the efficiency of the plant, because it is not possible to change this dependence unilaterally and very quickly. we need to talk about this, invest in innovation and of course gradually adjust the energy mix to what we're talking about here, which is moving towards more environmental protection, less dependence on fossil fuels, of course, a secure and relatively cheap energy supply so that europe remains competitive and is able to compete on a global scale. the whole russia-ukraine crisis is not just a crisis of trust, but it reflects business, economic, political, geopolitical and strategic interests. it is a multi-layered problem, and i do not want to be the judge who is guilty in the short term, because for us, for the european union and for the european countries, both countries are guilty at the moment. one country is not delivering, the other country is not allowing the transit of supplies, and in this sense we have to act in the region and we have to look for ways to end this problem in the short term, how to diversify both resources and transit routes in the medium and long term, how to ensure the interconnection of both electricity and gas systems in the european union, so that we can achieve what is not working now, which is solidarity and the implementation of emergency plans, because i don't want to be a bad prophet, but the crisis is not over yet, and the situation in slovakia, bulgaria, the balkan countries is very sad and critical. from what i have noted from the speeches of the representatives of the various political groups, i do not think that our agenda is too liberal or too conservative, our agenda is based on long-term goals and the long-term agenda of the european union and the czech contribution to it, the czech footprint, has been proven correct in the first days of the new year, because our emphasis on energy security, without us knowing it, perhaps five minutes after twelve, leads to a very consistent, thorough discussion on how to ensure the independence and freedom of the european union, which is given less independence or dependence on energy and resources imports from outside the european union. there was the question of the anti-discrimination directive, the barcelona objectives, the lack of emphasis on social issues, i do not think so, we have of course tried to reduce these basic objectives to some symbols, because we do not underestimate the issue of anti-discrimination or the issue of the protection of women. i assure you that we have a very extensive experience with the forced residence of children in various institutions and it is crucial for us that women and families have the possibility of choosing, that they have the possibility to choose whether their job at a given moment will be childcare and to do this we want to create all kinds of tools, so that it is possible, so that it does not put the family economically at the border of social need, and on the other hand, that there is a sufficient number of different tools from children's institutions and believe me that a country like the czech republic with this has a lot of experience from the time of the totalitarian regime, when this principle was a little enforced. i think that this can be everything in the beginning, if there is something the czechs lack, it is self-confidence, so in conclusion i want to say that we do not suffer from any feeling of inferiority, because the czech republic is the smallest of the big countries or the largest of the small ones, we are the twelfth largest country in the european union. let me just remind you that when the swedish presidency took over in 2001, the news stories were the same as they were in december and november in the european media, when there were doubts about whether the eurosceptic swedes, who do not have the euro and do not want it, are able to start working on the adoption of a single currency, whether they are able to start discussions on ratifying the treaty of nice and whether they will be able to lead the european union as a new country. these articles, if we were to replace the treaty of nice with the treaty of lisbon today, and if we were to replace sweden with the czech republic, they look exactly the same. we don't have any of that.
madam president, prime minister, please! there is only one criterion for the czech presidency, which has been chosen by your government and by the dramatic circumstances of the last few weeks. the energy policy of the european union is that criterion. we are now at the end of another chapter in the energy dispute between russia and europe, but we still have no systemic guarantee, no policy framework that would allow us to avoid similar problems in the future. after the energy crises of 2004, 2006 and 2008, it is high time that the union started to act actively not only in favour of diversifying transport routes. we also urgently need to diversify our own sources of energy. i therefore expect the czech presidency to take steps to provide financial support for the nabucco gas pipeline and to pursue an active energy policy in central asia. i therefore expect action to be taken to remove the northern gas pipeline from the european commission's list of priority objectives. if we don't do something like this, we're gonna wake up next winter with the same problems.
madam president, this is the first presidency of a former soviet bloc country, and we are keeping our fingers crossed for you, prime minister, that it will be a first-class presidency. you have inaugurated your presidency in a hot political temperature and the freezing wind of the energy crisis. i should like to congratulate you, prime minister topolánek, for your quick action and commitment to finding a solution to the gas crisis and the mediation you have undertaken between russia and ukraine. two of the three main priorities of the czech presidency – energy and the eastern partnership – need gas. this is the crossroads of both your presidency priorities. you have to find an emergency solidarity solution right now. you have to work on unblocking gas deliveries to 18 member states whose citizens and industries are suffering. then you have to find a lasting, sustainable and systemic solution for the longer term. we need you to design a comprehensive and decisive strategy. i also welcome your priority on the eastern partnership, which would give us an appropriate framework for better cooperation with our eastern partners, who are so close to our borders. the european parliament will complement it with its own dimension by building an interparliamentary assembly, which we call euronest. this partnership would contribute to preventing another crisis like the present one. i am confident that the czech presidency, which is confronted with such challenging times and crisis management, will be able to fulfil our expectations and that in six months we will have fewer barriers and a strong and safer europe, also a sweeter europe, as your slogan says:evropě to osladíme! přeji vám mnoho úspěchů.
madam president, prime minister, please! paradoxically, the global crisis that has hit the world, and europe too, can be a great ally for you, because those who are accustomed to teaching everyone here bear the main responsibility for this crisis. they're the ones who supervised him and led him to him. today we see a new breath in your words and we wish the czech presidency all the best. i'd like to remind you of a fact from history that should be exploited. in 1618, a vicious habsburg delegation arrived in hradcany, and they were extremely arrogant. the czechs were right to throw them out the window. this has been called defenestration. i wish you such political defenestration. i hope that you will throw all the dishonest advisers out of the window of decency and reason and that you will push the cause of europe forward, because that is what the citizens of europe want, and you will not achieve that if you listen to these impostors.
madam president, prime minister, chairman of the commission! first of all, i congratulate the prime minister on taking office and i congratulate you on the difficult but successful first two weeks of this presidency, mr. prime minister! i fully understand the prime minister's words about the national identity that we, the countries between east and west europe, have built with great dedication. i would like to draw attention to what i believe is the key issue for this six-month period: the third energy package. this package is about, firstly, the common energy market, the common european agency for the cooperation of national regulators, cross-border interconnections and joint investments, and so it is about integration, in other words energy solidarity, energy security. secondly, the third energy package is also liberalisation, fair rules for access to the grid, i.e. market competitiveness, and this always means lower costs and environmental damage and cheaper energy for consumers, and therefore cheaper energy for the economy, which can help overcome the crisis. thirdly, and finally, the third package is fair rules for the external countries on our market, common supply routes for the eu countries and transport possibilities through third countries. in the context of the eastern partnership and the eastern dimension of the union, the third package also has its own meaning. in each of the three main priorities of your presidency - energy, the economy, the eastern european dimension - a third package could be useful. i appeal to the prime minister to make this a priority and to give full... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to start by recalling the underground meeting of the opposition from both countries 21 years ago, organized by polish-czechoslovak solidarity in the karkonosze mountains, on the polish-czechoslovak border. the czech republic is the first central and eastern european country to hold the presidency of the union. mr. prime minister, this is binding. the czech republic, as the leader of the european union, is inheriting the middle eastern tradition of fighting for the abolition of the iron curtain, for a democratic community of societies on the european continent. i would like to stress the particular intellectual and political importance of the czech presidency. among the many priorities, the main ones are to complete the ratification of the lisbon treaty and to strengthen the european union's common foreign policy. the preparation of a transatlantic strategy following the election of the new american president is also a very important task. in conclusion, i would like to express my wishes for a speedy recovery of president vaclav havel from his recent surgery.
madam president, prime minister, please! the czech presidency, for the first time in many years, did not include the dead euro-constitution, now presented as the lisbon treaty, in its agenda of objectives. this realistic attitude is optimistic and shows respect for democracy and the principle of unanimity in the european union. the czech presidency decided to focus on the most important current issues: the conflict in gaza and energy security, among others. initially, there were no plans to intervene in the russian-ukrainian gas conflict. however, when it affected many eu member states, prime minister topolánek took up the mediation. it is clear that the presidency will not achieve all its objectives in six months, but the first two weeks already show that it can be effective, contrary to the wild predictions of european politicians in this house. on behalf of the delegation... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the czech presidency is a difficult time for the eu as a whole. the financial, energy and economic crisis is more acute than at any time in its 50-year history. in addition, the european parliament elections in june and the renewed armed conflict in the gaza strip. i personally regret that the czech republic does not have the right tools to deal with these problems. i regret that the treaty of lisbon, which reformed the union, has not entered into force. this is why the union has no common foreign policy, no effective decision-making system and no energy solidarity. and much of this is due to president vaclav klaus, whose views on climate change, eu reform and the euro are if not hostile, certainly bizarre. i therefore appeal to the czech government and prime minister mirko topolanka to limit as much as possible klaus' public speaking on eu affairs, in their own well-understood interests and in our common interests. the czech priorities in the form of three e's: economy, energy and external relations describe european needs well. so i expect that minister schwarzenberg's promising announcement that the czechs will 'move european affairs forward' and 'not be the worst pupils in the class' will come true. i wish our southern neighbours a successful presidency with all my heart!
in writing. i would like to thank prime minister mirko topolánek for presenting the priorities of the czech presidency. the three e's: economy, energy, europe in the world, which are to form the backbone of the community's presidency, are experiencing additional, unplanned external actions: gas and gas. the problem of the conflict in the gaza strip is political. but it has become so military that humanitarian causes have come to the fore. people are dying out there! not just the hamas fighters who initiated the armed clashes, but innocent children, women, men. the union, together with the un, must do everything possible to find a solution to this bloody conflict. jews and palestinians can live side by side in peace. i ask that you continue to work towards this goal. the gas problem is felt in many european countries. the dispute between the two companies russian and ukrainian has turned into a dispute between these countries. this is a major problem for many people in countries where the energy supply is limited in the middle of a freezing winter. this also results in significant economic losses, as the gas is also used for industrial purposes. it is therefore high time to create a common eu oil and gas system that uses diversified sources of supply. we must also look for new sources of energy and return to modern methods of gasification. poland is taking such steps. i wish our czech friends every success in achieving the eu's objectives.
in writing. we have six months of the czech presidency of the european union ahead of us, and it is not an easy presidency, as has already been shown. the two major crises we have had to face in recent weeks remind us that effective leadership of the union is not just a well-prepared programme but, above all, the ability to react quickly and appropriately to difficult problems. this is something that any member state preparing to take over the presidency of the union should bear in mind. the czech presidency follows a very dynamic and ambitious french presidency. surely, comparisons cannot be avoided. however, i believe that the czech authorities are well prepared to fulfil their responsibilities and the czech presidency will be an example of how even a small country, which has only recently become a member of the community, can effectively lead the union. and even the political divisions in the national arena should not interfere with that. i would like to appeal to the presidency to focus on the day-to-day problems of the day as well. large and ambitious plans are important and necessary, but often too distant for citizens. and today, on the eve of the european elections, the people of the union should feel that the community was created for them, for the citizens, and that it is working to improve their daily lives. so great visions, but through the lens of everyday life. i wish you luck!
mr. chairman, please! a child has a right to both parents' feelings. even if the parents' marriage has broken down, it is the child's best interests, not the 'opinion' of the officials, that should determine his contact with his parents. children have the right to communicate with their parents in their mother tongue. if the parents are of different nationalities, they should have the right to speak in the language of each. meanwhile, the jugendamt acts to the detriment of children from mixed marriages, while limiting contact with the non-german parent. the petitions committee has registered over 200 complaints in this case. that's why i voted for the 24th amendment. her rejection influenced my final vote against a report that both erased the right to life through pro-abortion legislation and violated the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am voting in favour of the report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2252/2004 on standards for security features and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by member states (a6-0500/2008). i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to introduce the 'one person, one passport' principle, so that each person has his own passport with his biometric data. the situation where one passport can be issued for the holder and his children with their names but containing only the biometric data of the parent-passport holder may significantly facilitate trafficking in children. i also support mr coelho's initiative to allow two exemptions from the fingerprinting requirement, exempting children under the age of six and all persons whose fingerprints cannot be taken for various reasons.
in writing. − the european arms market is fragmented, with negative economic consequences. the main objective of the adopted directive is to counteract this fragmentation and to create a single arms market within the european union, while taking into account the specificities of the defence market and the protection of the security interests of the member states. the member states have taken the view that the existing public procurement directive does not sufficiently take account of the specific nature of public procurement in the field of defence. hence the numerous measures adopted in the directive concerning the award procedure, the selection of tenderers and the contractual requirements applied by contracting entities. the control procedure provided for in the directive is also intended to ensure effective legal protection for tenderers and to promote transparency and non-discrimination in the award of contracts. i believe that the rules adopted will contribute to a real opening of the market while taking into account the issue of national security. the directive should also lead to cost optimisation, both in national budgets and on the industrial side, and to the supply of the armed forces with the best equipment available on the market.
in writing. − while respect for human rights is an essential foundation for the work of all states and organisations at international level, the report on fundamental rights in the eu 2004-2007 is a scandalous violation of these rights in europe. that's why i couldn't support him in today's vote. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, which will be able to provide information on the activities of the european union and its member states. i can't agree to that.
in writing. − the report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union 2004-2008 recognises effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights as one of the most important foundations of democracy in europe. at the same time, the committee rightly notes that the member states often evade control at eu level by considering the protection of human rights to be a purely internal matter, thus undermining the community's authority to defend fundamental rights at international level. the european commission should therefore focus on encouraging member states to cooperate more closely with it by offering to include in future human rights reports not only analyses of the situation in the world but also in individual member states. it is also worth noting a number of proposals to combat discrimination policies in the union effectively, stressing that equal opportunities are a fundamental right of every citizen, not a privilege. it is extremely worrying that some 20% of children in the european union live below the poverty line, often from single-parent families or with parents born outside the community. in this regard, it is necessary to adopt appropriate access to rights measures, focusing on the needs of children, and to take effective measures by member states to combat poverty.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-2008), by italian mep giusto catania, because the author of this report did not so much describe the situation in this area over the past four years as expressed opinions on subjects suggesting or even attempting to impose on the member states legal solutions that fall within their exclusive competence. i believe that the countries of the union cannot be forced to legislate in ways that are not acceptable to their own citizens. the very term "marriage" should be reserved for the union of a man and a woman. the proposals of the member for catania do not lead to tolerance of homosexual behaviour (which i support), but directly to discrimination against biologically valid relationships, i.e. heterosexual ones. the question is whether the aim is not to restrict the rights of the family in its traditional sense, which consists of the mother, the father and the children. very personal matters related to sex life become politicized activities, for example by publicly demonstrating one's homosexual orientation, including in so-called "love parades". this report, in my view, by using phrases such as 'reproductive rights', which in the current understanding of international law means, among other things, free access to abortion, opens wide the door to such practices.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr giust catania on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-2008). i voted against it because i'm against the fundamental rights. on the contrary, i'm not. i believe that fundamental rights are of particular importance for the union and for the world. the problem is that the report by mr catania is detrimental to the implementation of fundamental rights. why would you do that? well, because the demand for the establishment of eu law to combat homophobia or the recognition of homosexual unions are not fundamental rights. if anything, those demands should be in a completely different report. the european parliament's extension of the definition of fundamental rights cannot be effective because it has no power to legislate on international law. in addition, some member states do not agree with such an expansive interpretation. so this is just a political gesture and wishful thinking. the danger is that this is a sphere for member states to decide and should decide. the european union is not a single market. i don't like homophobia, but to establish a community law to combat it is absurd. if the union is to combat homophobia, it can be said that it should also combat anti-polishness, anti-russianism, anti-germanism, anti-frenchness, anti-islamophobia, anti-papism, anti-clericalism, anti-catholicism and many other attitudes and behaviours. forcing the acceptance of legal homosexual unions by member states can be even more dangerous.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr catania on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. unfortunately, fundamental rights are frequently violated in the european union, particularly in cases of discrimination against minorities and violations of privacy. the problem is also the respect of equal opportunities, especially the right to equality for women. the rapporteur calls on the member states to reject the arguments based on tradition and religion that justify violence and discrimination against women. in many countries of the community, citizens, especially the most vulnerable, children, are affected by discrimination and poverty. the report rightly condemns all forms of violence against children, such as domestic violence, sexual violence and corporal punishment in schools. member states are evading scrutiny of human rights practices, undermining the credibility of the union's external policy in the world. i believe that the communities cannot apply 'double standards' in their internal and external policies.
in writing. − for me, the main importance of mr catania’s report is to remind us that we inside the eu have our own issues to confront. we should therefore be very careful about taking a holier-than-thou approach when commenting on human rights outside the eu. i served on the temporary committee into extraordinary rendition by the cia. it was principally a platform for the left to attack their favourite bête noire, the united states. in my view, we should be grateful to the cia and the united states for helping to protect europeans from terrorists bent on killing innocent citizens. it is an indictment of our own societies that we had to rely on america to do the job for us. absolutism over human rights is playing into the hands of those who would destroy us, and putting the human rights of our own citizens at risk. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the report on fundamental rights in the eu 2004-2008, adopted today by the european parliament, calls for the mutual recognition of same-sex unions in all eu countries and the mainstreaming of such arrangements in the law of the member states. in another part of the report, the report defends so-called reproductive rights, which in the language of international law mean, among other things, free access to abortion. parliament has broadened its criticism of so-called discriminatory remarks by adding religious leaders to the list of those who have made such remarks. the eu fundamental rights report has been used by the european left to promote abortion and homosexual demands that have nothing to do with fundamental rights. there is no document of international or european law that would confirm the existence of such rights. despite its non-binding nature, this is the most damaging document adopted by the european parliament in this term of office. this is another attempt to redefine the concept of fundamental rights in order to change their meaning without having to take action to amend the treaties in the un or eu. another aspect of the report is the call for a specific eu directive to provide for penalties for so-called homophobic behaviour. given the capacity and vagueness of the wording, it is an attempt to exclude homosexual communities from the democratic right to free criticism. its application could have consequences of a censorship nature. the final vote (401 in favour, 220 against, 67 abstentions) showed that meps were deeply divided in their assessment. this is a failure for the rapporteur, because fundamental rights should unite parliament, not divide it.
in writing. −on 15 march 2006, the un general assembly adopted a resolution replacing the un commission on human rights with the human rights council, an international subsidiary body for the promotion and protection of human rights. the change of name was accompanied by the introduction of new mechanisms and procedures that increased the human rights council's capacity. the purpose of the report is to assess the council's achievements and to compare the expectations it sets with the tasks it has carried out. in addition, the report aims to identify possible improvements in the functioning of the council. it must not be forgotten that democracy and human rights are the foundations of the european union's international functioning. the union has established a very prominent role for itself, it is active in international human rights bodies, it has been active in setting up the human rights council, it is a co-author of texts such as conventions and resolutions setting standards for the protection of human rights. unfortunately, in many cases the union lacks foresight and speed (mainly because of the sometimes time-consuming procedures for developing a common position) and leadership in human rights initiatives.
in writing. − in accordance with the treaty on european union, the union is putting the concept of transparency and the creation of an ever closer union between the peoples of europe first, in which decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen. transparency allows citizens to participate more closely in the decision-making process and ensures that the administration is more legitimate, more efficient and more accountable to the citizens in a democratic system. the european court of justice's judgment in turco has far-reaching implications for transparency and access to documents of the european institutions relating to legislative matters. that judgment confirms that the principle in question should be applied as a matter of priority and applies to all community institutions and (very importantly) that the possibility of derogating from it should be interpreted restrictively and weighed in each case against the overriding public interest of openness. the public increases trust in the institutions by providing the opportunity for public debate. ets concluded that in this case the refusal of access to documents could not be justified by the general need to protect the confidentiality of legal opinions on legislative matters.
mr. chairman, please! i want to address those who have presented in this room a unique load of hypocrisy and demagoguery. this war is another war, and each one was similar, and each one is different. this conflict that we're seeing and talking about today is an asymmetrical conflict. for three years, israel has been bombarded with homemade rockets and not a word of condemnation has been uttered from this room against those who fired. and today we condemn israel. we condemn israel easily because it's a member of the un. there are things to condemn, there are authorities. there is a government that can be condemned and censored. there's some kind of terrorist organization on the other side, but we don't know who. an organization that manages the lives of innocent people behind whose backs it hides. another element of the asymmetry: we count the dramatically killed palestinians, used as human shields, and we don't compare it to the killed israelis and the thousands of others who are threatened because one blood cannot be compensated by another blood. but the worst thing about this room is the asymmetry of words and deeds. we're easy to talk to, but very difficult to get people to act. without an international presence, this conflict will never be resolved. i would like to end by addressing those who are protesting against the disproportionate actions of israel. would you like a terrorist organization to launch 7,000 rockets into gaza from israeli territory? would that be proportionality? well, this is a disproportionate conflict where the application of the law is ineffective, and we just have to get used to it, or else we'll be spinning around and using words that don't fit the reality. the position in front of the tv and the burning fireplace is not the right one to tell the truth about this conflict.
mr president, long-lasting conflict and occupation give rise to anger, rage and disappointment at the efficacy of legal authorities, producing something we call the ‘hamas effect’, as a serious factor. the denial of israel by arabs, islamics and hamas is unacceptable, as is using children as human shields. neither should the constant threat under which israeli children live be allowed. the question is whether, in this vicious circle of aggression, the present israeli authorities are able to take the lesson from the six-year-long history in the area, and apply the scalpel-like strategy for two states. i know that they fear the threat from an aggressive and unpredictable neighbour shelling them with rockets, but in this matter the international community, including the eu, could come with help. is this risky solution acceptable, today, to israel? but is there any other solution? if there is, tell me. to expect hamas to die out naturally, or by bombing them out, looks like a naïve expectation, so more courage is needed by israel. the western powers did not create two states in 1948, but they should do so now. the core responsibility does not fade away. let us be more courageous in this strategy.
we are watching with great pain what is happening in the gaza strip. we do not support hamas's way of fighting and provoking, but israel has chosen a disproportionate way of resolving the dispute with the palestinian people. there is certainly a violation of international law. neither side of the conflict is thinking about peace for the other. both sides only see their own interests. it's national egoism. the international community is not in agreement with the continuation of this war. the european union and the united nations, with the support of many countries, should intervene decisively. it's time to end this unfortunate war. the israeli army is to return to their barracks. hamas is to stop firing rockets into israeli territory. it is imperative to guarantee greater humanitarian aid to the civilian population, to provide care for the wounded, of whom, according to sources, there are about 3000. we need to rebuild and bring the country back to normal. i ask the current eu presidency and the european commission to adopt this scenario.
in writing. at its january plenary session, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the conflict in gaza. the two sides were called, in particular, to an immediate and lasting ceasefire and to an end to the military operations (israeli military operation and hamas rocket attacks on israel) which have for some time prevented humanitarian aid and support from reaching the residents of the war-torn territory. the conflict has claimed over a thousand lives, and civilians have been suffering for nearly three weeks, including women and children. there are basic necessities like drinking water and food. un facilities are under attack. the resolution calls for the respect of international law, which would resolve the existing conflict. israel is our friend, and as a state it has the right to defend itself, but it must be stated and emphasized that in this case the measures taken by israel are far out of proportion. israel should talk to hamas, negotiate, because the measures that have been used so far are not the solution. the european union also faces a difficult task: it must find, as soon as possible, the mechanisms that will lead to dialogue and reconciliation between the parties and bring the conflict to a lasting end.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the council would like to thank the european parliament for placing this item on the agenda of its first part-session this year. you will probably agree with me that the czech presidency displayed remarkable foresight when it placed security of energy supply as one of the cornerstones or priorities of our presidency this year. the european union is undoubtedly facing a major gas supply disruption as a result of the dispute between the russians and the ukrainians and between the gazprom and naftogaz organisations. the extent of this supply cut now covers about 30% of the community’s total gas imports. so this is a situation that not even the cold war years have seen us exposed to – the total cut-off that we are facing today. the council and the commission were aware of the potential problem. as you know, we faced a similar situation three years ago, in 2006, and this is more or less a recurring annual problem, as each year russia increases the prices of the gas it exports to its neighbouring countries towards market levels. therefore, we were extremely vigilant, in view of the community’s large degree of dependence on russian gas. indeed, for some member states, dependence on the gas supplied by russia reaches about 100%. i would like to stress in particular the difficult situation of countries like bulgaria or slovakia. it also gives us an explanation as to why, for example, in the central and eastern european countries, this is problem number one – the people are freezing and it is on the front page of the newspapers. i know that in some other countries, which are not facing the problem with that kind of intensity, the situation is probably different, at least in pr terms. this time, we already received a formal warning from the russian side on 18 december 2008 through the eu-russia early warning mechanism that a problem might occur if the ongoing negotiations between ukraine and russia did not result in an agreement on prices, transit fees and payment of the debts. so we were not that surprised by what has happened, but we were surprised by the magnitude and the intensity of the cut. contacts, therefore, took place at the highest level prior to 1 january 2009 in order to avert the disruption of supply. the czech presidency had been monitoring the situation well before the beginning of the year. i personally already met russian officials in prague two days before christmas eve. the commission took adequate precautions in order to follow the development throughout the holiday period and shared its information with the gas coordination group in early january. both prior to and after 1 january 2009, the presidency and the commission – working very closely with andris piebalgs – received assurances from both actors that gas deliveries to the eu would not be affected. as you know, the czech presidency, together with the commission and with the aid of some member states, has been in contact with both the ukrainians and the russian gas companies and travelled several times in order to meet with both sides. in these contacts we have not sought to blame either side, or take sides, or even act as a mediator, since this is a commercial dispute. rather, we have emphasised to both parties the gravity of the situation, stressing the fact that the credibility and dependability of russia as a supplying country and of ukraine as a transit country are both clearly damaged. as the gravity of the situation has increased, we have also acted as a ‘facilitator’ as far as deliveries of gas to the community were concerned – a role that was very much appreciated by both parties, because they were not talking to each other at all. let me give a brief synopsis of what has happened since the early morning of 1 january 2009 – new year’s day. on 1 january 2009, russia announced it had stopped deliveries of gas to ukraine, whilst keeping deliveries to the eu at full level. that same day, the czech presidency and the commission issued a statement calling on both sides to look for a prompt solution and honour their contractual obligations towards eu consumers. on 2 january 2009, as it became clear that deliveries to the eu were beginning to be affected, a formal declaration by the czech presidency on behalf of the eu was issued and early in the morning on the same day in prague, we received a ukrainian delegation led by the minister of energy, yuriy prodan. this was made up of all parts of the ukrainian political spectrum, such as the adviser to president yushchenko, representatives of naftogaz and the representative of the mfa. on 3 january 2009, we had a lunch in prague with the director of gazexport alexander medvedev, and i personally took part in both meetings. both meetings revealed a flagrant lack of transparency as regards contracts between gazprom and naftogaz and especially a lack of confidence which prevents progress in reaching an agreement. the stories given by both sides were totally different on certain issues, so that was the moment when we started to push the monitoring issue. in an effort to tackle this problem of divergent views, the idea of a joint fact-finding mission by the presidency and the commission, led by the czech minister of industry and trade, martin říman, and by matthias ruete, the director-general of dg tran, emerged, and it obtained the mandate to do this from an extraordinary coreper i session, which we called on 5 january 2009, the first working day after the holidays. the mission went to kiev. they also visited the dispatching centre and then the next day they travelled to berlin to meet the gazprom representative on 6 january 2009. also on 6 january 2009, as the gas supplies were severely reduced to several eu member states, leading to a major supply disruption, an extremely strong statement by the presidency and the commission was issued, calling on both sides to immediately and unconditionally resume gas supplies to the eu. the presidency and the commission then sought to accelerate the conclusion of a prompt political agreement between the russian federation and ukraine so that gas supplies could be restored without further delay. gas supplies were also the number one topic of the european commission’s meeting with the czech government, traditionally the strategic session, which took place on 7 january 2009 in prague and also dominated the first informal council which we organised in the czech republic – the general affairs informal meeting held in prague last thursday. again, we were planning to discuss energy security in advance, but, of course, we had to react promptly and thus adopted a strong declaration by the presidency on behalf of the eu, which was approved by all. following the complete standstill reached by gas supply transiting through ukraine on 7 january 2009, with severe consequences for those member states with little possibility to mitigate the cut, we stepped up pressure and after lengthy and difficulty negotiations got both sides to agree on sending a monitoring team composed of independent eu experts, accompanied by observers from both sides. this team was tasked with providing an independent monitoring of gas flow transiting through ukraine to the eu and is deployed in both countries. monitoring was defined by russia as a precondition for the resumption of gas supplies. deployment of this mission was not easy to achieve, as you probably observed. first, the resistance of the ukrainians to include a russian expert in the monitoring mission had to be overcome, then an annex added unilaterally by ukraine to the agreement painfully brokered by our presidency was refused by russia. after several trips by prime minister topolánek to kiev and moscow and difficult negotiations with president yushchenko and prime minister tymoshenko and also prime minister putin in moscow, the agreement was eventually signed on 12 january and created a legal basis for the deployment of the monitors, and asked for the resumption of russian gas supplies to the eu. russia then announced that the supply would be resumed on 13 january at 08.00 in the morning, but then – i do not know whether it was 13 january – the progress did not take place as expected. on monday 12 january we, the czech presidency, convened a special council of energy ministers in order to press for further transparency on transit-related issues, identify short-term mitigating measures to be taken until supplies are fully restored and identify medium- to long-term measures that are needed to prevent the consequences of such major disruption in future. the council also adopted the conclusions reflected in document 5165 which urged both sides to resume gas deliveries to the eu immediately and to develop solutions that prevent recurrence. furthermore, in these conclusions, council agreed to urgently develop the strengthened medium- and long-term measures relating inter alia to transparency regarding the physical flow of gas, demand and storage volumes, regional or bilateral solidarity arrangements, to address the issue of missing energy infrastructure interconnections (which is a huge problem), to continue to diversify the transport route and sources, and to address the financing aspects of this, also by speeding up the revision of the security of gas supply directive. a further meeting of the gas coordination group on monday 19 january now looks likely. the energy council, the tte, will revisit the issue at its scheduled 19 february meeting through the conclusions it will adopt on the commission’s communication on the second strategic energy review. these conclusions and the commission communication will be discussed at the march european council meeting which will no doubt devote adequate attention to the events of the past weeks. allow me also to make a couple of final remarks in that introductory statement. first, the key objective of the presidency in the recent dispute has been an immediate resumption of gas supplies in the contracted amounts. the dispute is not over yet, as we all know. therefore it is essential that the eu does not become entangled in the bilateral quarrels between gazprom and naftogaz. second, both the presidency and the commission keep urging both parties to dialogue in order to reach a compromise under which gas supplies to the eu could be restored. the failure to respect the agreement of 12 january by either russia or the ukraine would, in the view of the presidency and the commission, be unacceptable. the conditions for the resumption of supply – as stipulated in the agreement – have been fulfilled and there is no reason therefore not to restore the supply fully. the presidency is well aware of the number of problems which persist. these need to be addressed, otherwise the insecurity concerning russian gas via the ukraine will linger on. first, there is this issue of the technical gas that the ukraine needs to keep its transit system running. it is necessary that both sides reach a transparent agreement defining who is responsible for the technical gas supply and who pays for it. second, it is crucial that the russia-ukraine contracts on gas prices and transit fees set clear and legally binding conditions preventing similar disruption from recurring. the presidency, together with the commission, have repeatedly called on both sides to sign such a contract. however, neither we nor the commission intend to intervene in the negotiations on the contractual conditions between the two commercial subjects. the presidency is also aware of the widely-shared consensus among the member states that short-, medium- and long-term solutions be adopted without delay that would prevent similar situations from recurring in the future. energy security is one of the top presidency priorities. the presidency has taken the lead in chairing the discussion on possible solutions for our energy dependency trap: be it the informal council, as i mentioned, or the tte-energy session. of the issues mentioned in the energy council conclusions, i would like to mention the following. firstly, the member states agree that the creation of a functional and efficient solidarity mechanism is one of the cornerstones of future eu energy security. secondly, solidarity presupposes interconnections of european energy networks, as well as improvements in energy infrastructure. thirdly, increased gas storage capacity is crucial for the operability of the solidarity mechanism. fourthly, in the light of the current crisis, the presidency also urges agreement on the review of the directive concerning measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supplies by the end of 2009. furthermore the eu needs to diversify its gas resources and supply routes. to this end, the presidency will organise the southern corridor summit in may 2009, expecting tangible results as regards the diversification of resources and supply routes and as regards closer cooperation with the countries of the southern caucasus and central asia. eu energy security is not feasible unless internal energy security market is completed and functional. therefore the presidency is looking forward to close cooperation with the european parliament to compromise on the third energy package at second reading. the presidency is also ready to continue discussions of the second strategic review with the aim of reflecting its outcomes in the spring council conclusions. finally, in order to boost energy security the eu should strengthen the transparency mechanism and so on. i think the community is prepared for the situation both politically and technically. politically, the presidency, together with the commission and other member states, has invested, and will continue to invest, considerable effort in order to solve the situation. technically, during these recent weeks, we have acted in accordance with the directive concerning measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply. this directive established the gas coordination group, which now proves its value. it requires member states to prepare national emergency measures for this type of situation, sets minimum standards for the security of the gas supply to household consumers, and it prescribes that the gas coordination group should ensure the community coordination. this mechanism has had a considerable effect in mitigating the effects of the crisis. to give you an idea, gas from storage was used and sold to neighbouring countries and even to members of the energy community, alternative fuels were used for electricity production, gas production was increased – including from algerian, norwegian and other russian sources – extra deliveries of gas were made to neighbouring countries. i stop here. i assure you that everything is being done, both at the political level and at the technical level, to incite the ukrainian and russian negotiators to re-install full contractual gas supplies to europe and to minimise the negative consequences to our citizens and economies until that is the case. as you know, we are on the hotlines all day in parliament because time is expiring and we need to have results. if we do not have results, it will inevitably have political consequences in our relations with both countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are currently living through one of the most severe energy crises in european history, comparable with the oil crises that we had in the 1970s and 1980s. the difference is that those oil crises were global while this is very clearly an eu crisis. where are we today? well, in spite of promises made and the protocol signed on monday 12 january 2008 between russian and ukrainian ministers, myself and the two companies involved, russian gas is not yet flowing through ukraine to eu consumers. the commission has fulfilled its part of the deal: providing a european team of monitors to be spread over key places in russia and ukraine to observe the operations and report on their accuracy. we were able to mobilise a team composed of commission officials and industry experts in 24 hours and they were already in russia and ukraine last saturday to enable the flow of gas to resume as soon as the protocol was signed. yesterday russia resumed gas deliveries to ukraine in relatively small quantities that meet less than one third of the normal flow, but decided to use an entry point which, according to the ukrainian company, is difficult to use, and this led ukraine to stop transport. the report of our monitors confirms that it was technically difficult (though not impossible) to ensure the transport under these conditions. today, unfortunately, the same situation occurred and the only solution is for the two parties to ensure full coordination of their technical operations, so that volumes and entry points match the requirements of the gas transport system. if there is no further coordination, there will be no gas supply, and eu monitors and the commission on the spot are trying to encourage both sides to find this technical agreement. at the same time, i do not take sides. i do not want to blame one or the other party. but it is very clear that both parties have lost their reputation as reliable energy partners of the european union. (applause) returning to the history of the last month, i wish to say that the eu reacted promptly, voiced its concerns, and both parties have been constantly urged by the highest-ranking political leaders to restore immediate supplies and to fulfil their obligations. in normal contacts with both parties earlier in the years, knowing from previous experiences that deals are usually struck in the night from 31 december to 1 january, we always reminded them: ‘please find a solution to your bilateral gas issues because it is affecting our transit’. well, unfortunately this was not the case. we know where we are today in spite of all these efforts, and i strongly believe that the solution is in the hands of the two parties. but do they want a solution? the presidency and the commission have called and are still calling on russia and ukraine to resume gas flows immediately. we have done our part. we are genuinely able to provide a full response about where the gas goes: not one cubic metre of gas goes in a different direction without us noticing. i believe that the measures that we have taken are sufficient. but if both parties say that some other measures are necessary, we are ready to consider that, because i also see the lack of coordination and contacts between the two sides. this is the immediate crisis. what next? i know that whatever solution we will find now is temporary, so to restore the credibility of this transport route we will need a long-lasting solution; so the contacts between those parties will definitely be continued during the czech presidency, but will also, unfortunately, have to continue under the swedish presidency. but i believe that we have provided answers for security of supply in the second strategic energy review, in the work parliament and the council have done on the energy and climate change package. these are the solutions provided, and we cannot rely on external suppliers which unfortunately do not honour their contractual obligations and do not take into account consumer interests. but i would like to stress particularly two issues that should be addressed immediately: one is the lack of interconnection. yes, there has been solidarity, but in a lot of cases it was hampered by the lack of sufficient infrastructure to deliver gas from the storage facilities that are there to the places where there is an acute need of gas supply. i believe that the debate on the recovery plan, where infrastructure is also mentioned, is really a good instrument to address these places, because there is not always enough commercial interest to really provide for this type of intervention. second, we definitely missed an opportunity in 2004 when we discussed the gas supply security directive. the instrument which was prepared was weak and did not meet the current needs. we have prepared, and we will shortly be submitting, the new draft proposal on the security of gas supply directive; an impact assessment is being made and in the coming weeks it will be here in parliament. i believe we should react immediately and really find coordinated community mechanisms to respond to this type of crisis. the presidency has really worked very hard and i would like to congratulate the presidency for always taking the lead, with the full support of the commission. i believe that in these difficult times the european union has proved that it is speaking with one voice. the european union is led by the presidency and supported by the commission. but i also very much welcome all the activities that the european parliament carries out, because parliament provides the basis for an agreement. if two parties do not speak at government level, if the companies are trying to play games, which could provide for political stability? it is the broad political basis in ukraine and russia that speaks together, and i would thank mr saryusz-wolski for his activities in providing this exchange of views, and also president pöttering who took part in conciliating both parties. the solution is so easy if they would just talk to each other. so i believe these were very important activities and i very much hope that after today’s meeting in parliament – because it is followed by both sides – there will be additional encouragement to resolve the issue. the party suffering the most is the party that is not responsible for this crisis, the party that has come in to facilitate matters; and this facilitation costs european taxpayers and european consumers money. so i believe it is high time the gas flowed again towards the european union in stable conditions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this major disruption in supply is a dramatic one for european citizens, european industries and european jobs and it comes on top of the economic crisis. we parliamentarians of this house, in our coming european elections, will all have to answer questions about what we have done to protect our industries, our jobs and our citizens. contrary to some initial opinions, the problem concerns political and multilateral entities and is not bilateral and commercial in nature. three years ago, when we witnessed the first gas crisis following russia’s cutting of energy supplies, europe realised its vulnerability and its limitations. already then it became obvious that we need a common eu foreign policy on energy. our group, the ppe-de group, has supported this idea from the very beginning. it was our group which took the lead by asking for an own-initiative report towards a common european foreign policy on energy, which i had the honour to present to this house in september 2007 and which was unanimously supported by all the political groups and adopted almost unanimously. it called for a comprehensive strategy with a precise road map towards a common eu external policy on energy, recommending a number of actions to be taken: in the short term, solidarity mechanisms, unity in defending our interests, more efficient energy diplomacy; and, in the medium term, diversification including nabucco, storage, investments and interconnections. some of our recommendations have been addressed – albeit belatedly – in the commission’s second strategic energy review. we welcome this and also the efforts of the czech presidency to solve the current crisis and to mediate between the two sides. however, this is not enough if we are to avoid similar situations in the future, and this will only be possible if we equip ourselves with a truly common eu energy security policy and solidarity, which would offer lasting, sustainable and systemic solutions. it means the combined weight of member states, represented by the european commission, in negotiations, and a single eu voice vis-à-vis our partners, be they producers or transit countries. meanwhile, we could envisage buying gas directly from russia at the russian-ukrainian border. i have two questions for the president-in-office and the commission. commissioner piebalgs and deputy prime minister vondra, could you elaborate on the scenario of the eu stepping in and taking over responsibility, with the ukraine, for the transit? secondly, what pressure instruments does the eu possess? what action could we take in response? our group would expect the presidency and the commission to undertake swift and radical actions and measures vis-à-vis our energy partners, russia and ukraine, to restore gas supplies. our group will ask parliament to be closely and permanently involved, even during the campaign and until the elections. i would inform you that we have established a contact group between the european parliament, the russian parliament and the ukrainian parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the gas crisis in europe is permanent and much deeper than the european political elites are making it out to be. it must be emphasized that this is not purely an economic issue. this is primarily a political crisis, based on europe's inability to respond to putin's aggressive policies. let's not kid ourselves russia isn't just about a few dollars. the events of the past few days have been fueled by the kremlin's aggressive actions to expand its dominance in central and eastern europe. ukraine is of strategic importance to the russians not only because of the gas pipeline to europe that runs through its territory, but also because the russian black sea fleet is stationed in sevastopol. the lease of this base expires in 2017, but few believe that after this date the russians will voluntarily leave crimea. so behind gazprom's demands is the kremlin's entire political-military machine, which is designed to discredit and weaken the ukrainian government in order to bring ukraine to its knees. unfortunately, because of europe's passive attitude, putin is getting closer to that goal.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you down. in an agreement signed last october, prime ministers yulia tymoshenko and vladimir putin confirmed their readiness to transition within three years in gas transactions and fees for gas transmission and storage to world prices. this agreement was supported by a formal agreement between gazprom and naftogaz of ukraine. however, gazprom has recently been pushing for a price surge to an unrealistically high level. this kind of price blackmail is possible due to gazprom's monopolistic position in ukraine. many countries in the european union are in a similar situation. this means that unlike oil, there is no free market in europe today for gas. in the united states, the price of gas has recently dropped to $198 per 1000 m3, and gazprom is demanding $450 from ukraine. this situation must be changed, not only by increasing the diversification of gas suppliers, but also by expanding the transmission network within the european union and between neighbouring countries, so that there is a genuine pan-european gas market, as in the case of oil, which reduces the possibility of monopolistic price blackmail.
mr. chairman, please! this gas crisis is a reminder of how much the european union should speak with one voice on gas supply, especially gas from russia, which is not a reliable supplier and partner. in july last year, the european parliament adopted a report by the committee on petitions, which i had drawn up, in which we made it clear that the question of energy and gas supplies to europe is not a matter of bilateral relations. this was the case with the northern russia-germany gas pipeline. i am now calling on the commission, and also on the presidency, to ensure that the european union speaks with one voice and that this is a matter of eu-russia relations, not bilateral relations. i call on you to do all those things that were stated in the report of 8 july last year, which called for the european union to be integrated in a real, genuine way.
mr. chairman, please! some politicians take sides in the gas dispute. we don't know the details of the situation. the eu observers are helpless. all we know is that we're dealing with unsuspecting actors. the current situation also demonstrates the european union's faulty energy policy. alternative ideas, such as the construction of nuclear power plants, are not supported. it's fighting coal under the guise of ecology. the only alternative was to make central europe dependent on the east, as was the case with poor slovakia.
mr. chairman, please! the union has been successful in combating global warming. all it took was a resolution to make it happen. they managed to bring down the temperature in europe and bring on a winter that covered the entire continent. it is a testament to the union's strength and efficiency, in keeping with the principle of 'will to power'. success turns into failure, because more heat is needed in homes and workplaces. this is not what the officials had in mind. the european union's energy policy is beginning to resemble that of the doctor in the novel by haška "the adventures of the good soldier swejka". for every disease, he had one treatment, and that was an enema. and the european union is limited to verbal declarations, conferences, and above all to making concessions to russia, which has caused russia to dare to use energy resources as a tool of political pressure. not only that, but it's gained an ally in germany, with whom it's building a pipeline across the baltic. the conclusion is clear: we must achieve independence from russian gas supplies without delay and do so on the basis of the principle of 'the weakest link first', i.e. rescuing the border states which are totally dependent on gas supplies from the east, such as poland and the baltic states, unless the european union gives priority to the private interests and advantages of those who represent russia.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you down. the russian withdrawal of gas supplies to european union customers is unacceptable from the point of view of the contractual obligations signed by russia. european customers pay for russian gas on time and have the right to expect timely deliveries regardless of disputes between russia and ukraine. prime minister putin's decision to stop the deliveries, taken in front of the tv cameras, is not only a violation of the signed contracts, but also confirms that gazprom is not a company operating on market principles, but a company that pursues the political goals of the kremlin. our discussion here, mr. chairman, should send a clear signal to both russia and ukraine that gas supplies must be restored immediately. i also want to say that i am disappointed with the behavior of the ukrainian side. the lack of an agreement with russia, unclear rules on the settlement of gas through intermediaries and political struggle at the highest levels of government compromise ukraine in the eyes of the public and hinder the realization of the european aspirations of the state. i deeply regret this, because ukraine is our important neighbour and strategic partner. the current gas crisis is a final confirmation that europe must take care of its energy security itself. we cannot tolerate any more inaction. i call on the european commission, commissioner, to present legislative initiatives without delay which will allow the necessary diversification of energy sources, ensure energy solidarity real and not pretend and lead to the interconnection of the national gas transmission systems of the individual member states.
madam president! if the customer pays according to the contract, then he fulfils his obligations. russia is responsible for the crisis and there should be sanctions, commissioner. there's ukraine on the way, of course. if russia does not accept the european direction of ukraine, then it must deal with it itself, as it must deal with the loss of political influence on the countries of the soviet bloc. the world is changing, and you just have to accept it. on the stage of europe's de-gasification, russia is acting as if it doesn't care about selling us this product. at least that's how he shows himself. i think that for the sake of its economy and its people, russia should take care of this market and its image as a reliable partner. i would stress that the interdependence of the two parties is perhaps the most important feature of this contract and cooperation. finally, madam president, i think the russians will discover the truth and europe will learn from russia and be a good mediator.
in writing. much has been said in today's debate about the problems of gas supply, interconnections, interconnections and interdependencies in european economies. we must learn from the current crisis. it's worth considering the yamal ii project as a rational and in our interest. it's not only better than a pipeline across the baltic to germany bypassing poland, but it strengthens our energy security. if the yamal ii pipeline is completed, it will mean much more gas transit through poland to europe and it is a much cheaper and more advantageous solution than the nord stream pipeline, and in addition it can be built much faster. i believe that this is the direction in which work should be directed towards ensuring energy security for all eu member states.
in writing. the current crisis in gas supplies to ukraine and the european union seems to be of much greater significance than previous crises, linked to the same problem of russia's monopolistic position in the gas supply market to the union. because this crisis allows us to understand the real meaning of concepts and terms that we often use, but don't always understand. i am referring to energy security, eu solidarity, a common energy policy and the diversification of sources and modes of supply of gas and other energy sources. today, we don't even need to understand russia's true motives to draw conclusions. of course, knowing the motives is important for moral and political judgments of the actions of individual countries and companies. however, invariably, and irrespective of the motivations of the parties to the dispute, as a result of the situation, some of the inhabitants of the european union were exposed to the painful effects of the lack of gas. the truth is important, but it's not a substitute for gas. let's use this to seriously answer a few questions. can we draw the right conclusions from the current situation? can we rise above the short-sighted perspective of, for example, political parties that are currently in opposition and cynically exploiting the situation to unjustifiably attack their own national governments? will the nabucco pipeline be built? will we increase the size of the mandatory fuel reserves? will ideological opponents of nuclear power reconsider their attitude? i hope so.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lessons of the current gas crisis are clear. the european union must learn from it. this is another eclipse, and it should be the last, exposing the helplessness of 27 countries! this is what the people of europe expect. even in those countries that are not directly affected by the gas blockade and are not heavily dependent on gazprom's supplies. the solidarity mechanism, poorly defined in the 2004 directive, is totally unsuited to today's challenges. the need to agree on a practical community policy of solidarity, security and diversification in the energy sector is essential. it's not about the slogans. we need to invest in infrastructure. the crisis buffer in the form of gas storage capacity needs to be increased. energy solidarity requires the creation of cross-border interconnectors linking the transmission networks of individual countries. this is very visible in poland as a country that is mainly supplied by gas pipelines from russia, excluding ukraine, and therefore less exposed during the current crisis, but is also cut off from the transmission and storage system of western europe. we are concerned that the current crisis is a result of a decreased credibility of ukraine, not only russia. this is no less a significant effect of the gas war than the temporary problems of the recipients during the cold winter!
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the issue of the crisis in gas supplies to the eu, ukraine and the balkans should be seen primarily as part of the political and economic influence game in the former soviet republics. the country that is being fought over is ukraine. russia has joined the election campaign that has begun in that country. it was a way of showing the ukrainian people that if they stayed with russia, ukraine would have cheap gas and oil. the current conflict also shows that russia values its geopolitical influence more than good relations with the eu. russia also took into account the economic costs of the closure of gas supplies. so don't be fooled - this is just the beginning of the game of influence in ukraine. the european union, in its fundamental blindness, still wants to rely on imported gas and oil for its energy. the resources of coal and lignite (e.g. in poland) are thus to remain untapped. i do not know whether this is political stupidity or a matter of maintaining energy influence over certain countries of the community.
president-in-office of the council. − in the new member states you have different conditions. for example, my country does not have as many small farms as in certain other european countries. we have a very competitive farming industry with large farms but, if you go to neighbouring poland, for example, the situation is somewhat different. on mrs doyle’s question of how we are doing: well, i have some farmers in my constituency in northern bohemia and, on the one hand, they are doing better because they got more money. so we have farmers with hugo boss ties now. we did not have this five to ten years ago. on the other hand, they also feel some kind of injustice because of the differences in payments between the older member states and the new member states. it is a question of elementary justice in the system, and it should be corrected. at the same time, we believe that the cap should be reformed. this is the only way to keep europe competitive. so we have here a complex problem. i am not an expert who can go into the details, but i think that we should at least be able to agree on the basic lines.
president-in-office of the council. − i was trying to respond to both questions.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the horn of africa.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, at this late hour i wish to make a few remarks on the council’s position on the horn of africa. the horn of africa of course is a challenging region which deserves our particular and increased attention as it has a major impact on the eu. the eu closely follows developments in this region and prepares to engage even more with the countries of the horn of africa. i know that parliament also keeps abreast of developments. the visit that your delegation made late last year to eritrea and ethiopia and also djibouti was important. i also took note of the motion for a resolution on the horn of africa that has been elaborated partly in the context of this visit. it clearly displayed to the region and to europeans the growing engagement for the horn of africa within the eu. on behalf of the council, i welcome the involvement of parliament in our efforts to address the challenges in the horn of africa. there are several sources of tension in the horn of africa. i will get to them in more detail. however, in the view of the council these tensions are often linked in one way or another within the region. for this reason, the council is particularly looking to discern the regional links between ongoing conflicts. what are these links between conflicts? first, there is a dispute between ethiopia and eritrea, which might be considered as one of the principle causes of instability in the whole region. this is reflected in the following ways: the support of opposing warring factions in somalia; destabilisation efforts in each other’s countries – let me mention ogaden, oromo in ethiopia in particular; it is reflected also in support for the revival of the peace process in sudan; eritrea has suspended its membership in the intergovernmental authority for development (igad). and, last but not least, the conflict in somalia has caused one of the most serious humanitarian situations that we face in the world today. the increase in acts of piracy off the coast of somalia is another serious consequence of this conflict. another serious issue is the competition for natural resources such as water and minerals in the horn of africa. this phenomenon increases pastoralist conflicts in areas populated by different cultural and ethnic groups. it also increases food insecurity and human insecurity in general, which contributes to the conflict and the migration. there are also serious regional interdependencies. let me mention some of them. there are the border conflicts, as mentioned before: the disputes between ethiopia and eritrea, sudan and ethiopia and djibouti and eritrea, which might be considered as sources of instability in the region. i would also stress that improved regional cooperation would contribute to lowering tensions around national boundaries. food security is another interdependency. this is of course a major concern in the region. recurring droughts, as well as floods, have a devastating effect on the population. once again, regional cooperation could mitigate the effects of these natural events. as you know, some argue that this problem is at the origin of the conflicts in darfur, somalia and many other areas of the horn of africa. i am not sure that gives a full explanation, but i do believe that this question must be resolved in each of the countries and within the regional context in a fair and transparent manner. piracy was initially localised to a small part of the somali coast. the pretext of the pirates was to levy a fishing tax on a ship in somali waters. as you are certainly well aware, this activity has expanded significantly and now threatens the delivery of humanitarian aid to somalia and maritime safety in the gulf of aden and well beyond, including ships travelling off the coast of kenya and tanzania. there are also several other interdependencies which have a serious impact on europe and on the countries of the horn of africa, such as terrorism and migration. so what are the actions which the european union undertakes? what is our engagement or involvement? the main political instrument at the disposal of the council – which i have the honour to represent here today – is a political dialogue, not only with the individual countries but also with other regional stakeholders, such as the african union, the intergovernmental authority on development, the league of arab states, and the united states and china as important countries. political dialogue is a mutual commitment in the cotonou agreement between the eu and each of the countries in that particular region. this dialogue is principally pursued through the heads of the eu missions in the countries concerned. it is a very important instrument to the council, as it gives us a direct contact with the authorities of those countries. it provides an opportunity to hear their point of view, but also to clearly explain our perceptions and raise concerns that we have on certain issues. this particularly concerns matters of governance and human rights. those are the main issues. on top of this, the council disposes of the instruments of the european security and defence policy (esdp). since september 2008, the council has deployed this instrument to fight piracy off the somali coast, first through the coordination cell eu navco, based in brussels and then since december 2008 through the maritime operation called eu navfor atalanta. finally, the eu acts through the financial instruments of the european commission such as the african peace facility and instrument of stability. i will let commissioner ferrero-waldner elaborate further on that because that is the commission’s responsibility. of course the council is always looking, together with the european commission, for ways to enhance the effectiveness and the visibility of eu action. i look forward to hearing your proposals and recommendations on this particular issue.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has over recent years already called for greater attention to be given by the european union to the situation in the horn of africa. today in this debate i am replacing my colleague louis michel, who unfortunately cannot be here; i take this matter on with great interest, both in its own right and also because it affects europe directly – the need, for instance, to mobilise our navies to combat piracy, and this is only one recent example. we therefore very strongly welcome the initiative of the parliamentary delegation which visited the region and their subsequent report and draft resolution, which we also support in principle. the internal situation in each of the countries of the horn cannot be understood in isolation from the regional dynamics. we have to continue to encourage a global approach resting on economic development, governance and security if we want to advance regional stability, respect for the essential and fundamental elements of cotonou and the fight against poverty. let me comment on the situation by country before concluding with remarks on the regional strategy for the horn. firstly, let me say a word on ethiopia/eritrea. ethiopia occupies a strategic economic and political place in the region. the commission continues to support ethiopia with its poverty alleviation efforts, where important progress has been registered. weak regional security and inter-community tensions affect the internal situation of the country, especially in the ogaden, where access to the population still remains constrained. the commission will also continue to monitor the human rights situation and the democratisation process. considering the circumstances of the 2005 general elections, the commission will closely monitor the preparation and proceeding of the 2010 elections, especially in the context of the recently approved ngo legislation and the re-arrest of the opposition leader, ms birtukan medeksa. the internal situation in eritrea is partly determined by the impasse in the border conflict with ethiopia. the commission remains seriously concerned about human rights violations and the precarious social and economic situation. in our view, there is a strong argument for the continuance of a cooperation programme which aims at the improvement of the living conditions of the population. the political dialogue initiated in 2008 provides a good platform for sustained engagement with the eritrean authorities. let us be clear: we expect some positive and tangible steps in eritrea as a result of this process. as indicated in your draft resolution, the virtual demarcation of the border between ethiopia and eritrea – as decided by the boundary commission – will not lead to a full resolution of the problem if it is not accompanied by dialogue aiming at the normalisation of relations between the two countries. the recent dispute between eritrea and djibouti is to be seen in a larger regional context and for which a global solution needs to be sought through local and regional actors. we will continue to support such processes. now that ethiopian troops are withdrawing from somalia, the cooperation of both ethiopia and eritrea in the somali peace process will be essential for it to be successful. on the situation in sudan, i fully share parliament’s analysis. indeed, 2009 is a decisive year for the future of this country. the persistence of violence in darfur and the difficulties in completing the implementation of the north/south comprehensive peace agreement (cpa) have the potential to destabilise the country and affect the whole region. we should therefore maintain a strong dialogue with, and a strong pressure on, the khartoum authorities to obtain their full cooperation, both on the cpa and also on darfur and their processes. these authorities, as well as the other sudanese stakeholders, know only too well where their responsibilities lie and what they need to deliver. in darfur, military operations and violence must be ended and the political process fully resumed. the deployment of the unamid must take place within the foreseen time. the sudanese authorities must respect their obligations as regards the facilitation of humanitarian aid and human rights activities. on the cpa, it is crucial that the government of khartoum and of south sudan settle their differences over critical issues such as sharing of oil revenues, boundary delimitation, and legislation in security and political matters. failing to do so could turn the planned elections of 2009 into a scenario of renewed violence and conflict. in somalia, the peace process is in a crucial phase. the resignation of president yusuf and the withdrawal of the ethiopian army present a new period of uncertainty and risk. but they also provide an opportunity to launch an inclusive political process. on the political side, the european union continues its activities in support of the djibouti process, which should lead to more inclusiveness through the election of a new president and the formation of a government of national unity with an expanded parliament. there is no plan b for the djibouti process. without international and regional support that advances the emergence of favourable conditions for its implementation, the agreement will have little chance of success. as regards security, the commission remains committed to supporting the establishment of a system for the sound governance of the security sector. whatever the nature of the international force (un authorised stabilisation force, un peacekeeping mission or only a strengthened amisom), its mandate will need to focus on the support for the implementation of the djibouti agreement. the commission has given a positive response to the demand for further financial support to the reinforcement of amisom. finally, on the horn of africa in general, i very much appreciate parliament’s support for the commission’s horn of africa initiative. this initiative is based on the 2006 horn strategy, which was adopted in the conviction that the conundrums in the region can only be dealt with globally. in this spirit, the commission supports your proposal to nominate a special representative for the horn. we have been establishing good working relations with igad, which supports the horn of africa initiative and which plays a key role in its implementation. a second joint experts’ meeting on water, energy and transport, where concrete projects could be developed that might be presented to a possible donor conference, is foreseen for the near future. the participation of eritrea, which plays a key role in the regional dynamics, is essential for the success of the horn of africa strategy. commissioner michel’s contacts with the heads of state and government of the region, including president isaias, have allowed an opening in this regard and the new igad executive secretary is in the process of engaging with the eritrean authorities, including on the reform and revitalisation process of igad. mr president, i was a little long but with so many countries, if you want to say something, you have to say at least a few words.
the introduction is covered by a special rule and there are no limits.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, prime minister, i have to go. i would like to thank you very much for the statement by the council and the commission on the horn of africa. the importance of this region goes beyond its purely geographical boundaries. the conflicts and structural problems that exist there reinforce the negative phenomena that exist in other regions of africa. i was part of the european parliament delegation that was mentioned here and that recently visited the region, and i was able to see how complex, complex and interconnected the problems there are, and therefore our response must be comprehensive. in the draft resolution we are focusing on three fundamental but very broad issues: regional security, food security and provisions covering human rights, democracy and good governance. after this visit, i have no doubt that the basic condition for improving the situation is goodwill and dialogue between regional leaders. the european union's policy of strengthening regional institutions in the horn of africa is a good one, but without the active participation of key stakeholders, it will be ineffective. some countries in the region are adopting bad tactics, for example, you cannot call for dialogue with one of your neighbours and at the same time deny yourself dialogue with another neighbour such tactics are illogical and in practice make it impossible to achieve diplomatic successes. political leaders should accept that power comes with responsibility. what we are asking of the leaders of the horn of africa is not an expectation that is tied to some of our special european values. what we're looking for is a minimum acceptance of universal values. we believe that fundamental rights and freedoms belong to everyone. in today's world, no developing country can function well if it rejects these basic, universal values. their acceptance is therefore not a gesture towards the european union but an act in a well-defined self-interest. the concepts of development may differ, but the values cannot change, and we want these values to become the common, universal bread and butter of the horn of africa.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, firstly, allow me to react to two remarks made here and then draw some conclusions. olle schmidt and eva-britt svensson asked about the journalist, dawit isaak: yes, we are trying to do something in eritrea to set him free. anna-maria gomes asked about the recent arrest of the opposition activist mrs bertukan. the council is certainly aware of this case, which dates back to the post-election riots in 2005 when she was arrested, together with other opposition activists, before being pardoned in 2007. she was re-arrested at the end of the year. since then the eu has been closely following the case, and the council is ready to take the appropriate steps if the situation requires. then i would like to make five short concluding remarks. first let me say that we really appreciate the input of the delegations that travelled to the region, in particular to mr hutchinson, mr kaczmarek and mr irujo amezaga. first i think i can assure you that, under the czech presidency, there will be continuity. so we certainly are not going to completely redefine the eu strategy towards the horn of africa. we will rather try to pursue the policy established by our predecessor in the best possible manner. one of the most important tasks will be the containment of piracy and, in this context, we strongly appreciate the effort of the french presidency that accomplished the difficult start of deploying the first eu naval mission. certainly, we are not a naval power in the czech republic so we appreciate here strong eu engagement. my second remark is that the short-term operation atalanta has already prevented several acts of piracy from taking place and apprehended a number of pirates, so within a month of deployment the effectiveness of the operation has already become apparent. atalanta is a short-term measure to curb piracy. however, it was a necessary short-term measure. the third point is that, in order to find a long-term solution in somalia, the council lends its full support to the djibouti process within the transitional federal government and the alliance for the re-liberation of somalia, and there is no plan b to this process. ethiopia has begun its withdrawal from somalia; this is an important step in the implementation of the djibouti process. there are some concerns that there will be a security vacuum when ethiopia leaves; the eu therefore continues to give substantial support to the african union mission to somalia, the amisom. eur 20 million have been allocated for the period of december 2008 to may 2009. my fourth point is regarding direct contacts: we foresee resuming political dialogue with the intergovernmental authority on development at ministerial level. the authority on development proved its capacities during the engagement in sudanese peace talks, which resulted in the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement in 2005. so the authority might become a key partner of the eu in bringing peace and stability to somalia. last but not least, as regards the matter of more engagement, i would like to inform you that revision of the horn of africa strategy of the commission will be initiated during our presidency, which is not in contradiction of my words on continuity.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me make a few comments on this short, but important, debate. firstly, on somalia, i listened with great interest to all your comments and suggestions and i am encouraged to see that we agree, not only on the assessment of the situation, but also on the action to be taken. we need the support of the entire international community, including the new us administration, but also key players in the islamic world, for a sustainable, political solution in somalia and to finally end the unspeakable suffering of the population. here the commission will provide full political, but also strong financial, support to the djibouti process. i agree with ana maria gomes that the countries of the horn of africa have serious human-rights and good-governance problems – many other colleagues have also said this. we are very concerned about these tremendous challenges. however, we consider that it would be difficult to make an across-the-board judgement regarding article 9 of the cotonou agreement. we must stand firm on human rights and good governance, fully utilising the policy instruments at our disposal, including a political dialogue with clear benchmarks. on food aid and food security, this is one of the priorities of the european parliament resolution. in this context, i would like to emphasise that, in addition to the envelope of the edf, there are now funds under the so-called food facility, which will be eur 100 million from 2009 to 2011. finally, we are also fully aware of the situation of the swedish citizen, dawit isaak, who is still under arrest in eritrea. my colleague louis michel talked to president isaias about this case during his last visit in june 2008, and some further quiet diplomacy is going on in this particular case. i can assure you that we remain committed to working towards the improvement of the human rights situation in eritrea so that it is very dominant in our minds.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 january 2009.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the european union strategy towards belarus.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the situation in belarus and what we should do and how we can help will, i think, without doubt be at the centre of the council’s attention during the czech presidency. let me start here on a positive note. we have noted with satisfaction the steps taken by belarus in the past few weeks, including the registration of the ‘for freedom’ movement, the printing and distribution of independent newspapers like narodnaya volya or nasha niva, the round table on the regulation of internet with the osce representative on freedom of the media and the announcement of the start of expert consultations with osce/odihr on improving electoral legislation. these steps go towards fulfilling the criteria expressed by the eu as a condition for maintaining the suspension of the visa ban beyond the initial six-month period. the eu has stressed the importance of moving on these issues in its contact with the belarus administration. ahead of the sanction review – where we have to take a decision by early april – we will continue to use all political contacts, including bilateral contacts, to encourage belarus to move forward on the problematic points which were identified in the council conclusions of 13 october with further substantial steps. as a further sign of encouragement, our presidency intends to hold another foreign minister troika with belarus on the margin of the january general affairs and external relations council. we will also continue to monitor the general situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country, with a special emphasis on the regulatory environment of ngos and the media. we are also closely discussing and exchanging views and information with the various opposition representatives and other persons in belarus, people like mr alexander milinkievich, mr kosolin and others. belarus, as we know, is included as one of the six eastern partnership countries, a move aimed at creating positive development trends in our eastern european neighbourhood. the participation of belarus will depend on its domestic development. we plan to launch the eastern partnership at summit level in prague in may and the decision of the day was also selected just when this six-month period ends and we can make an evaluation. so the issue of whether mr lukashenko will be invited is one where no decision has been made yet. we firmly believe that we need to be constructive with minsk now; let us say, that is a strategic imperative. we of course remain realistic and do not expect any dramatic changes, but we believe that mr lukashenko’s search for balancing relations with moscow can provide an opportunity. but also we are a community of certain shared values and we need to keep the leverage in our hands. it is in our joint interest to use this opportunity to further encourage the positive dynamics in belarus in this respect.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to speak to you about belarus because positive progress has been made, which we were very happy to see. belarus is very high on our agenda, but not solely because it is one of the countries hit hard by the current financial crisis in the region. there is also a unique opportunity for us to really begin a new chapter in our relationship with belarus. we are now half-way through the six-month suspension of sanctions against belarus that was the decided at the meeting of eu foreign ministers on 13 october 2008. as this suspension will end on 13 april 2009, now is the time to make the first assessment of whether belarus is moving in the right direction and whether we can therefore extend the suspension and take further positive action towards belarus. the 13 october general affairs and external relations council was very clear that the positive progress which began with the release of the remaining political prisoners in august would have to continue for the suspension to be extended. the areas in which we need to see further and sustained progress are: no further political arrests or imprisonments; cooperation with the osce/odihr on reforms to electoral legislation; progress on media freedom; better operational conditions for ngos and no harassment of civil society; and serious progress on the freedom of assembly. we have seen some progress in the last three months. for example, the ban on two major independent newspapers has been lifted and they have now even resumed printing and distribution. secondly, ‘for freedom’, mr milinkievich’s organisation, has been allowed registration and, thirdly, there will be consultations between belarus and the odihr on 22 january on electoral reform. this progress has been in direct response to requests made by the commission in early november and we find it encouraging. however, we still need more progress if we are to begin a new era in our relationship and if we are also to confirm the suspension. we need to see progress on media freedom, including internet freedom and the accreditation of foreign journalists. we also need to see easier registration procedures and working conditions for ngos and the lifting of the restrictions on the freedom of ngo activists – like, for example, mr barazenka – and we need to see further evidence that peaceful demonstrations can take place freely and without participants fearing arrest. progress is, however, a two-way street. if belarus can make this serious progress, then i think it is also essential that we reciprocate with a significant package of measures. the commission has been working on proposals for such a package, which could include the following: an extension of the technical dialogues which began a year ago, on energy, transport and environment to other areas; a symbolic increase in the enpi allocation for belarus to back these talks; helping belarus to adjust to the new economic challenges it is currently facing and extending eligibility for eib and ebrd loans to belarus; intensifying contacts: on 26 january the troika will meet with foreign minister martynov on the margins of the gaerc, where i intend to say clearly to mr martynov what exactly the eu expects from belarus and what we have on offer; and, naturally, intensification of civil society dialogue. at this juncture, i believe all efforts should be pooled and meetings that meps could have in minsk with belarusian parliamentarians, for example, would also be most useful. a further issue for reflection is the potential to open negotiations on visa facilitation and a readmission agreement. on this issue, the ball is in the council’s court, and it is clear that belarus still has further progress to make. but we, the commission, stand ready to kick-start work and contribute to negotiations as soon as the ministers acknowledge that sufficient progress has been made. finally, we stand ready to develop the full range of our enp and eastern partnership offer for belarus. this would comprise the unblocking of the pca and a significant increase in our assistance. after 13 april, should ministers assess that sufficient progress has been made, the decision will be made as to whether to confirm the suspension of sanctions. should belarus’s progress be great enough to warrant this, we are indeed ready to reciprocate and i hope that we could then really open up a new chapter in relations with belarus.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, prime minister, i have to tell you that i am very sorry. the immediate reason for today's debate is, of course, that this week marks the halfway point of the six-month suspension of sanctions against belarus. in assessing the state of relations between belarus and the european union at the end of this period, our parliament intends to assess the changes taking place in belarus positively, albeit cautiously. first of all, we are pleased that the movement "for freedom" led by aleksandar milinkiewicz has been legalized and that two independent newspapers "narodnaja wola" and "nasza niwa" have been legalized and allowed into the state distribution system. at the same time, we condemn the failure to restore full civil rights to political prisoners released last year and the abuse of detention in preparation for trial of one of the student protesters. we would like to stress that for the permanent lifting of sanctions and the normalization of eu-belarus relations, it is crucial to change the electoral law, to withdraw from the restrictive media law and to change the criminal code in such a way that it is impossible to abuse it in the fight against the democratic opposition and independent journalists. in this context, we encourage the belarusian authorities to cooperate more closely with the osce and the belarusian association of journalists. we appreciate that preliminary consultations on both these issues have already taken place, but we urge continued cooperation with foreign experts and representatives of belarusian civil society. in the resolution we are debating today, we also intend to call on the belarusian authorities not to restrict the activities of political parties and ngos and to legalise further independent media, but this will not be a unilateral call. at the same time, we call on the european commission and the council to reduce visa fees for entry into the european union more quickly and to increase the european investment bank's investment in energy infrastructure, especially transit infrastructure, in the country. i would like to stress that parliament will again call on the european commission to provide adequate financial support to the television station bielsat and on the belarusian authorities to recognise that the only legal representation of the largest national minority in this country is the union of poles in belarus, led by angelica borys.
the mp is a little busy, but he managed to get in at the last minute to speak.
on behalf of the alde group. there are not always clear signals coming from belarus. political prisoners were released, two independent newspapers were allowed to use distribution networks, and the "for freedom" movement, led by the opposition candidate for the office of president of the republic, aleksandr milinkievich, was registered. that's what the commissioner said. on the other hand, there are repeated arrests of opposition figures, and many of those released from prison have had their freedom restricted in various ways. a dozen newspapers are waiting for licenses similar to those granted to the two newspapers mentioned above, and many ngos and political parties are still struggling to gain or lose registration. remove the priests and the nuns, maintain the death penalty. but we cannot turn our backs on belarus. however, i do not think that there is any need for a dialogue between representatives of our parliament and representatives of the belarusian parliament today. first of all, as the european parliament has repeatedly said in its resolutions, there must be a significant reduction in the cost and simplification of the procedures for issuing visas to belarusian citizens. this cannot, of course, apply to those who, for good reasons, should not be allowed to enter the countries of the european union. the institutions that are important for the existence and development of civil society, such as independent non-governmental organisations, political parties and independent press, must also be effectively supported, including financially. the issue of workers' rights in belarus must also be raised. today, there is no permanent employment outside the power structures everyone works on the basis of annual contracts only. this gives the employer, the state, a huge leverage, allowing almost the entire population to be completely subjugated. the eastern partnership initiative also opens up new opportunities for the belarusian authorities today. the process of modernising the country and bringing it closer to european political standards should, however, be carried out in dialogue between the authorities and the belarusian democratic opposition.
on behalf of the uen group. commissioner, mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we've been passing resolutions on belarus every quarter lately. but this is not inflation, it is rather a good indicator of a kind of monitoring of what is happening in the country neighboring poland, and therefore with the european union. is the progress of democratization in belarus satisfactory? no, i'm not going. is that a reason to turn your back on minsk again? no, i'm not going. we must persist in talking about democratic freedoms, standards, freedom of speech, democratic values, but equally patiently continue to light the green light for belarus as a country and a society that we want to see closer and closer to the european union. because belarusians are europeans, and belarus is an integral part of the old continent, and belarusian culture is part of european culture. today, the noblest belarusians are fighting for human rights, democracy, religious freedom. but let's not put these less noble belarusians in moscow's hands. that would be unimaginative, that would be stupid, that would be irresponsible, that would be worse than a crime, that would be a mistake. we need to do two things at once: we need to watch lukashenko's hands so that he doesn't persecute, for example, catholic priests from poland, he doesn't close newspapers, he doesn't condemn oppositionists, but we also need to support the belarusian state as such so that it doesn't become more and more part of russia's political, economic and military sphere of influence.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i would like to welcome the presence of mr alexander vondra, the minister, in the european parliament's debate tonight. i think this shows the role that the czech presidency plays in the external policy of the european union. we are analysing today the european union's strategy towards belarus, we are analysing the strategy of opening up that we have been dealing with for the last few months. i think the balance sheet of this strategy is positive as the draft report of the european parliament also indicates. a permanent representation of the european commission was established in minsk. there are positive signs of the expansion of the sphere of freedom in belarus, such as the registration of the civil movement of alexander milinkievich "for freedom" and the publication and registration of two independent newspapers "narodnaja volicija" and "nasnaja niva". i also have in mind the statement by the belarusian foreign minister siarhei martynov on belarus' positive attitude towards participation in the eu's eastern partnership initiative. finally, i would also like to point out that the belarusian authorities have not accepted the self-proclaimed declarations of the authorities of south ossetia and abkhazia concerning the state nature of these structures. these are good signs, which no doubt also stem from the european union's attitude towards belarus. of course, this is what our draft resolution says: we are still dealing with restrictions on human rights and personal freedoms in belarus. this is not liberal democracy in the european sense of the word. i fully agree with the scenario presented today by commissioner ferrero-waldner, that such indefinite lifting of sanctions could be possible if belarus expands its sphere of freedom, the sphere of civil liberties and the liberalisation of its economy. the european union's increased presence in belarus, in my view, guarantees the further liberalisation and democratisation of the country.
i just want to point out that the council representative is always present in these debates, so it's not a special occasion, mr. ambassador, but of course we appreciate the presence of prime minister vondra.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's relations with belarus are dependent on both sides. if there is a common good will, there will be dialogue, a proper neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. partnerships cannot be built by means of injunctions and bans, and i therefore welcome the european commission's recent initiatives to improve relations with belarus. objectively, belarus has done a lot to promote the agreement. this is evidenced, among other things, by the registration of the freedom movement, the authorisation to print and distribute opposition newspapers, and the opening up to the eastern partnership initiative. the union has higher expectations, which is of course justified, but the justification also has many expectations from belarus. in many areas, symmetry and understanding of the partner is needed. for example, if the belarusian authorities are being urged to stop issuing exit visas to citizens, especially children and students, why is the european union not simplifying and liberalizing visa procedures for belarusian citizens? these problems are particularly important for us, the inhabitants of border regions, culturally, family-related (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has repeatedly addressed the issue of belarus, the last dictatorship on the european continent. the catholic priests continue to be prevented from exercising their pastoral ministry, and the rights of national minorities are not respected. in particular, it does not recognise the democratically elected authorities of the union of poles in belarus, headed by angelica borys. arrest and searches of offices of opposition activists and representatives of human rights organisations continue. independent journalists are being persecuted. however, change is coming, albeit very slowly. the freedom movement was registered and the printing and distribution of two opposition newspapers was allowed. the belarusian foreign minister welcomed the eastern partnership initiative and expressed interest in participating in it. this gives cautious hope of improving the climate in mutual relations and of implementing the commissioner's proposal.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the gradual resumption of relations with belarus and the readiness to engage in dialogue with the belarusian authorities is a step in the right direction. i also welcome the announcement today by the czech presidency that it will meet the representative of belarus in the council at the level of heads of state or government later this month. i also welcome the attempts to include belarus in the eastern partnership initiative. decisions at union level should primarily concern the residents of belarus, for example in the area of visa policy. in the current days of the european gas crisis, it should be emphasised that belarus is proving to be a very stable partner in terms of gas transit to the european union. it is in the interest of both sides to have constructive dialogue and to improve bilateral relations, which must of course be based on the principles of democracy and respect for the rights of nations.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. we all here in this chamber would like to see belarus uphold the principles of democracy, human rights and freedom of association and expression, and to see an end to the persecution and violence against its own citizens and national minorities. unfortunately, our wish list is quite long, and it seems unlikely that it will be fulfilled any time soon. but we cannot stop fighting for the values on which the european union is founded. the sanctions policy against belarus was basically a failure in the first period. hopefully, the change of the eu's political strategy towards minsk will be successful, but it will not be easy, given the fact that the autumn parliamentary elections in 2008 were rigged by lukashenka. the main path to democratization of belarusian society is through education, free media and contacts between the people of the union and belarus. let us create a special scholarship programme for belarusian youth to study in the union, and this will bring tangible benefits in the future.
it is time to make a summary of the discussion. i call on deputy prime minister vondra to sum up.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i will try to summarise this on behalf of the council. firstly, i think we have had a really interesting debate on the substance, certainly bringing a lot of input into our common work. i would like to stress that we in the council appreciate the interest and active engagement of the european parliament on belarus. i think it is particularly helpful in keeping up the pressure on human rights issues, on the one hand, and in not losing this kind of strategic approach on the other. i would particularly like to thank the polish members of the european parliament – be it jacek protasiewicz, janusz onyszkiewicz or józef pinior – for their contributions. i think we are listening carefully. i will now make perhaps three points in conclusion. firstly, on visa fees, which many of you have mentioned. this is a problem of which we are particularly aware. even when talking in our national capacities over the past year, we always had much to say about this. let me be clear here. we see belarus as being part of europe and we are aware of the problems caused to the citizens of belarus by the increase in visa fees. to avoid negative consequences in terms of people-to-people contact, the czech presidency will continue to encourage member states to use the flexibility available in terms of the relevant provisions of the acquis. the presidency will also encourage a more coherent application of the existing rules by the member states. if the current positive dynamics are maintained and strengthened with further substantive steps by belarus regarding the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, allowing for the country’s participation in the enp and the future eastern partnership, a visa dialogue should eventually be envisaged. on the chernobyl children, a matter raised by some of you, i assure you that we will keep up the pressure. we supported the moves made by the french presidency on this issue, including the démarche carried out on 3 december last year. eu efforts have finally resulted in the temporary suspension of the presidential decree no 555 banning these trips. this, as well as the bilateral agreements which were reached in early december between ireland and belarus, on future rest and recuperation for children affected by the chernobyl disaster, were a welcome development. we are aware that the general problem is far from being resolved. the czech presidency will follow the matter and will take any further necessary steps on behalf of the eu, if appropriate, and will continue to raise this issue in our contacts with the authorities in minsk. finally, in the coming months with the sanctions review and in the context of the future eastern partnership, belarus will remain high on our agenda. just as your resolution adopted on belarus after the 28 september elections helped us to move forward, we hope that we can continue to receive your support during our term.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have seen that a very broad majority has the same opinion that we have. that means that we have offered the possibility for belarus to come closer to the european union through the european neighbourhood policy. we have offered, in principle, a shadow action plan and also a possibility to join the eastern partnership at the right moment when, of course, the conditions will be right. having said this, let me just answer a few of those specific points that you have made. one on the financial crisis: belarus has sustained the effects of the financial crisis and the rising gas prices in 2007 and 2008 reasonably well so far, due to its very limited integration in the global economy and also the substantial loans from russia, china and venezuela. now however, as i think mr belder rightly said, it has had to ask the imf for a standby loan of eur 2.5 billion, including then devaluating its currency in order to counter the negative effects of the global crisis. since its economy and industry remain largely unreformed and unstructured, we expect the negative tendency to continue with negative social consequences as a result. so you are right – this is an important factor. on the nuclear power plant and the questions about security and safety, let me tell you that, in our technical dialogue on energy with belarus, we pay special attention also to ensuring that this country respects international safety and security standards. we could say that belarus cooperates very actively with the iaea in vienna and has been remarkably open to providing the commission with information on this process. having said this, i just would like also to come back to the question of the visa fees. as i said in my first remark, you know that we would be ready to contribute to the negotiation as soon as the council has also expressed the position to try to manage that, bringing all the member states to the possibility of having a whole visa agreement as well as a re-admission agreement. following the visit of my deputy director-general, mr mingarelli, to minsk i can tell you that for the moment there is nothing new on this particular item. i just can say that visa fees and visas for children are specific to each and every country. we are not yet at the point of having one general agreement. that, again, would have to be negotiated by the commission.
i have received five draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 january 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on paper. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there has been talk of a political thaw in belarus. finally, the opposition movement "for freedom" by alexander milinkievich was registered. belarus has expressed its willingness to participate in the eu's eastern partnership initiative. even washington has reported that relations between the two countries have improved. is it time to warm up and break the ice with belarus? i hope so, but we must remember that president lukashenko is a shrewd and experienced political player. not so long ago, in europe, we were already dealing with what is called "political dehumidification". let me just remind you that the fruits of these changes have always been widespread disappointment. in the coming months, it will be of great importance how we play out the eu's policy towards the east. lukashenko has made it clear that he will not bow to the west, and in negotiations with medvedev over lower gas prices, he declared that belarus will not remain in debt to russia. it is clear that belarus is playing on two fronts. we must negotiate carefully and deliberately, so that we do not succumb to perhaps only temporary changes. we must be firm on strategic issues for the eu by pursuing a concrete policy of support for the development of civil society and the opposition in belarus. it continues to punish opposition activists and expel foreign clergy. the eu cannot ignore the fact that the authorities in belarus continue to violate civil and human rights.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the commemoration of 11 july as the day of remembrance for the victims of the srebrenica massacre.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr parish rightly referred to a point that we have made many times in this house, namely that the way we treat animals is a reflection of our culture and civilization. there's a lot of cruelty to animals in transportation. we have improved some things by introducing higher standards of transportation, but these are still insufficient resources. in my view, the appropriate solution would be to reduce the transport time of animals to 8 hours and the total time spent in transport and in the slaughterhouse to 12 hours, as has been proposed for some time. we intend to put forward this demand as part of the work currently under way on a regulation on the protection of animals at the time of slaughter. high isbo! the humanitarian argument is one thing, the financial argument is another (it's more relevant to some minds). the point is that these long hauls add to the costs that ultimately are paid by the consumer. we should estimate these costs and use them as an argument for these transports finally, after years of discussion, to limit and reduce animal suffering.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation on the protection of animals during transport is extremely important and it is very important to have this information. it should be noted that a large proportion of the meat consumed by union citizens is imported and is not subject to such regulations. this regulation is one of the most sensible ones in relation to regulations governing animal husbandry and slaughter. i realize that many large food companies do not respect workers' rights, much less the proper treatment of animals. it is in large companies that the most abnormal treatment of animals occurs. this is hardly a problem for smes. there is no alternative but to have more thorough police checks, border controls and the public disclosure of companies that violate animal rights to warn consumers against them.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the problem of transporting animals is very important and it is good that parliament is debating it again, but it is bad that we are not very effective in enforcing the regulation. i am very pleased that we are still seeing the transport of horses during today's proceedings. i'm glad not only because i'm a horse breeder and there really are no standards in this area. i'd like to take this opportunity to say that a horse can understand a man. he can always understand, but a man can't always understand a horse. like humans, horses can sense fear and distrust and can trust humans. i had a case where a seriously ill horse at the clinic wouldn't let the doctors do anything to it in my daughter's absence. once my daughter was here, they could do whatever they wanted to him. he just had faith in her, and just like us humans, we don't always have faith in doctors, the horse didn't have faith in doctors, but he had faith in a person who was friendly to him. that's why i think that man can't understand a horse either, when he's afraid, when he's scared, when that horse starts to defend itself, then he treats it as disobedience. he beats that horse, and the horse knows why the owner is upset and can give in to the owner. i am therefore grateful to all the members who have also seen this problem in terms of a certain good, a living being, a certain humanity.
mr. chairman, please! we've said a lot today about humanitarianism, about the state of our civilization. i agree that in general our discussion, our votes are going in the right direction. this is a much-needed debate. i would just like to point out that, in taking the good and very correct direction we have taken, we should not artificially and unnecessarily burden farmers and companies, which we can probably avoid. it is simply my appeal to the commission and to us not to introduce this good project on some unnecessary reefs. on the other hand, if we are emphasizing these very good solutions so strongly today, i would also urge that they not be treated selectively, that we all - the countries of the community, the countries of the european union - treat them equally everywhere. today, for example, i'm thinking about the in-between... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the european union attaches great importance to the proper treatment of animals throughout the entire life cycle of livestock, from birth to slaughter. as we know, the way we treat animals during breeding and transportation determines whether the meat is of the right quality. the requirements for the protection of animals during transport should be established for each animal species on the basis of scientific evidence. we should therefore review this regulation. commercial needs require the transport of animals over certain distances, often too long, requiring considerable time to transport them. it is therefore important to observe certain rules and requirements. the question has therefore rightly been raised as to how we are implementing, or even if we are implementing, the eu rules on the transport of animals. we should analyse the situation in the individual member states. let us remember that all this affects costs and the competitiveness of production. eu citizens are very sensitive... (the president cut the speaker off)
the mediterranean diet deserves to be protected and promoted for other reasons too. today, in a world dominated by supermarket and fast food, mediterranean cuisine is a glorious exception to popular and healthy food. it is not the invention of dietitians but the result of centuries of tradition handed down from generation to generation. more than half of the population of the european union is overweight. 15% of them are obese. i'm in this, too. this is alarming data. we should take action to counter this negative trend. one way is to promote healthy eating, and the mediterranean diet is certainly one of them. scientific studies have shown that it helps to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, especially coronary heart disease, cancer, and also has a positive effect on our life expectancy.
mr. chairman, please! it is better to eat healthily and not get sick than to be treated by even the most effective modern methods. treatment, including complicated surgery for excess cholesterol, is also more expensive than simple, traditional food. it is wise to base oneself on good, proven traditions. the mediterranean diet promotes health and enjoyment of life, and prevents obesity. i'm glad that unesco has recognized the mediterranean diet as a cultural heritage.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am voting in favour of the report on the budgetary control of eu funds in afghanistan (2008/2152 (ini)). mrs mathieu rightly points out that the rate of social development in afghanistan is at a dramatically low level. the fact that afghanistan is in a state of conflict or war, tribal and international strife, drug trafficking, corruption - all these factors make it necessary for the community to provide assistance. i'd like to express my support for aid to afghanistan. i welcome the long-term commitment to the country and believe that the priorities set out in the commission's national strategy paper 2007-2013 are in line with the needs of the afghan people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs teresa riera madurell on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in access to employment, training and promotion. the issue of equal treatment of people regardless of gender, race, religion, etc. is a fundamental human right. of course, the natural biological differences between men and women cannot be ignored. i do not believe that it is a true expression of concern for gender equality to apply 50% automated accounting everywhere. for the hard jobs of a miner, a blacksmith, etc., this leads directly to the absurd, as it does for the nursing and teaching professions. and you can't force girls into technical college to maintain a 50/50 ratio. the key issues are access to education at all levels, to leadership (including in political institutions), to equal pay for equal work, to adequate access to social security and social assistance and to healthcare (including maternity). trade unions should play an important role in this. this is an issue of relevance at local, regional, national and eu level. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the discriminatory court decisions against men, which almost automatically award a woman child custody in the event of divorce.
in writing. − although equality between women and men is a fundamental right, inequality in the labour market in terms of pay, employment rates and quality remains a major structural problem. unfortunately, it has been observed that higher education does not always result in a smaller wage gap between men and women. the madurell report reveals shortcomings in the transposition and application by member states of directive 2002/73/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, training, promotion and working conditions. the rapporteur stresses first of all that many member states have incorrectly introduced the definition of discrimination into their legal systems. in many countries, there is only a general definition, which does not mention discrimination on grounds of sex. in others, there is no reference to the definition of sexual harassment or the concept is merely included in the general definition of harassment (in poland, the definition of sexual harassment is article 183a § 6 of the labour code), which makes it much more difficult for victims to assert their rights. initiatives at the lowest level to raise public awareness and provide means of supporting victims of discrimination are crucial to combating inequalities.
in writing. - the european union's relations with belarus are bilateral. if there is a common good will, there will be dialogue, a proper neighbourhood policy and an eastern partnership. partnerships cannot be built through bans and injunctions, and i therefore welcome the european commission's recent initiatives to improve relations with belarus. objectively, belarus has done a lot to promote the agreement. this is evidenced, among other things, by the registration of the freedom movement, the authorisation to print and distribute opposition newspapers, and the opening up to the eastern partnership initiative. the union's expectations are higher, and this is understandable. but the justification also has many expectations from belarus. in many areas, symmetry and understanding of the partner is needed. for example, if the belarusian authorities are being urged to stop issuing exit visas to citizens, especially children and students, why is the european union not simplifying and liberalizing visa procedures for belarusian citizens? these issues are particularly important for us who live in border regions, culturally and family-wise. in addition to cultural and national issues, crossborder economic and cooperation are also important. the commission and the council can and should do more on this point too.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. first of all, i wanted to point out the absence of a representative of the czech presidency during this debate. i am very sorry to hear this, because the czech republic is the heir to the democratic traditions of the struggle for human rights throughout central and eastern europe. i repeat: it is very sad for me that there is no representative of the presidency in this debate today, although other presidencies, such as the german one, have always sent such a representative. we are debating today the human rights situation in iran, which is an important country in the middle east and one of the countries that will have a decisive influence on the political situation in this region of the world. this further commits the iranian authorities to strictly respect human rights and international humanitarian law. we stand in defense of nobel prize winner shirin ebadi and oppose the recent actions of the authorities and the campaign directed by the authorities to the public against shirin ebadi. i also want to draw attention to the continued arrests of students at shiraz university. during the week when the european parliament is sitting in strasbourg (on january 12th, to be precise), another 6 people were arrested. we must stand up for the autonomy of the student movement in iran. i also want to draw attention to the repression, the stigma, against doctors who are involved in aids research. i'm not going to let you do this. the only conclusion that can be drawn from this is that the human rights situation in iran must be closely monitored by the european commission and the european union as a whole.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in iran, where the principles of fundamentalism are supported by a large part of the society, the activity of any democratic institutions that are based on other cultural principles is met with great resistance and intolerance. iran is one example. on the one hand, politicians who govern a country sign commitments to international agreements to improve their image, but unfortunately, the daily practice is different. one example is the case of shirin ebadi, the nobel peace prize winner who heads the center for human rights. the fact that the activities of the party are being monitored is due to the weakness of the ruling class, which, fearing for its position, is unable to discipline the anti-democratic activities of the fundamentalists. we support the resolution. i think we should do something more radical in this area.
mr. chairman, please! zbigniew brzezinski identifies the main threat to global stability and development prospects in an arc of instability that stretches from egypt to pakistan. the main country in this particular arc, this particular pivot, he says, is iran. without solving the problem of iran, without making it a predictable and democratic country, it will be very difficult to think about the danger that brzezinski is talking about being eliminated. but you can't bring democracy to iran, you can't bring stability to iran. it must be the work of the iranians themselves. iranians and inside iran, just like mrs. ebadi, and those who are outside, who are in exile, like miriam rajavi. and that's why it's so important to support these democratic movements and also to finally recognize that the mujahideen are not a terrorist organization.
mr. chairman, please! ironically, just like the election of hamas, we have a situation in iran where the authorities are elected by the people. that's our problem, because there's not much you can do. something has to change there. we can only speak to the world and send our message to iran that we condemn the violation of human rights, the lack of democracy, whether they like it or not. perhaps in this case, the word will be our weapon and at the same time our help to those who in iran are fighting for the true freedom that i wish for them.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: fortunately, the days are long gone when the only known way to change government in west africa was through military coups. while the countries bordering guinea - sierra leone, côte d'ivoire, senegal, and liberia - have experienced political thaw, the fall of military regimes, and the emergence of a young democracy, guinea has been frozen in time. the late president conte himself seized power in a military coup, and now we have déjà vu. within 24 hours of the president's death, the military seized power in the country, suspending the constitution. the only good news is that the coup was condemned by african countries and the african union. further eu assistance to guinea should be linked to the restoration of constitutional order and the early holding of presidential elections, the conduct and fairness of which should be monitored by independent international organisations. but if captain camara wants to be a guinea obama, the extent of corruption and poverty in that country would have to be drastically reduced.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the day after the death of mr lansana conté, president, on 23 december 2008, a military junta led by captain camara seized power in guinea, suspending the constitution and the right to political activity and dissolving the government. the junta declares to fight corruption, to hold presidential elections by december 2010, when the current rules set the date of elections for 60 days after the expiry of the mandate. however, it is clear that the people of guinea are showing their approval for the new government. on 29 december, the african union suspended guinea's membership in the organisation, giving it six months to restore constitutional order. the european parliament should call on the guinean authorities to restore civil law and hold democratic presidential elections as soon as possible. i expect the european commission to provide humanitarian aid to the civilian population and to engage in dialogue with the guinean authorities.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have another case of a group of officers taking over. military junta acts in a similar way: first arrests, suspension of the constitution, and then announcement of democratic elections. in this case, the announcement is for two years. but the practice is that the officers get involved in the exercise of power, they like it, it causes social oppression and riots, violation of human rights and democratic principles. in this case, we have every right to suspect that the same thing could happen, even though we all hope that maybe there's a different, better case, a better solution. i think that the pressure and the appeal to reason is being exerted by the behaviour of the economic community of west african states and the african union, which have suspended guinea's participation in their work. i think that given the social situation, the continuing decline in per capita income, the authorities of the european union, the european commission, will also take appropriate, prudent but courageous action to normalize the situation in this country as soon as possible for the benefit of the inhabitants, to avoid genocide and violation of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! the coup in guinea has a similar scenario to most of the coups in africa and other continents. it takes place immediately after the death of president conté, who had seized power in a coup 24 years earlier. the economic and political situation of this very poor country is driving its society to a military-pacified approach that perpetuates the corruption of power and the division between those who get rich and those who starve to death. the suspension of relations with the junta by the african union and the economic community of african states is a positive step in this situation. external pressures may force the junta to call for democratic elections. the lesson to be learned from this situation is that for democracy in africa, there should be a scenario of action by the african union that would prevent attacks that cause enormous losses to the citizens of this poor part of the world. i support the resolution.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? kenya has been in a serious political crisis for some time. the incumbent president kibaki has taken actions clearly aimed at restricting freedom of speech and the press. in violation of the declaration of human rights and the african charter of human rights, on january 2nd this year, he approved amendments to the so-called communications act of 1998, giving state authorities new rights, including the right to dismantle broadcasting and communication equipment and to control and modify the content of mass media publications. the international community unanimously recognized this as another step towards the establishment of censorship in the kenyan media. moreover, despite his previous commitments under the grand coalition, the president did not consult the acting prime minister on this or any other decision, deepening the crisis in the country that has lasted for over a year, which has already claimed some 1,000 lives and left 350,000 citizens homeless. the european union cannot remain passive in the face of open violations of fundamental freedoms. the assurance given by the kenyan president that the amendments would be reviewed and consulted with all political forces in order to give them a new democratic quality and broad public acceptance is to be welcomed. the european union must support and monitor these activities in detail, promoting pluralism in the building of civil society. at the same time, the kenyan authorities should take increased steps to bring about normalisation in the country, including through the establishment of a special commission of local and international experts to punish those responsible for the violence and to bring about last year's crisis. these actions have the potential to stabilize the internal situation and prevent the humanitarian catastrophe that is imminent in this east african country of ten million people.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a solidarity member with experience of martial law, i know that freedom of speech is the air for democracy. the kenyan government has signed and ratified the universal declaration of human rights and other international conventions, including the african charter on human and peoples' rights. they include the right to freedom of expression. today, the east african journalists association is announcing that they are going to introduce censorship in kenya. i expect president kibaki to withdraw from any changes to the media law that would violate freedom of speech. i call on the kenyan authorities to reverse their decision to impose censorship, and to build consensus for press freedom and the media industry. i expect kenya to respect the rights of religious and ethnic minorities. last year, more than a thousand people lost their lives in election-related demonstrations, and 350,000 were forced to flee their homes. i expect the perpetrators of these events to be brought to justice.
mr. chairman, please! even if it is true that some of the private kenyan media contributed to the post-election riots, this is by no means a reason to restrict freedom of speech. the attack on media freedom in kenya also violated the basic principles of parliamentary democracy. well, it's worth saying that the new law was passed by 25 mps out of the 220-member parliament - it's an absolutely unimaginable situation. worse, because kenya used to have one of the most developed and pluralistic press systems in africa, this is changing with the introduction of a new law that allows special services to interfere with the media, shut down newsrooms, control speech. restricting the freedom of the media market in the name of protecting state security can only have the opposite effect of what is intended.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament resolution on press freedom in kenya hits the spot. restrictions on freedom of the press and information and restrictions on civil rights are the beginning of a dictatorship. i hope that this process will be stopped as a result of the international and domestic actions taken. i think president kibaki and prime minister odinga will take appropriate action. the resolution i support will certainly help the process of democratization in kenya.
mr. chairman, please! in communist times, poland and other countries had a provision in the penal code that made it a crime to disseminate information that could lead to public disorder. well, this kind of regulation was an incredibly useful whip, not just for individuals, but especially for the press. today, we see that the same intentions are behind the legal efforts that we see in kenya. it cannot be an excuse and justification for this kind of censorship, just this argument and threat that you have to put a gag on the press, because the press can cause some unrest in the state. the press is there to inform the people, and that's really the foundation of democracy.
mr. chairman, please! there are 5,000 trains a day passing through augusta. children pass by the road every day on their way to school. almost every day, one of them gets killed by a train. ecoterrorists, in the name of protecting birds from noise, have blocked the construction of the bypass. for every week that the investment process is extended, one of the children in augustow must pay with his life. neither eco-terrorists nor judges of the european court of justice send their children to the track. but the lives of the children of augustow are treated as less important than the welfare of the birds. i'm all for taking care of the environment, doing things to protect nature, but when it comes to human life, you can't just go around taking it for granted. i ask the european commission: how many polish children have to pay with their lives for blocking the construction of the ring road? were their lives ever considered in the decision-making process?
mr. chairman, please! german chancellor angela merkel at a meeting in davos called for the construction of a baltic gas pipeline from russia to germany. the chancellor has once again demonstrated her understanding of european solidarity. the scandinavian countries, as well as lithuania, latvia, estonia and poland, had expressed reservations and objections to the pipeline project. the chancellor has shown how important the voices of environmentalists who warn of the threat to the baltic sea are to her. it is irrelevant to the chancellor that the cost of this project will be many times higher than the cost of building an underground pipeline. i ask you: did chancellor angela merkel, following the example of her predecessor, chancellor gerhard schröder, apply for a position at gazprom? do the leaders of the german left and right realize that by doing so they are undermining the authority, the seriousness and the cohesion of the european union?
mr. chairman, please! taking advantage of the fact that the world's attention is now focused on issues related to the economic crisis, the chinese authorities have stepped up their extensive repression against the tibetans. the campaign, which is expected to last more than 40 days, is mainly targeting participants in last year's protests. there's been an increase in police calls, disappearances, intimidation and unexplained deaths. it is not inconceivable that the repression will lead to the emergence of tibetan extremists, to which the chinese military and security services will respond with brutal pacification actions. so it may well turn out to be a deliberate provocation by the chinese authorities, who are counting on the fact that even democratic governments will limit themselves to timid protests in their joint struggle against the economic crisis. the european parliament should be clear and firm on this issue, and i will therefore take the liberty of sending you a draft appeal to the chinese prime minister today. let's send a message to the communist regime that we will not tolerate the violation of the basic rights of the tibetan people.
madam president! we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the beginning of the so-called round table in poland. the ruling party and the opposition then sat down to discuss how to solve poland's problems, both economic and social, and the most important political ones. the opposition parties were mainly represented by the representatives of the 'solidarity' party, founded in 1980 and headed by lech wałęsa, and its advisers. on the ruling side, however, sat the authorities of the collapsing socialist economic system were the authors of martial law in poland. following discussions and the round table's decisions, elections were held in june 1989, which led to the formation of the first government with a non-communist prime minister, tadeusz mazowiecki. it was this government that indicated that the right direction for poland was not only freedom and democracy but also integration with the european union. the changes that took place in my country at that time started the march of many countries in central and eastern europe towards freedom, democracy and integration with the european union.
madam president! the doha round was designed to help the poorest countries in the world to develop, to get out of poverty. so on the one hand we must do everything we can to help, and on the other hand we must not forget our entrepreneurs or farmers. so i would like to ask the question: how do we protect our small and mediumsized enterprises from bankruptcy and our small farms from competition from china, india and brazil? let us say loud and clear that to import any product into the union, whether it is shoes or beef, certain standards must be met. then we can talk about a level playing field. the completion of the negotiations in the coming months will be extremely difficult because there is no political will from the leaders who are involved in the negotiations. there is a risk of increased protectionism due to the ongoing global economic crisis.
i wanted to say that listening to the last debate in doha, qatar, i got the impression that developing countries have a claim on us -- and on the developed countries. maybe it's an echo of the old colonialism, or getting used to receiving direct aid, and therefore receiving as if it were a handout. i think the richer countries can help through good trade, through good patterns, through training. all that is needed is to empower local entrepreneurship and to build horizontal links between countries in africa, asia and latin america. i also believe that it is services that teach management, cooperation and good standards. this emphasis on opening up the market for services is therefore very important for both parties.
i'm not going to let you down. i would like to support the views of our colleagues who say that our small businesses must be protected from the introduction of inferior, counterfeit and pirated goods. i remember that the representatives of the tuscan producers' association asked us during the visit to take into account the fact that they did not need protection, but a clear confirmation that the made in italy mark would only appear on their italian goods. i would now like to add something and make the commissioner aware that she does indeed have a rather difficult task of resolving a certain dilemma. on the one hand, consumers obviously want to buy cheaper products, that is, at a low price, whether they come from china or from some other country, and on the other hand they need to know that their fellow citizens may lose their jobs at the cost. perhaps a campaign to raise awareness will help you, as a spokesperson, to resolve this dilemma by asking questions and making suggestions that will be met with public support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not excluded from the market.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me respond to a few of the points that have been made. a number of honourable members – mr papastamkos, mr susta, ms ferreira, mr grau i segú and mr zaleski – talked about the ‘made in’ proposition. i think the proposal the commission has put forward is sound and should be adopted and that it is in the interests of business. however, as honourable members know, i do not yet have a majority in the council, and any support that honourable members can give in getting that majority would be most welcome. a number of members – mr susta, ms saïfi, mr assis in particular – and ms budreikaitė talked about the trade defence instruments and the importance of making sure that we operate the mechanisms we have effectively. i committed in my hearing to ensure that i would do that, and i am continuing to do so. concerning intellectual property, it is important that we have an action plan, and i intend to deal with that. i also want to address the particular point about the helpdesk and small businesses. it is specifically designed to help small businesses address issues of defence. i am very grateful. if honourable members would like more information or are concerned about that, they are very welcome to contact me. ‘protect not protectionism’ is a very big theme of the discussions. i would just like to say – perhaps particularly to ms plumb and mr ransdorf – that these are important differences. it is very important to fight protectionism; it is important to make sure we are supporting our industries to be able to compete and trade in the future. a number of interesting ideas were raised, such as impact assessments for industry, and i will feed those to my colleague günter verheugen. he well understands the importance of collecting data and statistics, but i will make sure that he hears of the concerns you have raised. we must look at all the initiatives on the table and how we deal with access to markets, as has been said. i would say to mr guerreiro that i accept absolutely the strategic importance of textiles and clothing and its value to the discussion we have had about accelerating markets. my final comment is addressed to mr rübig: i cannot tell you in one second about how we need to accelerate the opening of markets in india and china, but i am more than happy to discuss that at your convenience.
in writing. the import of cheap textiles from china to europe is a problem that has been increasing lately as a result of the gradual liberalisation of world trade. with a multi-million-strong low-cost workforce, the chinese textile industry has a clear advantage over european producers which mainly specialise in branded products. as the process of displacing domestic production by more competitive chinese imports continues, we can observe negative social effects, affecting mainly regions that have been specialised in clothing production for centuries. as we are facing one of the most serious economic crises in history, the risk of impoverishment of large areas of the community is all the greater. the uncontrolled influx of cheap clothing from asia is also a problem of counterfeiting of branded products, which further weakens the position of european producers and exposes consumers to serious risks related to the low quality of imported products. there is no doubt that, as a result of the expiry of the bilateral surveillance agreement at the end of 2008, immediate action is needed to extend this mechanism. it is also appropriate to set up a high-level group within the eu to monitor the flow of chinese textiles and to control their quality. given that in the face of economic recession, the protection of jobs should be a particular concern of the governments of the member states and the ec, i call for the protection of the european textile market to be given priority.
mr. chairman, please! the energy crisis has exposed the weaknesses of the european union. we still have trouble reading the political challenges that come with it. the commission's proposal to increase the supply of russian energy resources by building the nord-süd gas pipeline is a clear illustration of this error. it's the opposite. this crisis shows that we should put everything into building an independent infrastructure that will lead us to independent sources of energy resources in azerbaijan and turkmenistan. the crisis shows that we should remove the northern gas pipeline from the european commission's priority list to avoid a russian monopoly in europe. solving the energy problem will be the critical moment of the whole integration. the union has a chance to show its efficiency and to gain new strength. or he can show his passivity and risk being marginalized.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her work. let me make a few points on the strategic energy review and the last energy crisis problem, which are closely linked. my first point: in our report, which calls on the member states to speak with a single european voice on energy issues, we have explicitly stated what all europeans have seen in the past weeks to be the reality, namely that damaging energy supply in the member states afflicts the european union as a whole. it is very important. this is the basis of european solidarity and a basis for developing emergency response measures. my second point is that the report mentions ccs technology as having the potential to meet our environmental targets while exploiting a source of energy – coal – that is largely available in europe. by developing ccs, europe can become a world leader in advanced technologies, which will contribute to our global competitiveness and strengthen our economies. the same is true for coal gasification technology, which is very important as an additional source of gas supply – it means diversification of gas supply. my third point is that this strategic document specifically underlines the need for investment in the energy supply infrastructure. infrastructure projects that receive support at eu level should first and foremost contribute to the real diversification of sources and routes of supplies to the member states and to the eu as a whole. investment in ukraine seems to be of special importance for us. together with our ukrainian partners, we could, in the future, take the joint responsibility for gas deliveries on the russian-ukrainian border. the reason for such a step on our part is very simple. in terms of energy relations, ukraine identifies with international standards. it has ratified the energy charter treaty and, therefore, plays by transparent rules. my fourth point is that our strategic document greatly complements our efforts towards implementing the third energy package. what does it mean? it means a working internal market in energy for the european union; it means solidarity and support on many sides. let us finish the legislative procedure during the next three months. it is very important for us.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it's time to get it out in the open. firstly, the union has no energy strategy. this encourages russia, for example, which treats energy resources as a political weapon, to try to exert pressure and blackmail, which makes the union's situation worse. secondly, the union has been subjected to a collective manipulation of the threat of global warming due to co2 emissions. more and more scientists and facts are proving that this is not true. what is worth examining is whose interests are served by those who preach the theory and fear that the earth is warming. thirdly, the union needs an energy strategy based on the weakest link principle, i.e. aid to finance and invest in those countries which are most dependent on a single supplier, such as the baltic states and poland. fourthly, the union needs to apologize and return to grace the hard and brown coal it has in abundance and which is cheap. fifthly, the union needs fiscal and credit policies to promote new technologies and energy savings, which are lacking.
madam president, mrs laperrouze's report on energy policy touches on a subject of great importance for all the countries of the union. i express my deep respect for his work, but the situation is still very serious. the overwhelming and disastrous experience of our southern countries in january, together with the forecasts that threaten us with a considerable energy deficit in the next two decades, all this implies that energy policy must be an essential part of our foreign policy. but the future is bleak because we lack unanimity, solidarity and resources, commissioner. as far as solidarity is concerned, this may not be the case for the commission, but rather for some of the major european countries. we're not speaking with one voice. i completely agree with mr swoboda that nabucco is a great disgrace to the european union. for example, russia's south stream, which is backed by the state and some eu countries, is in danger of displacing nabucco, which is twice as cheap and operates according to market rules. its sources of supply in azerbaijan are at risk of being seized by its rival, making it a precarious and dubious investment. in this way, the union will probably lose the only chance of diversity and better security... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, russia is increasingly clearly using the supply of energy resources, mainly gas, to exert a strong political influence. the recent gas conflict between russia and ukraine has not only caused huge economic losses to many eu countries, but also, with the eu's approval, pushed ukraine back into a clear economic dependence on russia. it is hard to imagine that the ukrainian economy could function at a gas price of over $400 per 1,000 cubic meters. secondly, a new eu-russia partnership agreement must be negotiated, including energy issues, but with the explicit stipulation that supplies of energy resources will not be used by russia for political influence and that any losses resulting from non-supply will be borne entirely by russian suppliers. thirdly, the european union, through its own financial resources and the european investment bank, should support, first and foremost, those gas investments which actually diversify gas supplies to the european union and thus provide real opportunities for importing gas from countries other than russia, such as the nabucco pipeline.
madam president! the gas and financial crisis forces us to act quickly and pragmatically over individual interests and economically unjustified ideas like the nord stream pipeline. the second strategic energy review does not provide the desired added value. a number of the themes listed in the review encounter significant implementation difficulties. the citizens and economies of the union need quick and concrete decisions and actions that will secure relatively low and stable energy costs over the next 15 years. they will lead to potentially significant savings in industry, transport and households. they will significantly reduce the union's dependence on imports of hydrocarbons and ensure the correctness of their supply. they will lead to the development of a programme and plan of specific projects and their investment implementation as soon as possible, using the research results. these economic activities will reduce co2 emissions and eliminate the need for bureaucratic emissions trading, which is good for traders but not for the economy.
madam president! last but not least, the gas supply crisis is making the issue of the security of supply of this very important raw material come up again and again. in europe, we're not in a bad situation in terms of our location. we're almost surrounded by gas resources: north africa, the middle east, central asia, russia. the problem is that there is no single market for gas in europe. there is therefore no more or less uniform price. i would like to point out that in the united states there is such a market and the price for 1,000 cubic meters of gas is below 200 dollars. in europe, we pay about $400. this is because we don't have the infrastructure to make it possible for gas to be transported between countries. and finally, the nabucco pipeline. it's time we put this pipeline on the right priority and put our financial resources into making it happen.
madam president, i have three questions to commissioner piebalgs. firstly, nabucco may become a hostage to the turkey’s accession negotiations, as we have learned from prime minister erdoğan. are we also considering, within the southern corridor, the white stream (caspian-georgia-black sea-ukraine-romania) project? secondly, in the revised gas directive, would you consider a mandatory 90 days of reserves for gas storage for all the member states? thirdly, you have presented an impressive package of eur 3.5 billion for energy infrastructure. do you foresee any obstacles to that in the council? because it has still to be accepted in the council: i have heard about four member states objecting. and how can the european parliament, which has also to accept it, help to pass it as quickly as possible?
in writing. the energy crisis of january is slowly becoming an annual ritual. the harsher the winter, the more certain it is that the russian federation will turn the gas hooks on the european countries. it is all the more surprising that, in the face of another gas conflict, which has affected the citizens of the european union, chancellor angela merkel continues to push for proposals to implement the northern gas pipeline with community funds. what the european commission should be doing now is preparing a plan for the diversification of energy sources. investments should be made in the construction of new transmission networks that would bypass uncertain energy exporters such as the russian federation. in one of my amendments to the report by mrs anne laperrouze, we emphasize the importance of supporting 'the nabucco pipeline, the only project in existence to diversify energy sources and gas transport routes' without russia's participation. the establishment of gas interconnectors to enable interconnections and the rapid transfer of gas reserves in case of future crises should also be a priority. our trade agreements should be based on a special "energy security clause" which would be the business ethic for this sector. it is important for europe and the rest of the world that is doing business in a civilized way that the russian federation ratifies the energy charter treaty. i believe that only a united and uncompromising european position can persuade the kremlin to take such a decision.
on paper. wise poles after the damage! an old saying, not very flattering to my countrymen, can be extended to the whole of the european union. it took the bitter experience of the russian-ukrainian gas war in january 2009 for energy security to become a priority for the european community as a whole. we cannot hide behind the absence of the treaty of lisbon, which includes provisions on energy solidarity. it is only through political will, backed by a cold analysis of the recent crisis, that future scenarios can be outlined and the european union freed from similar troubles caused by the blockade of gas supplies via ukraine. both the commission's communication and the anne laperrouze report highlight the ways to deal with emergencies - increasing reserves and creating a transmission network that ensures technical availability. these are uncontested matters. it will be more difficult to agree on a long-term strategy, which must take account of a realistic stance towards russia as europe's main supplier of oil and gas. interdependence, as we have seen, does not guarantee continuity of supply and relationships based on rational economic considerations. the interference of political motives is too obvious to be naive. the most difficult thing in relations with our eastern neighbours will be to root out the tendency to conclude bilateral agreements, and this is the real measure of success or failure of the community's policy of energy security and solidarity!
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking mr luis queiró for his report on a subject so important for the future of transport in europe. i would like to stress the importance of the development of the general and corporate aviation sector and the aircraft manufacturing industry for this aviation segment. although the solutions proposed by the commission do not entail radical legislative changes and may seem insignificant at present, their impact on the future of aviation cannot be overestimated in the light of the liberalisation of the market and the development of the air transport sector in poland. the commission aims to facilitate the development of this aviation sector by simplifying existing regulatory procedures, adapting the rules to new forms of aircraft management services and reviewing them for their proportionality. it is clear that this initiative deserves our full support. however, it is necessary to ensure that the policy formulation and implementation processes take into account the needs of all categories of airspace users and aviation infrastructure in capacity planning and optimisation. however, in order to facilitate further reforms, a european basic data repository for general and corporate aviation should be established. finally, it is necessary to facilitate access to foreign markets for this segment by encouraging the development of new, competitive technologies, while ensuring that it operates in compliance with environmental protection principles.
in writing. it is not easy, in times when the word 'crisis' is often heard, to talk about a stable future for general and corporate aviation. so i thank mr luis queiro for taking the trouble to report on this. i'm glad you did. i am convinced that air transport can be one of the engines of the global and european economy. remember, only 106 years ago the wright brothers made the world's first controlled flight in a powered aircraft, though only 130 feet [40 m] long. it was the beginning of real aviation. today, aviation is a highly developed industry, with flying machines equipped with a variety of devices. aviation is also the whole complex sphere of navigation and traffic control, it's the construction of ground infrastructure for airports, it's the security system, and so on. let us be aware that in europe there are more than 50 000 aircraft in general and corporate aviation, and almost four times as many small aircraft and gliders used for sport and recreation. these numbers speak for themselves. in this context, it is also of the utmost importance to ensure adequate capacity in european airspace and at airports themselves. i would like to draw attention to the importance of regional airports in ensuring the coherence of the union's transport network. of course, when we talk about the development of air transport, we cannot forget about the environmental problems.
the next item is the report by mrs roberta angelilli, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft european parliament recommendation to the council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography (2008/2144 (ini)) (a6-0012/2009).
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by warmly thanking mrs roberta angelilli for her excellent report. i also thank her for her cooperation with the commission on this very delicate and sensitive subject which is very close to our hearts. children are vulnerable and have the right to be protected for their harmonious development. sexual abuse, exploitation of various kinds, especially child pornography, are heinous crimes that cause deep and lasting damage to the children who are their victims. it's a terrible phenomenon, and we don't know the extent of it. some sources claim that between 10 and 20 per cent of children in europe will have been the victim of some form of sexual assault during their childhood. the european union has legislation in this area. the 2004 framework decision establishes a minimum level of approximation of national legislation in the area of criminalisation and jurisdiction. despite the incomplete information, the commission considered in a report in 2007 that the framework decision was being implemented in a generally satisfactory manner. but that's not enough. the development of the internet is fostering the proliferation of new threats to our children. child pornography is one of them. there are others, such as the solicitation of children, to which mrs angelilli referred. sexual tourism to third countries for the purpose of child abuse is a reality. and we are still not immune from abuse by people who may have been convicted in other member states. the member states are not satisfied. at the end of 2007, they negotiated a council of europe convention that establishes a very high standard of protection. in the first year, 20 of the 27 member states have already signed the convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. parliament called for better implementation, but above all for a substantial improvement of the european framework, with a list of elements to strengthen the fight against these crimes. i have to say, i'm not satisfied either. i have announced a fundamental revision of european legislation in this area. i will be submitting a proposal for adoption by the college in march. i would like to put on the table an ambitious text that acts both on repression, on the protection of victims and on prevention. the suggestions contained in the report will help us to implement this proposal. most of the elements of this report should be incorporated in the new framework decision. if, for legal or technical reasons, this is not possible, we will seek to identify the most appropriate tools to implement the proposals that could not have been included in this framework decision. we will see whether there is a need for political initiatives, for example, to use the dialogue with third countries or to provide ourselves with financial instruments, as is the case with existing programmes. there you go. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note the willingness of parliament to go ahead with the adoption of 'abduction alert' systems in each member state. i must say that at the last meeting of the ministers of the interior and justice i made a very strong plea for the need to equip each member state with a 'kidnapping alert' system and, of course, to interconnect these systems to make them fully effective. i thank the european parliament once again for its determined commitment. i would like to thank mrs roberta angelilli, who has certainly given us a very good report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although the legal systems of the member states provide for sanctions against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the level of safety of our children must continue to be raised. it is worth noting that children are exposed to potential sexual offenders through the use of new technologies, especially the internet. in view of the threat, it is appropriate to call on member states to block access to websites containing child pornography. it has to be a legally binding obligation. there is also an urgent need for a european campaign to raise awareness among parents, but also teenagers, of the dangers of child pornography on the internet. it is also important to support the victims of this vile practice and their families. they're often lonely. high isbo! it is our duty to protect our children as best we can.
mr. chairman, please! it is very gratifying that parliament has taken the fight against child sexual abuse and child pornography seriously. the more so because so far many leftist circles in europe have been fighting for the greatest possible sexual freedom, without paying attention to the consequences of such behavior towards children. there have even been attempts to form a pedophile party. this must be a horror for any decent citizen of the european union. the scale of this phenomenon is enormous. just look at the daily papers. in this discussion, attention should be drawn to the violation of children's rights and the sexual exploitation of children by non-european immigrants. it's one thing that it's allowed in their home countries, but if they live in a european union country, they have to obey the law or they have to leave europe. there can be no different rights for the traditional peoples of europe and no different rights for immigrants. this is true in all areas of life.
mr. chairman, please! 'you have to learn to speak' ... 'speech' is a very important part of speech. it's a disagreement with the evil poet zbigniew herbert. today we must say no to the violation of the fundamental rights of the child, no to violence and sexual abuse of children, no to depravity and pornography on the internet, no to sex tourism. so thank you very much, mrs angelilla, for your report. i've raised this issue myself many times. prevention and counteraction are needed in this regard. it is essential to raise awareness of the risks among children, parents and educators. rapid detection of crimes and strict enforcement of penalties are essential. we need the media to cooperate. this action must be worldwide. in some countries there are organizations that question the criminalization of sexual relations with children. not only that, but there are even some deceptive claims of so-called "good pedophilia". so let us not be indifferent to the humiliation of our children, to their pain and humiliation. it's the shame of our time.
mr. chairman, please! mrs angelilli's report will help any parent to protect their children from pedophiles who prey on them online. but remember that any support we receive in the form of filters and surveillance from internet service providers does not absolve us - as parents - from our duty to protect and warn our children. i live in a small town. people know each other, they're interested in what's going on in their neighborhood. a stranger is interesting. it would be difficult to make contact with children in a small village in southern poland unnoticed. but i dare say that in such quiet and safe places all over europe, while parents are quietly reading the newspaper or watching television, an unwanted stranger is sitting in their children's bedroom, making contact with them over the internet. are we helpless as parents? we're not together. maybe our kids are more tech-savvy, maybe it's hard to get them away from computers. dear parents, do one thing today to protect your children. remind them of what we were taught, which is that we don't talk to strangers. it's a simple message to convey. today, the stranger doesn't walk around the school with a bag of candy, today the stranger goes into an online chat room and looks for his victim. it's more dangerous because we can't see it when it's moving from one child's bedroom to another. let's teach our children not to talk to strangers, including online, and let's shut the door in front of them.
madam president! 20 member states have signed the 'council of europe convention', the first international legal instrument to criminalise the sexual exploitation of children. the development of science and technology and, in particular, of new communication technologies, such as the internet and mobile telephony, have also revealed new opportunities for the recruitment of children for the purpose of sexual exploitation and the dissemination of child pornography. it is necessary to introduce penalties for such acts in the criminal law of all member states. however, criminal liability for these acts is not enough. it is necessary to systematically prevent situations in which a child is at risk of sexual exploitation. whether it's educating parents and children, or prosecuting online pedophile rings. thank you, mrs angelilla, for a very important and well-prepared report.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union is not dealing with illegal immigration. it's supported by many facts, including mr. fava's statement. it reads, among other things: 'it is estimated that there are between 4.5 and 8 million illegal immigrants in the european union and this number is constantly increasing, in particular because of the easy access to illegal work'. the very fact that we use figures between 4.5 million and 8 million shows that we are not even able to define precisely the scale of this problem and issue. and yet, labour migration also affects many eu member states, especially those that are historically lagging behind. today, millions of poles and citizens of other countries move within the european union to the old member states. these citizens are exposed to the same pathology and are in a similar situation to migrants arriving from third countries. because illegal employment is exploitation, with denial of health insurance, pension rights, exploitation of minors, and even human trafficking. the only way to combat this is to have strong legal sanctions and to use them consistently.
madam president! the employment of illegally staying workers in the european union prevents fair competition and deprives such workers of adequate protection. i am thinking in particular of safe working conditions and social protection in the event of an accident at work. the number of illegal immigrants in the european union is estimated at between 4.5 and 8 million. the most common occupations are in the construction, agriculture, tourism, hotel and service sectors. there are cases of slave labor, exploitation and underage labor. this phenomenon has a significant impact on the lowering of employment standards. that is why it is so important that trade unions have the power to represent the interests of these workers. it is the employer who decides whether to hire an illegal immigrant, and therefore he should be punished for breaking the law. the whole area of the employment grey area requires the cooperation of all the countries of the european union.
the ease of access to illegal work has resulted in several million illegal immigrants in the european union. illegal employment, often in conditions of exploitation, leads to lower rates in the sector and also threatens competition between firms. in addition, unregistered workers are not entitled to health insurance and pension rights. it is therefore necessary to establish mechanisms enabling exploited workers to bring complaints against their employers, either in person or through third parties. i would also point out that the directive should also cover workers legally resident in the european union, in particular nationals of the member states which joined the union in 2004 and 2007 and who are still subject to the transitional provisions restricting access to legal employment.
madam president! i want to congratulate the rapporteur. i know that finding a compromise solution that would both serve the interests of the domestic labor market and protect immigrants from exploitation was not easy. claudio fava deserves to be recognized. i was in foggia, italy, shortly after the so-called 'work camps' were discovered, where both eu citizens and illegal immigrants worked and functioned side by side in tragic conditions. i remember the conditions in which they lived and worked, and how they often died from hunger and bad, inhuman treatment. i welcome this directive very much, because it finally civilizes the working relationship. it's a victory over the greed of employers, over their profit-seeking, cheap and often free labor, over the exploitation of illegal immigrants. in order to enter into force, this directive must be implemented in all member states. the paradox is that in our countries, domestic law provides for illegal employment as a reprehensible act, as a crime. and yet the law doesn't work. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that this directive is implemented. implement all legal mechanisms to ensure that this type of negative phenomenon does not happen again. and i want to say to my colleagues in the uk: tell your employers that illegal employment of immigrants is a crime. do not pretend that the union... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! i would like to return to the issue of sanctions for those employers who have subcontractors employing people illegally. well, that's a very worrying provision because the contractor has no way of checking whether or not the subcontractor is employing such people. if he even believes that, the question is, what's he supposed to do? should he report it to the police or break the contract? if he breaks the contract, he's liable to a lawsuit, where he'll have to prove the reasons why the contract was broken. he's not capable of providing such reasons. so i repeat, i am very concerned about this because it could lead to a situation where he is either dead or it could be the reason why the entrepreneurs are being unfairly and unnecessarily sanctioned.
madam president! i want to conclude my main speech by saying what i wanted to say to my british colleagues who complain that this directive is intrusive, that it interferes in the internal affairs of states. well, she doesn't interfere, she arranges things. i was just about to say to my british colleagues who are complaining, ask your employers to respect the rights of immigrants too, not to employ people who are in the uk illegally. then we can all agree that this is a good directive.
we're saying that one of the remedies for the negative effects of the demographic crisis may be migration. it is very important to encourage third-country nationals to come to the community to work. but we're only interested in legal residence and legal employment. the illegal foreign workers contribute to budgetary losses and distort healthy competition between businesses. the benefits of their work go primarily to their employers. with little effort, they have cheap labor at their disposal. foreigners from third countries are most often employed in the most difficult and lowest paid jobs. because of their difficult situation, they are willing to meet the demands of their employers, who often exploit their desperation. not only are they poorly paid, working without any social security, without health insurance, but they are also constantly at risk of deportation from their country of residence. the union should make it easier for immigrants to take up employment, and we should work towards that. i'm thinking here, for example, about jobs for ukrainian citizens in poland.
in writing. member states should strengthen cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration by strengthening action against illegal employment at eu member state level. one of the main incentives for illegal immigrants to come to the eu is the possibility of taking up work without having to regulate their legal status. action against illegal immigration and illegal residence should aim to eliminate this phenomenon. however, the illegal immigration directive should apply without prejudice to national law prohibiting the illegal employment of third-country nationals who are legally present on the territory of the member states but work in a manner inconsistent with their status as persons entitled to stay. the possibility of reducing financial penalties for employers employing third-country nationals should also be taken into account where the employer is a natural person. common definitions, methods and standards to combat illegal immigration are essential in the process of establishing a common european migration policy.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! let me begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the directive. the statistics on the number of illegal workers in the union are alarming. there is no doubt that we need to work closely together to fight illegal immigration. the fight against illegal employment is a priority of the eu's immigration strategy. the draft directive is not perfect: its scope could be broader and include citizens legally residing in the eu and employed under very unfavourable conditions. it would also be useful to extend the definition of employer to include temporary agency workers and employment intermediaries. despite its shortcomings, the project under discussion is commendable. true, employers are responsible for illegal employment. the directive imposes additional administrative obligations on them and provides for a number of different types of sanctions for failure to comply with them. but this does not mean that it is just a matter of punishing the employers. i would like to make it clear that our main objective is to eliminate exploitative employment. we cannot allow people to be employed in conditions that are cruel, inhuman, depriving them of basic rights and social benefits. i believe that this directive is necessary to achieve a minimum level of harmonisation of the provisions prohibiting illegal employment. i also hope that these rules will be effectively enforced by the member states.
mr president, i have a small linguistic, perhaps also semantic, observation. in paragraph a) we have in the various languages such a formulation a also recognizing the diversity of family patterns...'. if that means accepting diversity, then i will vote against it. i would like it to be clear, whether you only walk or walk, that we observe such models, or whether we recognize them, or accept them. we should know what we voted for.
mr. chairman, please! if we are to halt the progressive loss of biodiversity, the protection of europe's wildlands, forests and water bodies is a fundamental issue. for our joint action to be effective, it is necessary, firstly, to formulate clear definitions of wilderness areas and to locate them precisely on a map of the community. it is also necessary to develop a strategy based on expert analysis of the threats and mechanisms of degradation of wild areas. these include the invasion of alien species that compete with native organisms and the effects of climate change. another issue is tourism in a broad sense, and more specifically the implications of unsustainable or even aggressive tourism. in order to raise awareness among community citizens, it is important to carry out information campaigns, organise special funds within local government institutions and support grassroots initiatives.
mr. chairman, please! the common energy policy is one of the european union's most pressing challenges today. solidarity must be the basis for its creation. we are all aware of how important and at the same time difficult a trading partner russia remains. the fact that it is our main source of gas supply cannot, however, be taken lightly. the rapporteur suggests that the union's policy towards the russian federation should be relaxed. i think that we should have a fair but tough policy towards a trading partner that uses energy as a weapon of political pressure. it is emphasised that one of the key issues in the field of energy security is the diversification of energy sources. this should be reflected in the independence from russian supplies of raw materials. this includes the construction of the nabucco gas pipeline and the use of other supply routes.
mr. chairman, please! i supported the report drawn up by mrs zaborska, particularly because of the fact that it recognised the importance of women's domestic work. care, nursing, education and upbringing should be properly evaluated. if they're done outside the home, they're paid for and they're included in gdp. nobel laureate gary becker also points to the economic contribution of domestic workers to the economic output of society as a whole. as for the definition of family in polish, the term family means a relationship capable of procreation, and therefore this term does not apply to homosexual relationships.
in writing. - 'wildlife' is a term for the natural environment that has not been significantly altered by human activity. still, about 46 percent of the earth's surface is wilderness. a distinction is made between conservation (which implies the proper use of nature) and conservation, which means protecting nature from exploitation. i believe that nature should be protected, but through human action. europe is too small to ban its citizens from certain areas. these areas represent a special and exceptional value that can be exploited economically by developing new tourism products. at the same time, these areas are extremely vulnerable to the effects of human-induced environmental change. we have a moral obligation to ensure that future generations have the opportunity to explore and enjoy the truly wild places of europe. the development of sustainable tourism can be used as a way to give wildlife economic value and raise funds for conservation. in europe, an interesting initiative has been launched to combine programmes for wildlife and sustainable tourism the pan parks foundation, which aims to promote sustainable tourism in these areas. there is no need to introduce new wildlife legislation, but the european commission should develop appropriate recommendations to help eu member states identify the best ways to protect existing or potential wildlife areas that could be included in the natura 2000 network.
in writing. − research and development procurement in europe represents a small fraction of total public procurement. also, compared to the united states, where the public sector spends $50 billion a year on public procurement for r & d (that's 20 times the amount spent in europe), europe is not doing well, especially if we are serious about strengthening our innovation capacity. it is worth noting that many of the services and products available today would not have been possible without the involvement of public funds, such as the gps satellite navigation system and innovations in semiconductor technology. europe needs technological improvements in many areas: health, sustainable growth, security. for many of them, no commercial solutions are yet available or those that do exist still require r&d. pre-commercial procurement is one way of closing the gap between public sector demand and supply, offering public authorities the opportunity to improve their services. pre-commercial procurement is also a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. the innovation potential of smes is enormous and, thanks to the involvement of public funds, they have the opportunity to develop and sell their solutions to other customers.
in writing. − pre-commercial procurement is where the public sector buys research and development, thereby promoting innovation and ensuring a balanced and high level of public services. pre-commercial procurement is of great importance for strengthening the innovation capacity of the european union as a whole, improving public services directly provided to citizens and closing the gap between supply and demand in the public sector. an example of solutions developed on the basis of public procurement is the gps satellite navigation system. the united states spends 20 times as much on research and development contracts as the european union. the vast experience opportunities offered by public procurement to smes are an important issue. pre-commercial contracts benefit smaller companies, while they often do not meet the requirements of ordinary commercial public contracts. europe should develop comprehensive solutions as soon as possible to increase the use of the pre-commercial procurement mechanism not only by national authorities but also by local and regional authorities.
in writing. − the report on the second strategic energy review (laperrouze) included a paragraph supporting the southern gas pipeline. it is a twin project to the nord stream pipeline, which is designed to make the nabucco project impossible once and for all. the southern pipeline strengthens russia's position in the supply of energy resources and therefore cannot be considered as a diversification project in this respect.
in writing. - i supported the zaborska report. i believe that women, especially those who run a home and raise children, should not be discriminated against in the labour market. while housework and child rearing are unseen, unprivileged jobs, they are a service to society as a whole. there are about 6 million women housewives in poland. eu policy should therefore define the concept of work in such a way as to provide a range of benefits for women who are temporarily leaving their careers, as well as for those who are devoting themselves to their families or simply combining their professional and family life.
in writing. − today, a report on non-discrimination on grounds of sex and solidarity between generations was adopted by the european parliament in strasbourg during its plenary session. intergenerational solidarity is one of the structural and key features of the european social model. member states are obliged to take action to remove obstacles to equal participation of women and men in the labour market. the european commission, in cooperation with the member states and the social partners, should review policies for reconciling family life and working life. in many aspects of work (as evidenced by the employment rates of women), significant differences between women and men persist in terms of work-life balance. the lisbon strategy aims to ensure that 60% of women of working age are in employment. the commission should submit as soon as possible a proposal for a new directive on special rights and protection in the area of work-life balance in families with dependent persons (children, elderly and disabled persons).
in writing. - i supported the report and congratulate mrs angelilli on taking up this important and difficult subject. child pornography is a global problem on an increasing scale and therefore every step must be taken to combat it at international level. the police of the member states should exchange information and cooperate in order to prevent as many of these types of crime as possible. i also want to stress the need to develop effective methods of helping children who have been victims of paedophilia.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a routine and conservative interpretation of international law requires that guantanamo be closed unconditionally and immediately. but after 9/11, it's not routine. so even president barack obama, who is so keen to make a difference, has a serious problem with what to do with the people who are in guantanamo today. these are not random people. one in nine of those released so far has gone straight back to terrorist activity. so i would caution against giving good advice to america and the member states of the european union. there are three things absolutely certain about this case. we certainly have a duty to get our citizens and residents out of there. we also have a duty to effectively isolate those individuals who pose a serious threat. we should also consider reforming the geneva conventions to find a proper response to the problem of stateless terrorist armies. unfortunately, none of these issues were properly addressed in the draft resolution.
the president of the european parliament, mr pöttering, was in the chair when mr schulz spoke, and so this is a question for mr pöttering; i do not see that it has any connection with my being in the chair. you should raise the matter again when mr pöttering is in the chair.
mr president, what are we to do with the former inmates of guantánamo bay? how do we strike the right balance between ensuring the security of eu citizens and finding a place to settle former inmates? firstly, let me make it clear that i for one am not discussing inmates deemed to be dangerous but unsuitable for trial by the united states, and please remember that such a sizeable group still exists. but even those cleared of charges and deemed to be no risk at all still, in my opinion, pose a risk. we have legitimate fears because, according to the pentagon, 61 former inmates cleared of all charges and subsequently released are now reported to be engaged in terrorist activities. one is the deputy head of al-qa’ida in yemen, and one has blown himself up. yesterday president obama stated on public television that he cannot be sure whether inmates cleared and released will not pose a security threat. can we be asked to take that risk in the eu? well i think we can be asked, but we must have the right to decide whether that risk is acceptable to us or not. member states have shown different degrees of willingness to take former inmates. i stress that the decision to accept inmates must be the sovereign one of the member state. it cannot be forced upon a member state by the eu, but neither can it be made in isolation. given the freedom of movement we enjoy in europe, especially the border-free europe of the schengen zone, member states’ decisions to allow guantánamo bay inmates to settle in their country has security implications not only for that member state, but also for its neighbours. therefore i require, and we require, that such decisions are consulted with other eu members.
mr. chairman, please! after barack obama was elected president of the united states and signed the agreement on the future abolition of guantanamo, there was an unhealthy excitement in this house. i'm speaking to my colleagues from the disbanded cia commission, who, as i recall, were unable to come to any conclusions, despite their outrage and their condemnation of the extraordinary rendition. now we know that the new president has seen the seriousness of the problem, modifying his campaign position and shortly after taking the oath of office, he extends the authorization to use the current methods against terrorists. we are aware that for many countries of the european union, including poland, it is impossible to accept arrested terrorists. however, the countries of the union and our parliament, instead of criticising and weakening the front against terrorism, should cooperate with the united states and take part of the responsibility for fighting this phenomenon. i would like to remind you once again that terrorism is a global threat, which also affects the citizens of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the terrorists have declared a war on our civilization, ruthless, bloody, cruel. they want to destroy our world built on respect for human rights and the value of freedom. the 9/11 attacks showed that they are prepared to use any means necessary. the united states has taken up the defense of the free world on behalf of all of us. only close cooperation between europe and the united states can give hope for success and break up terrorist networks. europe must feel responsible for fighting global terrorism. it is good that human rights defenders have drawn attention to the violation of these rights, to the use of harassing methods in guantanamo in investigations, which often turn into torture, to detention without trial, without the right to defenders. measures which are considered unacceptable in the light of the international conventions signed may not be used. the newly elected president of the united states has already issued an executive order banning torture during interrogation of terror suspects. this can and should be seen as a success for all those who have sounded the alarm. however, the possibility of abducting terrorists and short-term detention in transit countries will continue to exist, as is apparent from the same regulation. in short, the respect for the dignity of prisoners will increase, but at the same time, we must be able to effectively stop terrorist activity, otherwise we may be at a loss. i would also like to draw the house's attention to the fact that on the same island where guantanamo bay is located, political prisoners are being held in conditions that violate all norms, and they have been sentenced to long prison terms for daring to oppose the communist propaganda of fidel castro's satrapy. the chechen people were murdered before our eyes. i am not aware of any special committee being set up by the european parliament on this matter. the united states has recognized that the use of torture is unacceptable, as is the existence of secret prisons, and that should end the debate on secret prisons and transit flights.
mr. chairman, please! i am convinced that our profoundly humanitarian resolution will contribute to reducing the hostility between europe and the islamic world. i also ask that it be accepted in the context of my fellow countrymen who have fallen victim to the war on terror, the war of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. a 42-year-old pole was abducted, kidnapped on the afghanistan-pakistan border. he's a geologist who worked there. he's been held there ever since. his family says, "i know that piotr is of little value to the world of big politics, but i hope you will do everything to free him". i appeal to you to use this improvement in relations with the islamic world to defend and protect our citizens. i appeal to you: let us be united! let us act for the citizens of the european union who are being mistreated, detained, kidnapped, in camps!
there are two sides to this case, your honor. first, the legal aspect: i believe that citizens of the country should be accepted back in their country of origin. if there are obstacles to this, such as political persecution, then perhaps a humanitarian programme should be provided for. but i'll say this briefly: even if portugal or another country agrees to take 20 of these prisoners, it doesn't mean that they will want to stay in portugal or in that other country. the union is now one, and so we must address this problem. one last thing: these people must be removed using proper procedures, stigmatizing that they are suspicious or dangerous. without that kind of stigma lifting, no one will want to take people like that in. so this is a serious problem to consider. and finally, this is a problem primarily of the united states of america.
vice-president of the commission. − i can assure you that the commission always tries to be balanced. given that my colleagues, commissioners michel and ferrero-waldner, have also condemned the attacks on israel, they have condemned both sides for the use of violent tools and violence. we try to be balanced and to consider all aspects of this very complex conflict.
vice-president of the commission. − the safer internet programme, a predecessor of the programme which is now being launched, was considered a real success. the commission is convinced that the next one will also be a success. the safer internet programme is a unique pan-european initiative through which the eu helps combat illegal content and harmful conduct online and increase awareness of child safety online among the european public. it facilitates national actions and initiatives in a coordinated fashion. as pointed out by the honourable member, the new safer internet programme, which will run for five years from 2009 to 2013, has a total budget of eur 55 million and will be implemented through annual work programmes. the 2009 work programme is currently subject to commission inter-service consultation. the commission will then seek the programme management committee’s favourable opinion. thereafter, this document will be uploaded to the comitology register in order to allow the european parliament to exercise its 30-day right of scrutiny, which should take place between the end of march and the beginning of april. the work programme defines the content criteria and indicative budget of the call for proposals which will be launched in 2009. the call for proposals will be open to all legal entities established in the member states. it is also open to legal entities established in efta states that are contracting parties to the eea agreement – norway, iceland and liechtenstein. it is, furthermore, open to legal entities established in other countries provided that a bilateral agreement is signed. the 2009 work programme is the first of five, and so will be a building block for the activities to be carried out over the whole lifetime of the programme. according to the current draft, its priorities are to empower and protect children by introducing new actions and continuing actions started under the previous safer internet plus programme, ensuring coverage of awareness activities, helplines and hotlines throughout the member states, strengthening coordination at european level and also ensuring value for money by obtaining maximum impact with the financial resources available, namely eur 11 million per year.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i congratulate you on this important initiative. i have a question. the programme also envisages the creation of special contact points in each country to coordinate the programme. does the commissioner know anything about this and what would that look like?
member of the commission. − in any case, in all the european commission documents, we work with the understanding that in an ageing population, more and more people will be involved in caring for a loved one. equally, gender balance is very clearly observed, because one of the risks of spontaneous development is that it is women who take on a much greater degree of responsibility for family members who are in some way debilitated, and at present they are very often very old people. the funding of these people is a matter for the member states. member states may develop a variety of schemes to support carers and some similar scheme exists in most member states. if you mentioned the european social fund, the european social fund obviously cannot take over the funding of care for people who are dependent, but it can develop and help develop a whole range of substantial programmes for these people. and if i mentioned education, it's really about, if you want to care for someone that you need and that you're emotionally attached to, then despite all of our efforts and our good will, caring for someone else is actually a kind of professionalism, and so it's very good that these people get the basic knowledge, the basic experience, because it's a great improvement in the quality of care for them, and it's a great relief for them. so that's one of the reasons why we're going in this direction. i would like to highlight one more thing that has not been mentioned but that we are also dealing with, which is the abuse or mistreatment of the elderly. in most cases, it is again shown that the abuse is not caused by some general character flaw of the people who perpetrated it, but very often it is caused by situational failure. it's just that the task is too difficult and they can't do it. we want to do this through the european social fund.
member of the commission. − madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, in implementing the lisbon strategy, the european union has set itself an ambitious target: to reduce poverty significantly by 2010. since then, the union has been setting up instruments to achieve this objective. the open method of coordination on protection and social inclusion has helped to strengthen the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to support member states' efforts. this cooperation between member states is producing very good results. i will give three examples: 22 member states have now set themselves a numerical target for combating child poverty; citizens and society are now very closely involved in national poverty reduction strategies; social inclusion strategies have been incorporated into many policy areas: employment, education and training, health and housing. all relevant policies are therefore involved in the fight against social exclusion. the renewed social agenda, adopted by the commission on 2 july 2008, sets out seven priority areas of action, including the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the renewed social agenda also proposes to strengthen the open method of coordination. the european plan to boost growth and jobs, presented to heads of state and government at the european summit in december 2008, aims to counter the effects of the financial and economic crisis while strengthening the reforms already under way under the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the commission also undertook to monitor regularly the social impact of the financial and economic crisis in the member states and the measures taken at national level. this tool for monitoring the social impact of the crisis must be published every three months, naturally focusing in particular on the most vulnerable groups. the commission will also continue to work with member states to ensure the effective implementation of its recommendation on the active inclusion of people furthest away from the labour market, adopted in october 2008. in particular, that recommendation aims to increase the effectiveness of minimum income systems, which are still underdeveloped in many member states. it is essential to enable every citizen to achieve a decent standard of living, especially in the current crisis. i would also like to recall that 2010 will be the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. it will focus on promoting respect for the rights and opportunities of socially excluded people to actively re-integrate into society, highlighting the responsibility of each member of society in the fight against poverty, disseminating good practices on social inclusion, strengthening the commitments of key political actors. i therefore believe that the measures i have just mentioned are evidence of europe's continuing efforts to address the needs of the most vulnerable groups in a concrete way, particularly in the current economic situation. i hope that member states will respond positively to the commission's calls to address the social consequences of the crisis. to this end, they may make use of the community instruments at their disposal, in particular the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund.
member of the commission. − the commission's strategy is to confront any discrimination, any breach of the principle of equal opportunities, even in this economically difficult situation. you know very well, of course, that european legislation allows for positive action, that is to say action targeted at groups in very difficult situations. in general, in its proposals now before parliament, the commission is making it easier, or if they are adopted, it wants to make it easier, to use the european social fund and the globalisation fund, so in principle i can say that there are no obstacles, in terms of regulations, in terms of structure, to a significant part of these funds going towards young people. this is a matter for the decision of the individual project promoters, local communities, national level, it is already an open question, but in principle there are no obstacles to the effective use for the benefit of young people or other groups in a particularly difficult situation.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tabajdi, respect for minorities is an essential principle which is one of the preconditions for the accession of a new country to the union. the copenhagen criteria are specifically aimed at the countries applying for membership of the union. respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including respect for the principle of non-discrimination, is a principle on which the union is founded. but the union has no general competence in the field of the protection of minority rights. it is up to the national authorities to ensure such protection, in accordance with their constitutional order and their international commitments. the question of the institutional organisation or autonomy of minorities is therefore a matter for the member states. similarly, it is up to each member state to decide whether to sign or ratify the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, which are the two major instruments put in place by the council of europe. the union therefore does not have the competence to adopt, as suggested in the question, general legislation setting standards for the protection of minorities and control mechanisms. but the union can adopt measures on certain matters within its competence which have a positive impact on the situation of persons belonging to minorities. for example, as regards the commission's policy against discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin or religion, it is necessary to ensure that community legislation in this field is implemented and that the directive supplementing this legislation is implemented. the adoption on 28 november of the framework decision against racism and xenophobia is another example. through this framework decision, the union is contributing to improving the situation of persons belonging to minorities in relation to certain behaviour to which they are subject. the union also focused on the situation of the roma minority. the integration of immigrants is a topic of increasing importance for the member states and the european union. in 2005, the commission presented a common programme for integration, which provides the framework for a common approach to integration in the european union. and the union has allocated a budget of €825 million for 2007-2013 to implement the european integration fund. three new commission initiatives will be launched in 2009: the third edition of the handbook on integration, the european integration forum to further involve civil society in our work, and an integration website, a one-stop shop to bring together information on integration and facilitate the exchange of good practice among all those involved in integration. the role of the european union in the field of multilingualism is not to replace the action of the member states but to support and complement this action. the european commission's policy on multilingualism includes regional languages as well as languages spoken by minorities. respect for linguistic and cultural diversity is one of the cornerstones of the european union. and this respect for linguistic and cultural diversity is now part of the european charter of fundamental rights, which states in article 22: 'the union shall respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity'. the latest commission communication, adopted in september 2008, also states that each of the many languages, whether national, regional or spoken by minorities or immigrants, adds to our common culture. the main tools available to the union in this area are its funding programmes, and in particular the lifelong learning programme 2007-2013. finally, the european union agency for fundamental rights is a very valuable tool for us in collecting data for the development and implementation of all these community instruments and policies. following the european parliament's request to the fundamental rights agency, which is based in vienna, the agency's work programme for 2009 provides for a comparative report on the situation of ethnic and racial discrimination in the european union, which will allow us to update the 2007 report on racism. that's all i could say. in other words, we have no legal basis for organising the protection of minorities. this is really a matter for the member states. but, on the other hand, the union must of course avoid any discrimination against a citizen belonging to a minority.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: some minority groups have lived in our member states for centuries, others for a short time. the traditional minority group, which has been present in the eu countries for practically all time, includes the roma. i am sad to say that in my country - poland - although roma are not discriminated against, their level of integration leaves much to be desired. they think so too. i think they need more help from the state, especially help in vocational training and in general in getting an education. the member states should play a leading role in the integration of this or that minority group, but common eu legislation would be very helpful in this respect. especially in defining the rights and responsibilities of newcomers from muslim countries who are having a hard time integrating in europe.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i listened to the speeches with great attention and i am aware of the passion which sometimes underpinned these positions. mr tabajdi has just mentioned a whole series of problems. i am well aware that these problems exist. however, once again, although with some regret, but i cannot help it, i must remind you that the protection of groups, of national minorities as groups, is not a matter for the union or even for the fundamental rights agency. nevertheless, and i have been very vocal about this, the agency will address ethnic and racial discrimination when it updates the 2007 report on racism. but, as i said, the treaties do not give the european union, the commission or the agency any competence in this area. the open method of coordination has been mentioned, but it also implies that there is a competence. it is quite clear that if the council were to change its position, it might open up new avenues. but for the moment we are mainly concerned with combating discrimination which may affect persons belonging to minorities. now, we need to be very clear. we have the means at community level to combat discrimination. article 13 of the treaty establishing the european community has provided the legal basis for two directives: the directive of 29 june 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and the directive of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. so on this side we do indeed have the will to fight against all forms of discrimination against citizens belonging to a minority. in fact, at my request, the fundamental rights agency will undertake a very, very thorough study of all these discriminations. that's what i can answer. i cannot go any further because we do not have the legal means. the member states do not allow us to do that. that said, the situation of the roma in the european union, for example, is indeed deplorable. their integration is a priority for the union and the commission. this was reaffirmed at the first european roma summit on 16 september, which i attended with president barroso and commissioner špidla. following this summit, a european roma platform will be set up by my colleague špidla. this flexible structure will make it possible to meet challenges at the level of the european union. however, caution is also needed. the commission believes that an ethnic approach would be counterproductive. i would like to conclude by saying that i was sensitive to what was said. it is clear that the european union's strength lies precisely in solving the problem of conflicts between minorities and majorities in a given state. but it is true that the european union is currently a federation of nation states and in this respect it is difficult for us to go beyond that. however, there is nothing to prevent the exchange of good practices, best practices, in an informal way. you mentioned the very good practices in some of the states which later joined the european union. well, perhaps we should be able to draw on these good practices to inspire other examples of this kind. i can say this, mr president, and i regret that i cannot give a better answer, but i must be quite clear about what the european union is in its present state of affairs. that being said, once again, if there is discrimination against individuals belonging to a minority, you can be sure that i will be absolutely firm because i intend to enforce this non-discrimination, which the charter of fundamental rights will institutionalize very firmly, i hope, thanks to the ratification of lisbon.
in writing. no state in europe today denies the rights of minorities. in keeping with the eu's motto 'united in diversity', we are building a multicultural europe where national minorities live and enjoy full political and civil rights alongside the great monolithic nations. it seems that europe is in agreement on this point and no one who questions the rights of minorities will be applauded today! minority rights are enshrined in the legal systems of individual eu member states and are also enshrined in many international agreements. therefore, i was surprised to receive the ruling of the lithuanian supreme administrative court of january 30, which declared that it was illegal to "place polish street names next to lithuanian street names" and ordered the vilnius district administration to remove the polish language inscriptions within one month. the fact that poles make up as much as 70% of the population in the vilnius area and that street signs with polish names are almost commonplace adds spice to the matter. this is despite lithuania having signed the european charter of local self-government and ratified the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities (1995), which allows the use of minority languages, including for street names (article 11). it is difficult to understand why lithuania, a member of the eu for five years, disregards eu standards and does not guarantee national minority rights on its territory.
in writing. the issue of national minority rights in eu countries is an important human rights issue, but as experience shows, it is also sometimes used to spread revisionism and undermine borders in europe. there is no doubt that the right to use one's own language, to maintain one's traditional culture and customs is one of the rights that must be promoted. in the eu today, it is common for some minorities to demonstrate a desire to return certain territories to the state with which they identify nationally, and thus provoke the majority to act in a counter-measure. there are also cases of ignoring a minority of one million by not assigning them minority status. this is the case, for example, with poles in germany, which is a violation of the fundamental rights of minorities. another issue is the influx of people from outside europe. of course, it has the right to its own culture and language, but it cannot create its own territories, to which it can directly transfer the law of its country of origin. if they come to us, they have to assimilate into the state and bear the responsibility of citizenship for the countries they settle in.
madam president! i feel like i'm at the founding convention of a new religion, a false religion, full of false prophets and false ideas. in the face of this crisis, which is the responsibility of the same political forces that are seeking to radically reduce carbon emissions at the expense of human civilization, without scientific basis, those who are seeking to create a world government composed of the same groups that will make huge money on emissions trading, while being able to deceive people with small threats of climate change, should be blamed. we need to create the foundation for energy development. the european union is a major player in the world economy, with a large share of its energy coming from renewable sources. don't you understand? if you create what has been passed today, you will reduce europe's chances of competing with the world.
madam president! the main objective of climate policy, as well as the energy and climate package with its drastic reduction of greenhouse gases, is to control and transform the national character of economies towards the centrally controlled economy we have known in the past. the abstract concept of human influence on climate is to be carried out by limiting development opportunities, including the use of fossil fuels, introducing dangerous ccs technologies, which will make it difficult for poland to use natural resources, including rich sources of geothermal energy. after the liquidation of polish industry as part of the adjustment to the european union, the attempt is not only to force poles to emigrate, but to impoverish the rest by imposing the highest energy prices of all the countries of the european union. the rhetorical question remains: is the main objective of eu policy the bankruptcy of my countrymen and the erasure of poland from the map of europe?
madam president! i wanted to join in congratulating and thanking karl-heinz florenz for his good report. i don't want to go into the details of that report. for me, it's just something that i can accept. i would like to return to the climate package we adopted in december and stress that the european union does have a very balanced package that does not threaten the economy. in the course of several months of discussion, we have made far-reaching changes to this package. this is our big break. i would now like to outline the two most important tasks for the european union. the first task is to ensure that the financing of what we have adopted, the package, and the financing resulting from the florence report, is adequate. last year i was rapporteur for the set-plan and we talked above all about the fact that new technologies that can give the european economy innovation and new economic momentum must be funded at the european union level in the first place. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission, and i congratulate commissioner dimas, on the decision to allocate eur 3.5 billion of the unused funds to investments and research in energy technologies, which also serve to protect the climate. commissioner, this is a very good decision. now we have to get it through parliament fast. i would ask minister bursík that the council should also consider this preliminary decision of the european commission quickly. the second very important thing is that we have to rely on a global agreement. that was the premise of the florence report. it is not enough for two countries - poland and copenhagen - responsible for cop 14 and cop 15 to negotiate. we all need to be involved, not just the czech presidency. our diplomats should be negotiating all over the world, because without this global agreement, our package and the florence report are of little importance. that's what's important to us today.
madam president! it will be a long time before politicians realize that it is not coal burning but solar activity that is causing climate change. it will take even longer to convince societies that this is the case, as they are being fooled by the environmental propaganda. since the earth's climate is dependent on events in space, it must be admitted that man's attempts to influence the climate are doomed to failure. there have been many periods of warming and increased carbon dioxide in the air, but the warming has always occurred several centuries before the increase in carbon dioxide. during the ice ages, the air was cooler, but still had up to a dozen times more carbon dioxide than it does today. if this were recognized, humanity could save billions of dollars by giving up activities that don't make sense. this money can be used to fight poverty and new technologies. if you don't know what it is, it's about money, it's about emissions trading. that's a good one! what a climatic masterpiece!
madam president! in the preamble to this report, mr florenz refers to his earlier report on the scientific facts on climate change, in which i unfortunately found no facts other than a belief in the infallibility of the ipcc reports. both the current resolution and the one of may 2008 cannot therefore in any way legitimise the political decisions of the european commission, as they lack an objective scientific approach. only a coherent climate change model that takes into account all the variables, i.e. the impact of greenhouse gases, suspended particles and, above all, solar activity, would explain the usefulness of these decisions. the report's content unilaterally emphasizes the hypothetical mechanism of warming, i.e. co2 emissions, overlooking the need for international action to combat the actual effects of climate change. the interim commission on climate change has focused unilaterally on the problem of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and marginally on combating the real effects of climate change.
in writing. in taking part in the debate on climate policy for 2050, i would like to draw attention to the following points. if the united states and the countries of south-east asia do not join the co2 reduction programme with the same commitment as the european union, the enormous financial effort and the inevitable economic slowdown of the european union will prove to be a very high price for the negligible reduction of co2 emissions. the european union accounts for only 14% of global emissions, while the us and south east asian countries account for nearly 80% of these emissions. 2.committing individual member states to a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020, while also having to buy emission allowances, will mean significant increases in electricity and heat prices for households, and even higher energy price increases for industry, especially in new member states such as poland, where the energy sector is based on coal. this could result in the elimination of many energy-intensive industries in these countries, with all the negative social consequences that this would entail. 3.the achievements in reducing co2 emissions in the new member states should be noted, in particular in poland, where a major restructuring of the economy between 1990 and 2005 resulted in a co2 reduction of around 30%, with huge social costs and unemployment of over 20% for many years of that period.
madam president, four months ago a polish engineer was kidnapped in pakistan. he is being held by his taliban captors, who threaten to execute him today if their demands are not met. i appeal to this house to support the governments of poland and pakistan in their efforts to secure the release of my countryman.
madam president! i also want to comment on this directive. i voted against because i am deeply convinced that this is a document that is extremely dangerous and harmful to the development of europe. he confuses the obvious need for rational environmental protection with the totally false notion that man can influence cyclical climate change. this part, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, is the most important part of the document. the enormous sums of money, estimated at hundreds of billions, spent on this purpose will be completely wasted, and could be used to build a real ecological and energy security of the european union. this is a very bad and tragic solution.
madam president! the european economy is the largest importer of hydrocarbons. the increase in their prices, due to demand and the increase in the cost of obtaining them, can have a significant impact on the lowering of the standard of living of citizens and the competitiveness of the union economy. in this situation, energy saving work and the deployment of clean energy sources that already produce energy at stable and relatively low prices can counteract this. the use of scientific research and its technical application will automatically reduce co2 emissions. on the other hand, the promotion of controversial theories and the fear of co2 adds no added value and hinders the technical and material process that guarantees the reduction of co2 and hydrocarbons used for energy purposes. i support any technical or scientific measures that reduce the use of hydrocarbons. i cannot, however, agree with the philosophy expressed in mr florenz's report. i don't support the report.
madam president! although 70 percent of the earth's surface is water, its resources, especially those that are drinkable, are dwindling at an alarming rate. more and more areas of the globe are threatened by water scarcity. the faster the growth, the greater the demand for water. studies have shown that as societies get richer, they have a greater need for water. without water, there is no progress. many parts of the world are on the brink of disaster, and the current water situation could lead to a situation where water is not just a matter of dispute but a matter of war. success depends on the material situation of the countries, not on their military capability. water shortages will lead to a food crisis in a very short time. an appropriate integrated policy is needed to contribute to the conservation and restoration of water resources. we need to rationalize water use.
madam president! one of the major challenges facing the european union in the near future is the demographic crisis. low birth rates and longer life expectancies mean that our society is getting older, and fewer and fewer people are having to bear the cost of living. the lack of people to work in some occupations leads to the employment of illegal immigrants, whose labour costs are much lower. illegal employment should be punished and its negative consequences should be borne first by employers and then by workers. the directive imposes appropriate administrative requirements on employers. however, they should not be excessive as they may have a negative impact on the situation of persons legally residing in the union and holding a work permit. the obligations on employers to examine the documents presented may discourage them from employing foreigners and consequently lead to a decline in the employment rate and contribute to a weakening of the labour market.
in writing. - climate change has been the subject of 13 european parliament resolutions in different legislative periods. despite the efforts of both the commission and parliament, the issue has remained controversial. the report by karl-heinz florenz does not improve the situation of those who are not convinced that human activities are the decisive factor in climate change, which has been governed by the laws of nature alone for millions of years. the idea of an integrated european policy is another matter. given that the report does not refer to the specific situation of the new member states, let alone acknowledge their efforts to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions since 1989, there can be no question of an integrated approach. the goals of different countries are entitled to differ. countries must have the right to choose their energy technology. in the context of the recommendation to the commission to set a binding target of 20% increase in energy efficiency, there seems to be a reasonable suspicion of a disguised promotion of expensive foreign technologies for this purpose.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the florence report entitled 2050: the future starts today - a recommendation for the eu's future integrated climate policy. the report was prepared by the interim commission on climate change, which was set up in june 2007. the report is a list of recommendations for reducing carbon emissions that should be implemented by the community institutions (mainly the european commission) and the member states. action at local level will also be necessary to achieve the objectives. climate change is rapid and has serious negative effects. the eu and the group of industrialised countries should adopt a target of reducing greenhouse gases by 25% to 40% by 2020 and, in the longer term, aim to reduce emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to 1999. other recommendations included in the report include partnership with third countries in the mediterranean on solar energy production, achieving net zero energy consumption in new residential buildings by 2015 and in new buildings by 2020, with the possibility of extending this target in the longer term to include renovated buildings. it also includes the creation of a european renewable energy community to support research and development into breakthrough technologies.
in writing. - i supported a resolution on improving energy efficiency through the use of information and communication technologies. itcs should become the future solution in virtually all energy-using appliances, enabling huge savings in energy consumption. failure to do so could lead to a significant increase in energy demand in the coming years (around 25% in 4 years). the biggest savings are possible in the electricity generation and transmission sector. the efficiency of the generation of this energy should be improved by about 40% and its distribution by about 10%. itcs will contribute both to better management of the energy grid and to facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources. ict will also bring significant savings in heating, air-conditioning and lighting in buildings. all of this will contribute to a significant reduction in co2 emissions both per unit of energy and on a global scale. these technologies, including micro- and nanoelectronic components and systems themselves, as well as many advanced techniques (e.g. photonics), will increase competitiveness and create new opportunities for business and the labour market. taking into account that energy efficiency improvements are reductions in energy consumption in the generation, transmission, distribution and final consumption phases of energy, due to technological changes, behavioural changes and economic changes, providing the same level of comfort and services, modern itcs should be used as widely as possible.
in writing. − the issue of the european union's energy security has been raised on many occasions in the european parliament, especially by the representatives of the new member states. the crisis that has hit many eu countries in recent weeks has shown us clearly enough how real the threat of gas supply being cut off is and how ill-prepared we are to deal with its effects. europe must finally start thinking and acting in solidarity! it is necessary to create the appropriate transmission infrastructure, support mechanisms for countries that will be deprived of raw materials, diversification of their sources of origin, search for alternative gas sources, as well as the creation of a system of saving and improving the efficiency of gas use. i'm aware that each of these demands has been raised many times before, but what's the point if it's still all part of the plan?
in writing. - i welcome the decision by the president of the united states, barack obama, to close the prison at guantanamo bay. obama, during his campaign, made closing the notorious prison a top priority. the return and resettlement of guantanamo detainees may represent an important shift in us policy towards respect for fundamental rights, humanitarian law and international law. now, every prisoner should be tried and, if found guilty, sentenced to serve time in the united states. the return of persons who have not been charged and who voluntarily agree to be repatriated should be carried out as soon as possible. prisoners who cannot be returned to their country of origin because of the risk of torture or persecution should be granted the right to remain in the united states, humanitarian protection, and compensation. there are currently about 242 prisoners at guantanamo. some of them only because there is no country to which they can safely return. these are people who have never been charged with anything. the fight against terrorism has been and remains a priority of both the european union and the united states foreign policy. however, it must be clearly stated that it must always be conducted in full respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the original sin in the birth of the new state in kosovo was the feeling among the serb minority in kosovo and metohija, and in serbia itself, that the new statehood was, like the entire muslim majority, directed against the serbs. this must have affected belgrade's relations with pristina and certainly also relations between kosovars and serbs from ethnic serb enclaves. failure to respect the cultural, educational and religious rights of the serbian minority will not only complicate the situation in bilateral relations between kosovo and serbia and the wider balkans, but will also undoubtedly lengthen pristina's path to the european union. i agree with what my honourable predecessor, mr lebech, said. the authorities of this country must understand that respect for minority rights is a european standard. we must be very careful and look to our partners in kosovo for help in this.
madam president! the serbian province of kosovo was unilaterally decided by the albanian community to secede from serbia. i personally think this is an unprecedented example of a violation of international law, which has further consequences, as we saw last year in the caucasus. i remind you that the united nations has not recognized the decision of the kosovar albanians. un security council resolution 1244 is still in force. i therefore caution against making any decision until the international court of justice in the hague has ruled on the matter. only then will we know the legal status of the province, which according to international law is still an integral part of the republic of serbia. i would like to draw attention to the still dramatic situation of the serb community in the self-proclaimed republic of kosovo. let us be frank: the recognition of the european union by some of its members was a fatal mistake. kosovo is simply serbian.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. european governments provide automotive companies with significant financial support, amounting to tens of billions of euros. the german government decided to support car users in addition to supporting german manufacturers. anyone who decides to break into their old car will receive 2,500 euros. the european commission, which has so far strictly enforced the rules on state aid to enterprises, is very quick to agree to these moves in all these cases, generally aligning its decisions with previous decisions of member state governments on these matters. without questioning the validity of this kind of action on the automotive industry in europe, i would like to remind once again how grossly unfair the decision of the european commission was on the need to return public aid granted to the shipbuilding industry by the polish government. as a result of this decision, some 50 000 jobs are being eliminated directly in the polish shipbuilding industry, and tens of thousands of jobs will disappear in the future in the cooperative sector.
in writing. the european union's economy is considered to be the world's largest. on the one hand, it places us in a position of special responsibility for the actions we take within the internal market. secondly, the global economy, of which the union is the leader, has very specific consequences. one of them is the difficulty in defining which car manufacturer is the truly european one. the numerous mergers, the creation of global manufacturing groups and the presence of american and asian companies on the domestic market for decades have created the foundations for the diversity and competitiveness of europe's automotive sector. it seems right that the first principle we must follow in creating an aid package for the eu economy is to ensure that the principles of the free market and its competitiveness are preserved. it should also be borne in mind that the automotive industry, which has been so severely affected by the financial crisis, is one of the many links in the chain of the european economy. this leads to the acceptance of the line proposed by the presidency, namely the development of a general approach addressed to all players in the internal market. the effect of this approach should be to stimulate the demand side of the market, the quality of which is the condition of the economy. the assistance mechanism should also result in the use of support for targeted investments in technological innovation, in line with road safety and environmental performance guidelines.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to say that i do not share this very critical tone towards what the council has presented today and on its behalf the deputy prime minister. i think that the real question here is not whether there is a treaty or not, but whether european solidarity is a concept used only in political declarations or whether it is a political practice, a practice that involves citizens of different member states. if the latter, the treaty is not a necessary condition. when slovenia held the presidency of the european union, france represented the union in many countries, for example in asia, africa and latin america, because slovenia did not have an embassy there. i wonder whether now, if the citizens of slovenia, as well as the citizens of other smaller member states, had gone to the french consulate in those countries, they would have received the appropriate help. that's a good question, you know. the concept of european solidarity needs to be broadened. i think that the treaty of lisbon is not really a sine qua non here.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think it was, again, a very useful debate. i have a considerable understanding of how important this is for you as members of the european parliament because this is an extremely sensitive issue, where you are confronted with the expectations of your citizens, who are going to elect you in the next few months. so i have a full understanding of the issue that you are considering with care and that you are approaching with such critical insight. the second reason why i have an understanding is that i come from a medium-sized state, the czech republic, which is not a former imperial power so it does not have an embassy or a consulate in every corner of the world. so what the irish and others are expecting from the european union here is, i think, very logical. but now i have to speak here on behalf of the council so you need to respect certain legal grounds which are available to us, and the fact is that the budget and all those issues are important. and we also have to be able to recognise and to differentiate what is the real problem on the one hand and what is the question or issue which needs more clarification. i was not in mumbai, and i was listening very carefully to the critical remarks of mr guardans cambó and some others who took part in the european parliament mission to india at the time that this tragic attack happened. when i was getting ready for the special hearing yesterday, my first question was: is there a spanish consulate in mumbai? i have never been there so i do not know this personally. i was repeatedly assured that the spanish have a consulate in mumbai and those that were there know this. i think it was simply a matter of a formal obligation for the germans to assist mr guardans cambó and his delegation, if we are quoting article 20 and the decision as a whole. the spanish sent a plane, as i was informed, to help evacuate its citizens, as did the french and the germans. for some reason, which i do not understand, mr guardans cambó refused the offer to fly back on the spanish plane but instead subsequently returned on the french plane. so i do not know. i just have the information which is available to me. in general i think we all share the opinion that any improvement within the legal framework is certainly desirable, so let me inform you about at least some partial activities of the czech presidency to strengthen the consular protection within the current legal framework. for example, there is a project on including a message in national passports which would inform the holders that they can ask for consular protection from any other member state embassy or consulate in a third country, provided their country is not represented there. so that is at least an attempt to clarify the situation on the ground. second, the presidency is to intensify and unify the use of emergency travel documents, the etds which can be issued by any member state representation to any member state citizen who has lost his passport or had it stolen. third and finally, the presidency will also organise the two consular seminars or training courses in order to contribute to this consular protection team in a very practical and effective way. these events will deal with the cca system, simulating a real consular crisis. the training will define and carry out practical testing of all relevant mechanisms in the cca cadre, including cooperation between all authorities and institutions involved. the experience will even, by means of field work, teach the participants how to behave and promptly react in a situation of extreme psychological and time pressure. i do not know whether this will amuse us enough before the elections, but at least it is a contribution which we are bringing to this important issue.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the treaties do not confer any power of initiative on the commission in the field of consular protection. within its limited powers, the commission is trying to boost, as much as it can, the effectiveness of the citizenship rights european citizens are entitled to – see, for example, the commission action plan 2007-2009. i repeat that the adoption of the lisbon treaty would certainly very much improve this situation. i hope that mrs sinnott, who shared her experience with us, will use the fact that the lisbon treaty would change the situation and her experience to help to organise support for the lisbon treaty in ireland. the deplorable events in mumbai show that, already today, there is a clearly a huge margin for improvement if we are to fulfil the legitimate expectations of eu citizens.
on the tape. the increasing mobility of eu citizens requires the adaptation of the existing consular protection rules to the new situation. eu citizens must be granted protection and assistance by their own country, through its diplomatic missions and consular posts (article 3 of the vienna convention on diplomatic relations and article 1 of the vienna convention on consular relations) and, under the maastricht treaty, additional diplomatic and consular protection for eu citizens outside the community, as a result of their european union citizenship. in practice, this means that every citizen of the union enjoys, in the territory of a third country where the member state of which he is a national is not represented, the diplomatic and consular protection of each of the other member states on the same conditions as the nationals of that state. unfortunately, the crisis in bombay last year, caused by the bombings, has demonstrated the inadequacy of many diplomatic missions in the practical application of the common provisions on the security of union citizens. the procedural problems encountered by dozens of europeans, including the european parliament delegation on the spot, and the disproportionately long waiting times for duplicates of lost documents have shown that the idea of european solidarity is not easy to achieve! the right to consular protection in third countries is one of the main determinants of european citizenship. member states should make every effort to implement it properly, ensuring equal treatment and care for all community citizens.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the market for feed and its use in animal production is of great importance as it affects the health of hundreds of millions of citizens of the european union. the sad experience of the past in the form of animal diseases caused by inadequate feed has caused enormous material and social costs in the community countries. therefore, the determination of the composition of the feed is of the utmost importance in order to limit the use of poor feed. it is also important to ensure that the provisions of the regulation are effectively enforced so that they are not mere empty declarations. today, millions of people, and even entire countries in europe, who oppose the use of genetically modified food have a right to know. so not only farmers but also food processors should be informed on the labels of what is in the feed. and that's not what you do. a few months ago, we had a debate in this room about the increasing obesity in europe. the problem is that the ingredients in the feed are very important, since they are the ones that determine the quality of the meat. it is very good that the draft regulation pays great attention to the hygiene of feed production and the problem of the addition of contaminated materials during their production. this practice has sometimes been used in many companies.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the compromise reached on animal feed has some advantages: it harmonises and simplifies eu legislation, but it also has major shortcomings: it does not sufficiently guarantee the safety of feed and food, it does not protect the interests of 5 million farmers who raise livestock and does not sufficiently protect our health. access to information on feed composition by feed users will continue to be restricted due to the protection of intellectual property rights. if the feed manufacturer uses a dangerous ingredient, we're still vulnerable. the problem of fodder is further evidence of the wrong direction of agricultural policy, which, contrary to declarations, primarily supports industrialized agriculture, where the farmer does not have to have his own fodder and can raise animals on the basis of the feed of specialized enterprises. after all, these companies are driven by profit and will always find ways to cut costs, not necessarily with regard to the safety of the animals and our health. as a result, we have to multiply detailed regulations and increase controls, making them absurd. is it not time to reverse these trends and return to sustainable agriculture, where the farmer has his own feed without being exposed to losses caused by dioxins or bse? progress in agriculture does not necessarily mean concentration of production, including concentration of feed production. let us remember that there are currently 15 million farms in the union, 95% of which are small and medium-sized farms. most of these farms can implement a sustainable farming model for the benefit of farmers, the environment and all of us. the only thing that is needed is a radical change in the approach to agriculture and thus to the common agricultural policy currently in place.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to congratulate mr graefe zu baringdorf on his excellent report. the aim of simplifying the legislation currently in force on the placing on the market and use of feed and on the mandatory and additional information to be provided on packaging and transport documents is a good one. the simplification of technical rules and the increase in the scope of strict administrative rules will certainly have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the community feed sector and food safety, as mr parish has said. i'm convinced that that assumption is correct. however, i would like to draw attention to a point that may be problematic. i believe that the obligation to include a freephone number on the labelling for small and medium-sized manufacturers of compound feed for pets is unnecessary. the implementation of this provision may place an excessive financial burden on those small and medium-sized producers which are the most numerous in terms of feed producers. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we must strive to simplify the whole system of legislation on the placing on the market and use of feed. you have to be careful about safety. however, the introduction of controversial and overly costly rules can have a negative impact on those small companies that produce for local markets.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the quality of foodstuffs of animal origin (meat, eggs, milk) and the protection of consumers against their poor quality have been a matter of concern for the european union for many years. good quality animal products require good quality feed - this is the most important factor - but also good rearing conditions. most feed ingredients are produced by agriculture itself, but feed additives are most often chemical products. they're the most controversial. that is why we should fight for the accurate labelling of industrial feeds. it has nothing to do with intellectual property law and protection. if there is a patent office that can issue a certificate of protection, then the product will be protected. new additives in feed, if not sufficiently researched, can be harmful to our health, even though they will provide better growth or appearance. the farmer has no possibility to examine the feed and can only rely on the information provided by the producer. let us remember bse and the effects of adding meat and bone meal to animal feed. the industry will do anything for profit. that is why i fully support mr graefe zu baringdorf's report.
mr. chairman, please! i hope that the proposals contained in the compromise package we are debating today will help to simplify the rules on the marketing of feed and thus contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the feed sector in the european union. i also hope that the new rules will not increase the costs for small and medium-sized producers of compound feedingstuffs. when discussing labelling, it should be remembered that often the problem is not the lack of information on the label of a product, but the lack of understanding by the average consumer. too much information on the label can actually make it difficult for the buyer to make a choice. on the one hand, we must ensure that our citizens have access to information, and on the other hand, we must protect the intellectual property rights of producers. i support the idea of creating a list of ingredients that cannot be used in animal feed. one thing is certain: we cannot allow food scandals to happen again. dioxin-contaminated pork from ireland and melanin in milk from china are examples of incidents that should not have happened. we can ask the question: why did the control system not work properly and contamination occur? the control system therefore requires more supervision. procedures shall be transparent and unambiguous. the penalties for non-compliance or violation of the control system should be high, because they are related to human health. despite this incident in ireland, i would like to make sure that farmers and producers in europe are held to the highest standards in the world. our food is of recognized reputation and quality. food is safe in europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate mr dumitriu on his excellent report, which is a follow-up to the reports we have already drawn up, in which we have discussed the promotion of the european union in third countries and the amounts of money allocated to it. information and promotion activities on agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries play a huge role in creating a positive image of the 'made in europe' brand. i have been stressing this for a long time and for the last few years i have been actively working to simplify the whole promotional and information system. i have repeatedly stressed in my speeches the need to promote the 'made in europe' brand on the markets of third countries. this is particularly true in today's formal and legal environment. in accordance with the declaration of the 6th wto ministerial conference in hong kong, the use of all forms of export subsidies, including export refunds, will be phased out in 2013. due to the level of complexity in organising promotional campaigns on third country markets and the higher amounts of long-distance activities, especially in asia and america, the mechanism to support promotional activities has not been of much interest to trade organisations. the european commission's proposal is a way of stimulating their activity. the promotion programmes implemented by the member state provide an opportunity to involve actors who have not been able to manage and finance these activities themselves. nevertheless, efforts should continue to be made to increase the community's percentage share in the financing of such projects. i will take the united states of america as an example, where they spend several times more on promotional activities than the sum of all the money spent on both wine and other promotional activities in the european union. in the light of the liberalisation of trade flows of agricultural goods, the instrument to promote community production on third country markets may be the only available instrument that is in line with the identified framework of the wto agreement on agriculture in the wto dda round. promoting the 'made in europe' brand is an opportunity to maintain competitiveness and, in the long term, even to increase the attractiveness of european agri-food products and to expand their market. i would like to thank the commission for the measures we have repeatedly spoken about in the european parliament and which have been taken into account, in particular the reduction of the amounts for inter-branch organisations from 20% to 10% and the increase in the budget for promotion measures.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union is a major exporter of many agricultural products, but the future of eu agriculture will be determined by consumption on the internal market. its stimulation could benefit farmers, consumers and entire economies. in many member states, the consumption of food products essential for good health is low and its increase, through good information and promotion, is most appropriate. however, it is important that the programmes in question benefit eu farmers, especially small and medium-sized farms, which account for as much as 95% of all farms. these programmes should enhance consumers' knowledge of healthy nutrition while leaving them with a choice. the following measures are therefore worth taking: consultation with nutrition specialists, training of salespeople who should also be food advisers to consumers. information on the health benefits of the products promoted and the production methods used for their manufacture must be well presented. the information on the labels is insufficient. the threat to this program may be the promotion of mass-produced foods by large food companies, which can write spectacular programs with the best professionals at their disposal. but wouldn't that compromise the promotion of high-quality food? the readability of the expiry dates on products and the increase of consumer awareness of the importance of all information on product labels are also very important.
mr. chairman, please! european and third-country consumers receive too little information on the quality and standards of european food. the demands we place on european producers are extremely high. the consumer should be aware of this, as it will influence his decisions about the choice of appropriate goods. i'm all for promotion and information, although i tend to talk about information as a more objective form of communication. we also need to set certain requirements and standards for the quality of information and the way we promote it. finally, i support the union's support for food information and promotion programmes, as well as national budgets. in times of crisis, it is important to promote and inform, which will counteract the decline in demand, consumption, including food consumption.
mr. chairman, please! i supported the report on the placing on the market and use of feedingstuffs because it represents the interests of both farmers and producers and the health safety of farmed animals and thus the health safety of the subsequent meat consumers humans. a clear definition of the composition of feed and a feed register will help farmers to make responsible decisions on the choice of the right feed. it's a step in the right direction. however, i would point out that the protection of the producers' trade secrets cannot justify the lack of the necessary information, nor can it lead to situations such as the outbreak of mad cow disease or the appearance of dioxins in feedingstuffs.
in writing. - i am very pleased that the european parliament has adopted the report by ms muscardini, on which i had the opportunity to work as an opinion-giving mep in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. there is a lot of talk about improving conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the internal market of the european union, especially in the context of the proposed small business act. smes account for more than 99% of all european enterprises. however, the business of transnational activities is now more the domain of large companies. only 8% of smes export beyond their national borders. as for taking up activities outside the european union, only 3% of companies decide to do so. we should not forget that multinational enterprises have a high capacity for innovation. and innovation is the key to european competitiveness and growth. i therefore hope that internal market policies will offer smes the full benefits of the common market and, where possible, lay the foundations for the internationalisation of their activities. smes should also receive more support from the member states and the european commission, for example in export promotion or in finding potential trading partners, especially in relation to market-leading products and services and new technologies.
in writing. the report presented by ms cristiana muscardini deals with an important economic and social issue. this is especially important now, in the face of economic collapse. the number of smes (up to 250 employees; turnover ≤ eur 50 million) in the union is 23 million, representing around 99% of all companies operating on our market. more than 75 million people work in them. it is therefore appropriate to call on the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities to provide effective support to these entities, including through unhindered access to credit. trade facilitation and the removal of bureaucratic barriers to exports or imports are also needed. for public procurement, where complex and not always clear procedures hinder access by smes, the market should be made more open, both within the eu and in third countries. as i have shown in my report on innovation policy, the role of smes in this sector is difficult to overestimate. they are increasingly flexible and open to new technological and organisational solutions. special attention should be paid to smes in the agri-food sector, where the protection of product designations of origin and the fight against counterfeiting harmful to consumers' health are important. i also support the idea of organising a european sme week in may 2009. this should be a good opportunity to spread information about this throughout the union.
in writing. − the internet has created new opportunities for trade in goods and services. this also applies to cross-border transactions. the increase in the number of transactions made over the internet in recent years gives rise to optimism about the level of consumer trust in the internet. however, there are still barriers, such as language, that will be difficult to overcome. lack of legal certainty and consumer protection is also a serious threat to international trade online. i hope that the proposal for a directive on consumer rights will eliminate some of these and provide an additional impetus for the development of online commerce. it is worth noting that the internet offers smes the opportunity to participate in international markets at very low costs compared to traditional methods, offering them opportunities to develop their business that were not available before. but online commerce also raises questions, especially when it comes to the sale of counterfeit goods protected by intellectual property rights. counterfeiting is a serious problem for online commerce. in particular, the prosecution of persons selling counterfeit goods in international trade is difficult. internet users are also frequently victims of fraud, such as the theft of money by electronic means. all these developments undermine users' trust in online commerce, slowing down the development of international trade on the internet.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for dealing with such a difficult and controversial subject. labelling of feed and coordination of this issue at community level require reconciling the interests of consumers who have the right to know what product they are buying, whether it is safe and what it is made of, and of producers who defend their rights to protect their intellectual property. the very fact that companies and member states are challenging the requirement to provide 'detailed information on request' on the feed label shows a fundamental conflict of interest between the groups concerned. the compromise procedure, developed with the support of the european court of justice, seems reasonable at first sight, but it is detached from reality. it is hard to imagine a farmer who works virtually around the clock and wastes time and money on complicated appeals. detailed information on the composition of feed should be available on the label, not only because of the inalienable right of the consumer, but above all because of the fundamental objective of the directive, which is to protect health. if not the producer, who then guarantees that the feed is not genetically modified, for example? the protection of intellectual property cannot be used to encourage abuse.
in writing. - in the vote on the report on trade and economic relations with china, i voted in favour of its implementation. china is the eu's second largest trading partner and since 2006 the eu has been china's largest trading partner. it is a country that is one of the engines of global growth. it is very important that trade relations between european countries and china are primarily based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, respect for environmental boundaries and fair competition. the development of trade relations should be accompanied by a political dialogue on human rights. china should step up its efforts to enforce intellectual property rights and address the issue of counterfeit and pirated products being produced in china. the high level of pollution produced by chinese industry and the associated increased consumption of natural resources is also a cause for concern. the chinese are being overshadowed by the breakdown of negotiations with the dalai lama's envoys. china should stop all forms of persecution of the tibetan people. in order to ensure an appropriate level of trade relations with china, they must be based on commitment and strategic partnership, respecting the principles of reciprocity, fair competition and trade, in accordance with the values shared by all and the wto rules.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? sri lanka has been in a civil war for 25 years. over 70,000 people died in it. today, between the sri lankan government army and the tamil tigers, in an area of about 300 square kilometers, about 250,000 civilians are suffering the terrible cost of this war. hundreds of defenseless people have been killed in the area since mid-january. the hospital was shelled and about 500 people were in the hospital at the time of the attack. according to the international red cross, the shells hit the pediatric ward. terrified people are afraid to flee despite the government's announcement of a 48-hour ceasefire. they fear death or injury. both sides of the conflict point to human rights violations by the other side, and both sides are violating those rights. the government is predicting an imminent victory over the tamils. the people trapped between the two armies may not be looking forward to the end of the fighting. we call on both sides of the conflict to minimize civilian casualties and begin peace negotiations.
madam president! the scenario of the tragic events in sri lanka is similar to other such cases. when we talk about the tragedy of the poor, we forget that it is also caused by people, not the poor, who come from the same environment. they use religious, tribal, ethnic, historical, and other differences to divide the population of a nation in order to gain power. this leads to the destruction of the mostly very weakly rooted elements of democracy, to civil war with all kinds of atrocities, disregard for human rights, information, total destruction of the opponent. i support the resolution as an expression of disapproval of those who are fuelling civil wars and who are giving them material and political support. a warning to the authors of these inhuman scenarios might be the knowledge that they will be captured by, for example, international special forces and sentenced to life in solitary confinement.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we're talking about sri lanka, burma and thailand. in other sessions, we talked about other countries. but always about the endless civil wars, the murders, the violation of basic human rights. we will never stop these terrible crimes unless we recognize the political forces and the nefarious outside interests behind these wars. these wars could not go on indefinitely in poor countries that could not even afford to have them if they were not backed by outside interests. so we have to do two things to stop this process. first, to identify what these interests are, what these political forces are, and to tell them to stop using political methods. secondly, to create an expeditionary force, police and military, to counter where political means fail. the european union can afford it.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the issue of human rights violations in burma has been discussed several times during the current term of office of the european parliament. known for its magnificent, gold-flooded buddhist temples, myanmar is also a prison for thousands of burmese living in one of the world's largest political regimes, from which they are trying to escape to the us, australia, canada, european countries and neighbouring countries. after resolutions calling for the release of thousands of political prisoners, including many opposition leaders, led by a nobel prize winner, and protests by international organizations against the recruitment of children into the military, forced labor, and the lack of care in burma, we are discussing the issue of human rights violations today. while fleeing the burmese hell, a thousand people from the muslim minority were captured in boats in taiwanese territorial waters, dragged into international waters without navigation equipment or food supplies, and imprisoned. the ethnic muslim minority is also persecuted by the military regime in burma. this has been accompanied by denial of civil rights, imprisonment, restrictions on education, marriage, movement, and the destruction of mosques, churches, and other places of worship. while the thai authorities' permission for the refugees to stay in the country temporarily, along with the thai prime minister's statement that he will investigate, is to be appreciated, the recent events are a clear example of human rights violations by the thai people. we are of course in favour of resolutions, but they do not change the human tragedy in this region, where the conflict is not only based on inhuman military regimes and religious conflicts, but also on the interests of various forces. so there is a need to counter more effectively both the military junta and the separatist zeal of groups that persecute people of other faiths.
madam president! in recent years, thousands of burmese have fled the country for fear of repression by the ruling military regime and widespread famine, seeking refuge in thailand or neighboring southeast asian countries. this problem is particularly acute for the rohingya ethnic minority in the western part of the country, who are systematically denied citizenship, restricted in their freedom of speech and movement, and other basic human rights. the burmese refugee problem is a regional problem and neighbouring countries such as india, bangladesh and indonesia need to work more closely together to address it and provide adequate care and shelter for the burmese. international agencies report cases of inhuman treatment of burmese refugees and their brutal expulsion, which amounts to a death sentence. the thai coastal navy's pushing boats with 1,000 refugees on board, deprived of food, into the sea was an inhuman act that led to the deaths of many of them. furthermore, the actions of the burmese military regime and its acts of violence against the rohingya minority must be strongly condemned and full restoration of their civil rights called for.
madam president! we have spoken many times in this room about the situation in burma. so it is perhaps no surprise that the endangered burmese population is making drastic attempts to escape through the andaman sea. those who reach the coast of thailand are often treated in an inhuman way. handcuffed, in boats without engines, they are sent back to sea. 46 rohingya minority members were taken into custody by the internal security command after arriving at phrathong island. they have no legal counsel, no access to refugee lawyers. urgent humanitarian assistance is needed for burmese refugees in need of asylum.
madam president! after world war ii ended in europe, many nazi criminals fled to south america to escape justice. attempts to bring them back and bring them to justice have proved to be extremely difficult. and that led to desperate steps like the israeli intelligence services who simply abducted eichmann from south america to bring him to justice. it is clear that the tradition of fleeing to south america in the belief that there is a place of refuge and that one can live out one's days with impunity despite the crimes committed is not going away. actions like the brazilian government's are fueling this belief and making the feeling of impunity, unfortunately, very widespread. it is therefore of the utmost importance that this extradition request be granted.
in writing. for the eu-middle east agreement, the priority today should be to try to restore stability and help implement the peace programme in the gaza strip. the european union should do everything it can to help bring an end to this conflict, which is killing innocent people. in addition, efforts should focus on helping the population, guaranteeing basic livelihoods. the daily food needs of the people of the gaza strip are only met by 60%, making them even more vulnerable to disease and harsh conditions. lack of drinking water is as dangerous to health as lack of food. needless to say, the lack of medical care and the destruction of schools and government buildings are making it very difficult to restore order and return to normalcy. we must remember that it is only by solving many of the basic problems of our daily lives that we can focus on the economic development of the middle east and close trade cooperation with that region. the european union has the chance to help the arab world, all the countries of the middle east, to become a prosperous region, which in turn will create a framework for closer cooperation between the middle east and the union.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, thank you. i think that the union's foreign policy deserves some attention. mr president, we have a special debate today on three major reports on foreign policy, on security and defence, and on eu-nato relations. our annual report on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) has become a main vehicle through which parliament expresses its strategic view on eu foreign policy. in this year's report we have decided to focus on policy-making and policy-shaping. we have focused on the need to establish a genuine dialogue with the council on the main objectives of the eu's common foreign and security policy. we have recognised that it is in progress, namely that for the first time the council's report systematically refers to the resolutions adopted by the european parliament. we are grateful: this is a real achievement. however, we have also expressed our regret that the council does not engage in a full dialogue with the views advanced by parliament, nor does it refer to those resolutions in operational documents as joint actions or common positions. we expect that the council's annual report will provide opportunities to establish a dialogue with parliament aimed at developing a more strategic approach to the common foreign and security policy. we have reiterated the most important principles in our report which should underline our foreign policy. in our view, the cfsp must be underpinned and guided by the values which the european union and its member states cherish, notably democracy, the rule of law, respect for the dignity of the human person, for human rights and for fundamental freedoms, and the promotion of peace and effective multilateralism. we believe that the european union can make an impact, but only if it speaks with one voice and if it is equipped with appropriate instruments like those stemming from the lisbon treaty and a more generous budget. we can undertake effective action only when it is legitimised by both the european and national parliaments acting at their respective levels and in accordance with their own mandates. in order to be credible and to respond to the expectations of eu citizens - and i say this on the eve of new parliamentary elections coming soon - the cfsp must be allocated resources commensurate with the objectives and specific targets. we therefore regret that as in previous years the cfsp budget is seriously under-funded. we address horizontal and geographical issues in our report. on horizontal issues let me just enumerate the most important ones we touched on: first, upholding human rights and promoting peace and security in europe's neighbourhood and at global level; second, support for effective multilateralism and respect for international law; third, the fight against terrorism; fourth, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and disarmament; fifth, climate change, energy security and issues like cyber security. in this report we are intentionally selective. we are therefore concentrating on some strategic and geographical priority areas such as the western balkans, the middle east and the wider middle east, the south caucasus, africa and asia and obviously relations with our strategic partner, the usa, as well as relations with russia. this report should be seen in conjunction with and complementary to parliament's more detailed reports. it shouldn't be trying to duplicate them. i want to thank my colleagues in the house from the different political groups for their understanding and excellent cooperation. we have tried to take most of the concerns on board, and i hope that the report will be endorsed by a handsome majority of our house. finally, to our partners from the council and the commission, i would like to say that we hope that this occasion can help us to develop a deeper strategic dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission, which will bring more democratic legitimacy to the hard work you are doing, mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner, in order to have more cooperation in our triangle. i hope that you will treat this as a possibility for developing more synergy, a possibility for strengthening our common voice the voice of all three actors and give more democratic and parliamentary legitimacy to our common goal which is: foreign policy; one voice; european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the liberal end of history predicted in the 1990s has turned out to be a pipe dream. we have every right to feel more and more alone. there is therefore no alternative to cooperation between the european union and nato. there is no alternative to greater engagement by europe and the united states in international security matters. otherwise, the rules of the international order will be de facto set by korea, iran or hamas terrorists. energy, raw materials, piracy, cyber security are all things that need to be addressed. we've seen in poland recently how difficult it is to coordinate the rescue of hostages. the common nature of decisions does not, however, prejudge their quality. that is why i would not overestimate the role of the treaty of lisbon. the limitations of our efficiency lie in the european capitals. it is there that the political will to pursue a common world policy is to be sought, not in procedures.
mr. chairman, please! when there are too many presidents, there are really no presidents at all. we need to be very clear and precise about what is the most urgent and important thing when it comes to security issues. what happened last year in the caucasus, the european union's nearest neighbour, shows that we must certainly put the emphasis on eastern policy as an investment in our european security, the eu. i think that the eastern partnership is absolutely fundamental and while i am glad that it exists, i am also concerned that the budget allocated to it has been cut almost three times. i think this is an absolutely fundamental issue and i believe that it will be a kind of flag of the european union not only for the closest neighbours but also for countries located far away from belarus, ukraine or georgia.
mr president, the citizens of europe need a strong union with a competitive foreign, security and defence policy. this will not happen if our union keeps idle in one place. china and india are growing not only in economic power but also in military might. europe’s competitive advantage should be based on knowledge and innovation. this should be nurtured and supported by all of us. in an effective security strategy, our european forces should have access to equipment and resources of the highest quality. while the united states spends trillions of dollars on security, we in europe are slow or idle in developing our own strategy. in a time of crisis, we are closing firearms factories, like the factory in radom, poland. we should instead be investing in advanced technologies, such as the recoilless technologies being developed in poland as we speak. innovation creates new business and jobs. we cannot build european capabilities by shutting down our own factories.
mr. chairman, please! as tony blair once said, the european union - while it should not be a superstate - should be a superpower. we can add that it is not only an economic superpower, as it already is, but an important player on the world stage, because that is what the interests, including the economic interests, of all the member states require. henry kissinger once asked for a phone number to call to find out what the european union's position was on important international policy issues. today, it is the telephone number of the high representative. the problem is, when the phone rings, mr. javier solana should know what to say. it is therefore necessary to develop a common foreign policy, including a security policy, including energy policy, and therefore a common policy towards russia. let us return to the constantly repeated postulate that all the countries of the european union must speak with one voice in the dialogue with russia. to achieve this, a well-defined and common policy towards russia based on solidarity should be developed as soon as possible, which will provide a clear framework not only for eu-russia talks but also for bilateral talks between individual member states. the european parliament should play a very important role in the formulation of such a policy, given its democratically elected mandate.
madam president! the european union must act in the interests of the security of the citizens of all member states. it should first of all take up some of the responsibility for combating terrorism and react strongly to its manifestations. recently, the murder of a polish engineer by the pakistani taliban has received widespread attention. the so-called european diplomacy did not participate in the previous negotiations for his release. this disturbing case, which is part of a wider security problem, should be the subject of a separate debate in the european parliament and lead to concrete action, which i call for. the priority right now is to get the body of the polish man killed and help his family. the necessary emergency measures cannot, however, replace a comprehensive approach to terrorism and increased diplomatic pressure on countries such as pakistan.
madam president! nato, as an international security organization, has proven itself in a time of relative peace in europe. of course, the sense of security it gives us is largely limited by the pace of decision-making by the investigative bodies or the decisions of the covenant. after all, nato is the stabilizer of world security. attempts to 'soften' the north atlantic alliance by weakening its position by expanding the eu's military structures are a mistake. the european union today has a problem with agreeing on tough political decisions, let alone military ones. the union should focus on strengthening its internal security and enhancing the defence capabilities of its members, in particular against states bordering countries with a high level of instability, states with extreme nationalist ideologies or states in the interest of terrorist groups. the union should not become too involved in efforts to build up large expeditionary forces for operations outside europe.
madam president! the european parliament agrees with the common foreign and security policy of the european union. there is a consensus among the main political forces on this. the problem, the real political problem, is how to achieve this fundamental goal. firstly, the ratification of the treaty of lisbon as soon as possible. these political leaders, who are delaying the ratification process of the treaty, are undermining the shaping of the european union's common foreign and security policy. it is difficult to talk seriously about a common security policy for the european union without the lisbon treaty. secondly, i would like to emphasise the issue of human rights in the formulation of the union's external policy. this policy should support international law: international humanitarian law, liberal democracy and the rule of law. thirdly, this policy requires a serious development of the european defence policy, the development of the european union's military structures and the european defence industry.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me just make a few remarks, and one in particular: i think this debate has shown that there is a growing acceptance of the approach europe follows in crisis management and conflict prevention. the munich conference on security confirmed the comprehensive approach, because security and development go together – you cannot have one without the other. i believe this european approach is a core element of our strategy to promote peace and security in our neighbourhood, but also beyond. it works, but it must be adequately resourced, so we have to work on building our capacities and capabilities in both the civilian and military fields, and we will try at least to play our part as much as we can. but i would also like answer your questions, in particular that of mr saryusz-wolski, chair of the committee on foreign affairs, on the underfunding of the cfsp budget. it is true that the budget has been reduced this year, but this should, we hope, not be an impediment to our political ambitions in civilian esdp, provided that there are no new significant missions this year. it is important to remember that only certain costs are covered by the cfsp budget – equipment costs, contracted staff, special allowances, for instance the eu special representatives – but member states also pay for the cost of their seconded staff. the budget will increase – as you know, not this year but in 2013 – to eur 400 million. concerning transfers between budget articles, which mr dombrovskis mentioned, the commission includes information on transfers within the cfsp budget with its quarterly reports to the budgetary authority, and in recent years all appropriations under the cfsp budget have been committed. let me comment on two specific issues: firstly, on human security. human security is something which i am personally very fond of, because it must be promoted: freedom from want and freedom from fear as a good of foreign and security policy. this is also recognised in our 2008 report on european security strategy (ess), that we both mentioned before. furthermore, the ess report recognises that without development and poverty eradication there will be no sustainable peace. therefore, this is very important, and the promotion of human rights is also a part of this equation. finally, let me say a word on early warning and conflict prevention, which mr pīks spoke about. i agree in general that as a european union we must work more on the early parts of the conflict cycle, which means early warning, conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy. from the commission side, one initiative we are taking in this field is to strengthen links with ngos as part of a peace-building partnership, and also improving our uses of open sources of information. but we will try to reinforce the early prevention side in the future. we know this is a very important part.
high representative for cfsp. − madam president, i shall be very brief. i would like to thank those members of parliament who have intervened, and i have taken note of their remarks and their questions. i will certainly be in touch with you to respond to those who have to be responded to properly. i would like to say that this is the second time that we have had a debate of this nature in the european parliament, an almost three-hour discussion on european security. i think this is very important, and i hope very much that this idea will be maintained in the future. to the three rapporteurs, thank you very much for your work, and you can be sure that we will continue cooperating with you in the future.
rapporteur. − madam president, this is a very broad, and for me satisfactory, debate about successes, gaps and actions in progress. roughly speaking, i would say that it is the syndrome of the half-empty/half-full glass, depending on who is looking at it. some questions were answered at least by the mainstream of those who spoke. is there progress in this area? yes. is it enough? no. is there more convergence between institutions like parliament, council, commission and member states? yes, there is more progress, although this broadband of foreign policy of the union is not sufficiently big enough, and here i refer to your words, commissioner ferrero-waldner, on money. if we had more money, or at least as much as the commission proposed for broadband in rural areas – eur 1.5 billion – perhaps member states, without having to pay, would more willingly participate in cfsp actions. you know well that this house is appealing for the union budget to pay for that. do the citizens value this foreign policy? the answer is, again, ‘yes’. do we make sufficient use of foreign policy to legitimise the union? the answer is ‘no’. capabilities: in the broader sense of the term, everything that is crisis prevention management and rapid response, we have what we could get and – i could expect that mr solana will nod – more. i have already touched upon finance. in terms of legal and institutional instruments – lisbon – everyone agrees that we need more and better equipped instruments under the treaty rules. this convergence is being worked out in a discreet manner, and i would like to pay tribute to the discreet action and diplomacy of the high representative, not only outside, but also within. how does this like-mindedness come about? when you are able, mr solana, to speak on behalf of the whole union, there has to be, beforehand, action to persuade everybody and to get everybody on board. the question of values was raised. do we agree on values? yes, we do, but we have different practices and this axis of values vis-à-vis interest is also present, and the best example is how to deliver it in central asia: it was present in the debate on the central asia strategy. to close, i would say that i was touched by what mr solana said – that, through foreign policy, the eu identifies itself. it gets more identity. what we are adding in our approach in parliament is that it gives more legitimacy, which means it gives more power. for that reason it can be an integral part of european integration. the dominant debate has shown that there is hunger for more europe in foreign policy and that more pooling of european political and material capital is needed.
in writing. international security is one of the greatest values for all actors in international relations. today, we are witnessing a redefinition of this concept and a shift in focus to non-military factors that threaten international stability and security. examples of such threats include organised crime, cyber terrorism, piracy (which we are witnessing off the coast of somalia), climate change and the threats posed by the global economic crisis. the european union, while devoting its attention to the building of common military instruments such as the eurocorps, the european air transport fleet and the eu's permanent headquarters, cannot forget other, no less important threats. more attention should be paid to building bodies and institutions that would enable us to overcome the financial difficulties caused by the global economic crisis and to protect the environment and biodiversity. the internal risks, such as drugs, social deprivation and cybercrime, must also be considered. all these elements are important factors in international security, in the security of the european union and in the security of every nation. without addressing these fundamental issues, it is impossible to create a stable european security strategy.
the list of speakers was thus exhausted. i'd like to inform you that there are four people in the audience who have volunteered to speak.
we have received the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which will be presented by ms figueiredo, member of parliament, as a catch the eye.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 february 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the close partnership between the european union and the mediterranean countries should be based above all on respect for human rights and the rule of law. the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean, adopted in paris on 13 july 2008, is a contribution to peace and prosperity and can be an important step forward towards economic and territorial integration, as well as cooperation on environmental and climate protection. it is regrettable that since the barcelona process began, no concrete progress has been made in some partner countries towards accepting and respecting certain common values and principles explicitly enshrined in the 1995 barcelona declaration to which they are signatories (in particular in the areas of democracy, human rights and the rule of law). in the mediterranean countries, poverty and social exclusion, especially affecting women and children, are also a concern. it is essential that member states and partners involved in the barcelona process promote the integration of the gender dimension in all policies and concrete measures promoting equality between women and men. all countries participating in the 'barcelona process - union for the mediterranean' should ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) and all other un and ilo human rights instruments as soon as possible.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr. chairman, please! in the midst of an expanding crisis, i would like to congratulate the european commission on the destruction of polish shipyards. the selfish attitude of the european elites, their joy at the loss of over 100 000 jobs in the shipyards and their partner companies, will probably result in a large number of these workers entering the labour market in western europe in the near future. after all, this decision only deepened the european crisis. i am curious to see how the european elites will behave, whether they will show solidarity with the member states where the crisis is taking on a huge scale, or whether they will look after their own interests. it is in times of crisis that european society will see whether the declarations and principles that have been the basis of the european union are true or whether it is only a game of one country against another within an institution with lofty foundations. in this context, i am surprised at the commission's lack of reaction to the current actions of many members of the union in breach of the rules in force, for which poland has been punished.
mr. chairman, please! poland elects its members of the european parliament, but their ability to act in the country is limited. their legal position is very weak. polish legislation does not provide members of the european parliament with any legal instruments ensuring the effective exercise of their mandate. this concerns issues as important as exercising effective influence over the organs of governmental administration and local self-government. members of the polish parliament have a number of powers: the possibility to obtain information from state entities, to intervene in governmental and local government bodies, a statutory deadline of fourteen days for a reply to a question on parliamentary intervention. europeans are rarely considered important in poland, except by the media, which is looking for cheap sensationalism. on the website i informed voters that there was no possibility of legislative forms of action by meps. the legislative inconsistency of successive legislative teams in poland is well known in this case. i think that the european parliament should demand greater opportunities for its representatives to act on the national level.
mr. chairman, please! the czech president vaclav klaus will visit the european parliament tomorrow. we hope that the president of the european union presidency will be received with dignity and respect. the correct views expressed by president klaus on the lisbon treaty are being covered up by a rumour that germany may be the main obstacle to the implementation of the treaty. the decision of the constitutional court in karlsruhe will be decisive. half of its members, according to media reports, have serious doubts that it violates the country's constitution. this shows that such an important decision should not be rushed, as not only the czech president who is visiting us sees.
(microphone initially off) of the most tragic periods in human history. tens of millions died in the holocaust. many of these victims were killed in the more than 12,000 german death camps, concentration camps, and concentration camps that operated throughout the third reich and in the conquered countries. today, attempts are made to distort the truth about those tragic years, and information is circulated as if the camps were polish or latvian rather than german. the german press is the leader. the last time die welt reported that majdanek was a polish concentration camp. i therefore prepared a draft resolution which seeks to standardise the designation of concentration camps by adding the words 'german' or 'nazi concentration camp' to their names. my initiative was adopted by the uen political group, but unfortunately i have been informed that it is blocked at the conference of presidents. ladies and gentlemen of the house! the european union can only survive and develop if it is guided by historical truth and respect for human rights. i therefore ask the members to support the uen initiative so that history is never again distorted and victims are not made into torturers, but torturers into victims.
mr. chairman, please! at today's meeting, the uen group unanimously adopted a draft resolution calling for may 25 to be designated as the day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism. the text will shortly be sent to the representatives of the highest authorities of the union, including mr pöttering. the choice of may 25 is not accidental - it is the day in 1948 when the soviet authorities murdered the polish soldier, witold pilecki, who had voluntarily gone to the auschwitz death camp to build a resistance movement there. after escaping, he fought the nazis until the end of the war, and after the soviet troops entered poland, he began an underground fight with the next occupier. pilecki was just one of many europeans who lost their lives fighting brutal totalitarian regimes. many remain unknown, but the courage and sacrifice of all of them deserves to be remembered. i therefore ask you, mr president, to support the initiative of our group.
mr. chairman, please! it is with great sadness and emotion that i wish to say that in recent days a polish engineer, a fellow citizen of ours, has been killed in pakistan, but he is another citizen of a member state of the european union who is being killed in that very region. it's another death that shows that there is a world of anti-values, a world of people who don't recognize what in other civilizations is sacred - human life. i think that this dramatic event, another one, should be another important signal and stimulus for us to unite in the fight against the world of anti-values, also in the political fight and in the context - we must also say it frankly - of a common anti-terrorist front. i think that those politicians in the european union who think that we can fight terrorism without violence are wrong.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would very much like to speak to the council representative as well, but the council has not decided to send anyone to this debate. i think it's a shame that it's a bad habit. and i think the chairman should respond to this situation. so, to get back to the neighborhood, we have to admit, we have to realize that our environment is changing very dynamically. that's why we need a change in neighborhood policy. the mediterranean union is our response to the needs of the south, and the black sea synergy responds to the challenges that have arisen with the recent enlargement of the european union. the eastern partnership is the current response to the expectations of our european neighbours to the east. to achieve the objectives we set for the 2000s, the citizens of the neighbouring countries must feel a real political and economic rapprochement with the union. this is why the importance of the deep free trade area, the rapid reduction of visa fees and the requirement of visa-free travel for a large part of these countries in the longer term, if possible in the near term, is so important. our common objective, our common interest, should be to integrate energy into the main objectives of the neighbourhood policy, including the commitment of our money to the modernisation of independent transmission networks, particularly in the east and south. only in this way will we achieve political rapprochement with ukraine, georgia, moldova, armenia and finally azerbaijan, and in the future - also in the right proportions - with the five central asian republics. when we talk about the eastern neighbourhood, we inevitably touch on the problem of russia and our partnership with that country. today, as we negotiate a new agreement, we can only say one thing: russia is a threat to the security of our shared neighborhood. it's very difficult to see russia as a partner in this. we are touching here on a fundamental political problem, namely the problem of enlargement of the union to the east. the neighbourhood process is clearly not a substitute for accession, but it cannot be separated from the perspective of membership for european countries. without this perspective, our efforts will be significantly weakened. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the foreign affairs coordinators in the political groups, the co-rapporteurs and the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs, who have helped to produce a report which already today enjoys wide support, as evidenced by the very small number of amendments tabled to this report in plenary, which will make it much easier for us to vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european neighbourhood policy was created to integrate the countries covered by this programme into the structures of the european union. it involves strong economic, cultural and political cooperation, without favouring one country over another. in this context, it is difficult to understand the differences in the distribution of funds between the mediterranean and eastern mediterranean countries, to the detriment of the latter. the very idea of separating the european neighbourhood policy (enp) from these regions is justified by the diversity of the problems they face. however, it cannot be a justification for diverging financial allocations. this seems particularly unjustified in view of the recent tragedy in one of the countries covered by the epc, namely georgia. its citizens are now looking to us for help and to feel that they are treated equally with other countries cooperating with the european union. another important objective to be achieved by the eps is energy security. the current crisis in europe is, however, a clear manifestation of the inconsistency of the assumptions of cooperation in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. he clearly pointed out the need to identify actions within the framework of the said policy, to strengthen the energy sector within the eastern partnership. i am glad that the european commission has recognised this problem and is pursuing this policy.
mr. chairman, please! in thanking our colleague szymański for his good report, i would like to share a reflection on why the neighbourhood policy is important to us. we have to answer that. first, because the european union and europe are not isolated islands. the union is located in europe and this is important to us, especially as we are ambitious, want to 'export' our values, our ideas and our experience to other countries. i think that apart from the big decisions - transport, energy, free trade, common exchange - there are also smaller and smaller things, such as education, scientific and cultural exchange, which are very important, and above all people-to-people contacts. i imagine the european union as a family of people communicating with each other. europe, or at least that is how i see it, will only be strong if each of its members has a role to play and can play it, and that means not only the countries of the union but also those that are its neighbours. i think, commissioner, that for today we have largely completed the construction of euromed, which is an interesting structure. we are giving a lot of money, maybe too much, as my colleague from uen said, and we need to strengthen the idea of euroeast now. this is very important, and i think after the recent energy events, no one doubts that this dimension is very, very important to us. i am referring to community programmes, regional programmes, which need to be supported, unfortunately, but financially. we need to put the right amount of money into it. let's make good decisions here, which countries and neighbors will implement in cooperation on joint projects.
mr. chairman, please! the financing of mediterranean and future eastern partnership initiatives through the european neighbourhood instrument should not, as is the case today, be to the detriment of either. it is important to take into account the specificities of both the eastern and the southern partner countries. recent geopolitical developments in our eastern neighbours have also clearly demonstrated the need to better adapt the eps to the needs of the region. ukraine is one example. the eu's largest eastern neighbour should be offered concrete incentives and benefits under the eastern partnership to mobilise this country with european ambitions. in addition, it would be important to accelerate the establishment of a free trade area and to conclude visa-free travel talks with ukraine. the european neighbourhood policy is not just the work of national governments and politicians. i am therefore very pleased that the report emphasises the need for greater involvement of civil society and local authorities in the planning and implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. let us also remember that exchanges of experience and best practice, training initiatives, including language learning programmes, from neighbouring countries are of great importance and value for good, effective and mutually beneficial neighbourhood cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, it is necessary to maintain the geographical distribution of financial assistance from the union budget between the mediterranean and eastern european countries in accordance with the provisions of the financial perspective for 2007-2013, as well as to continue the loan support to these countries from the european investment bank. however, the ceilings foreseen by the eib for 2007-13 - €8.7 billion for the mediterranean countries and only €3.7 billion for the eastern countries and russia - appear to be disproportionate to the needs of the eastern european countries. secondly, within the eastern partnership, it is necessary to develop energy cooperation with these countries and create conditions for europe to be supplied with energy resources from these countries as alternative sources of supply for europe. finally, thirdly, it is necessary to deepen the union's economic integration with the eastern partnership countries by extending the free trade area with those countries, as well as social integration, the final solution of which should be visa-free travel for the inhabitants of the enpi countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this discussion on the enpi has in fact already pre-empted the next commission communication on the eastern partnership. many of the ideas that you have put forward are in the eastern partnership communication and i am sure that when you get this you will, hopefully, be quite satisfied. let me just say a few things. i am, of course, very thankful for many of the suggestions. in this eastern partnership, the idea is that we want to work with our eastern partners – ukraine, moldova, belarus – if necessary on democracy and human rights, but also with the three caucasian countries, on trade, to try to make more profound association agreements, secondly on energy, and thirdly on more mobility. with regard to your suggestions on being visa-free, we will start with visa facilitation, although even that is not easy, as many member states here are still very reluctant. then of course there are all kinds of different platforms which i have already mentioned – for instance a platform for civil society, on energy and on transport – or indeed where best practices can be exchanged. with regard to financing, i can only tell you that, unfortunately, i do not have more funds available. of course – as i always say as a mother of the neighbourhood policy – i would love to have more. you are a very important budget authority so please give us a chance in the future and really support us on that. this goes for both the union for the mediterranean in the south and for the eastern partnership and the enpi in the east. the funding figures are currently eur 3.6 per capita per annum to the east and eur 3.4 per capita per annum to the south. so, as you can see, we are nearly at the same level. but at the same time it is never enough, because there are huge necessities and challenges. therefore we have also established the idea of a so-called nif – the neighbourhood investment facility – that can be used for bigger projects. this is all i can tell you at this stage but perhaps at a later stage, when we start to discuss the eastern partnership, we can go into all the details. in any case, thank you for this debate and for your suggestions. they are very much in line with the direction in which we are going.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i wanted to say a few words about this debate. simplifying procedures, monitoring the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, the control role of parliament, these are the issues we have been dealing with since 2005 and it seems that there is little more that can be done here. but certainly today it's important to fill the neighborhood with political content. the political content is visas, the common market, energy. if we don't meet those challenges, we may lose the opportunity to build our own neighborhoods on our own terms. time is not on our side. it may turn out that the countries that are our neighbors today will shift towards destabilization, towards other principles of building a regional order. we're not going to be satisfied with this, and we may never get this chance in history. it will also affect our own security, so we should think about it in these terms too - the quite selfish interests of the european union, that our neighbourhood is an area of stability and abundance. as regards the budget, i am well aware that there is agreement in many places in this house on the financing of certain parts of the neighbourhood, certain regions of the neighbourhood, but let us remember that the neighbourhood is only one budgetary envelope and nothing will change in the next financial perspective. if we can finance the mediterranean, the eastern mediterranean, the black sea neighbourhood well, we will all benefit. we cannot win one part of this neighbourhood against another, because that is the construction of the eu budget, and we should focus together on reforming the eu budget in this respect so that all these parts (the mediterranean, the black sea and the east) are won in the future financial perspective.
mr. chairman, please! i regret that this summary of the excellent report by mr szymański, member of parliament, could not be heard by mrs ferrero-waldner, who is busy with other matters.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the initiative that poland and sweden pushed last year is no longer under discussion. closer cooperation with our neighbours beyond our eastern borders is not only mutually beneficial, but also necessary and strategic for europe's security. the political and economic situation beyond our eastern border has a direct bearing on the situation throughout the eu, on our economic balance and security. last year was also a test of russia's credibility with its neighbors, which the kremlin simply failed to pass. the development of the epc therefore requires active engagement with the situation in the south caucasus region and with our closest neighbours. this commitment is a precondition for us to be able to cooperate in specific areas, i mean supporting civil society, democratic and institutional reforms, guaranteeing europe's energy security. let's show that we can be a major player in the east and not allow russia to implement its own neo-imperial scenario.
in writing. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument should not finance both the southern and eastern european neighbourhood policy initiatives to the detriment of either. the transparency of other sources, including private funding, is of particular importance in the use of these funds. in the negotiations on the new eu-russia agreement, we should focus on better cooperation from russia in identifying clear priorities for financial cooperation, leading to better planning and multiannual programming of assistance, ensuring that any financial assistance provided to the russian authorities contributes to raising democratic standards in russia and increasing co-ownership of projects identified for funding. i would also like to stress the need for effective political conditionality and guarantees that aid to belarus will have an immediate and direct impact on citizens and will not be used by the authorities against their political opponents. the european union should be more effective in supporting civil society and political parties defending democracy. recent geopolitical developments in the european union's eastern neighbours underline the importance of further developing the european neighbourhood policy by better tailoring it to the needs of partners, including enhancing the eu's engagement in the black sea region.
member of the commission. − mr president, first and foremost, i wish to express my gratitude to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and particularly to the rapporteur, ms riera madurell, for supporting our proposal for the community legal framework for a european research infrastructure. listening to you was music to my ears! let me also thank the itre shadow rapporteurs for their constructive support. together, we are coming an important step closer to a legal framework which will allow member states to collaborate for the construction of new large research infrastructures, which are becoming increasingly complex and expensive and can only be built if several european countries work together. you have discussed the new legal instrument in depth, and you have made many amendments which will help to clarify the text and give it a better structure, notably regarding definition, scope and status, and by introducing references to the european strategy forum on research infrastructures (esfri). the commission will make all possible efforts to support the implementation of these amendments by the council. we are especially glad to see that we agree on the most vital aspect of the discussions taking place right now in council, and which risks blocking adoption – i mean the vat issue. as you know, all member states agree that it is necessary to exempt research infrastructures set up by several countries from taxes in the host country. many times, for working purposes, it is addressed as a tax exemption issue, which creates some confusion. in reality, it concerns only the implementation of the existing vat directive, which has already been agreed and adopted by the council. the real question is whether european research infrastructure should be given the status of international organisations, as defined in the vat directive, and, as such, be exempt from the vat payment. therefore, we are not talking about fiscal harmonisation but about setting up the legal entities related to research infrastructures. both the legal services of the commission and of the council have clearly stated that this is the right place. this is consequently purely a political decision on how important member states consider the setting-up of new world-class research facilities in europe to be. your unwavering support in this issue could be of great importance!
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the idea of the european research infrastructure (eri) is to create unique research workshops run by leading experts in specific methodologies. i think it should be characterized by a concentration of expensive, unique equipment and its scientific support. it is intended to serve as an experimental way of learning, mainly by induction, about the phenomena in the world around us, and as a result to solve practical problems. the eri should also serve the training of young scientists. i believe that the esfri european forum is not about replicating the existing centres of excellence, but about creating, on the basis of the structural and national funds, different and complementary units to those centres, which will create an infrastructure of specialised research units covering a uniform network throughout the union. young, ambitious european scientists will then not have to look for their ideas overseas. i believe that the eri's smooth functioning is therefore dependent on a high degree of specialisation on the one hand and facilitated mobility of the scientific community on the other. this will ensure that research organisations are more efficient by concentrating their activities over time and distributing them locally, i.e. by carrying out the basic research tasks simultaneously in different specialised international eri units which, as non-economic structures, would be exempt from taxation. i thank mrs madurell for her attention and congratulate her, and i wish the commission a speedy implementation of this interesting, but still needing to be clarified, concept for a regulation.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i'm going to quote mrs doyle here. at a time when we're experiencing an economic collapse, we cannot afford to make the mistake of neglecting science and research, the people who work in this field. i therefore support the action to give legal force to the european research infrastructure (eri). we must be aware that the eic requires both a legislative framework and adequate money, which individual regions or even countries cannot provide. the question of proper taxation is also important. i also believe that there is a need for better cooperation between academia and the economy, including small and medium-sized enterprises. i am convinced that the era will also help to improve the situation of scientists, especially young people, if there is a proper correlation with the framework programmes, as mr gierek has said. it may also prevent the brain drain from europe. the lisbon strategy calls for a 3% share of gdp for research and development. today, for the european union, the figure for 2007 is 1.84. so i trust that the eri will make this better.
in writing. as you know, mental health is one of the fundamental values for every human being, and we, as representatives of the european nations, cannot forget it. i think it is a good thing that we are dealing with this issue in the european parliament today. mental illness, suicide and depression have become a threat to modern societies, affecting not only those who live with constant stress but also children, young people and the elderly. i think we should take far-reaching steps to overcome these diseases of civilization. that's why i support the idea of research, free access to the results, and to the experts. while i thank you for your report on mental health, i also have some concerns about whether the idea of reaching out to both the elderly, of completely eliminating stigma and social exclusion, and of reaching out to those on the so-called social margins, is possible. these people are often characterized by hostility, alienation, and fear of being stigmatized in society. and i think the first thing that we need to focus on is a broad education so that everyone who needs help knows where to go, what kind of help they can get there, and most importantly, that they can get back to a normal life.
madam president! the union is facing its greatest economic challenge since its inception. the crisis requires, first, a thorough analysis of the errors in the economic strategy pursued so far. second, to indicate solutions that will work in the future. in this context, the tax system and vat should be analysed in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. however, there is no doubt that the principle should be that the member states have the freedom, liberty and sovereignty to determine the tax system and the amount of vat. we say a firm 'no!' to the unification of the tax system. newly joined countries, often backward, with specific demographic structures, with a large number of young citizens, require a completely different indirect tax policy than the countries of the old union. wherever possible, therefore, in newly admitted countries, vat should be as low as possible. on the other hand, throughout the union - and i have called for this myself - we should try to reduce vat where cultural goods are concerned, such as cds. on the other hand, it is necessary to propose taxation of financial and speculative transactions. what is happening today with capital transferred from the newly admitted countries is a denial of the possibility of control and a denial of the ideological foundations of the union.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the commission's proposal for reduced vat rates, i would like to draw attention to the importance of this proposal in combating the effects of the current crisis. member states now need effective instruments to protect jobs and prevent recessions. the reduction of vat rates on labour-intensive services fulfils this objective. it reduces the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, facilitates access to basic services and protects jobs. at the same time, it does not distort competition in the single market, as it supports local service activities, and at the same time it does not threaten budget revenues, as the principle of voluntary operation of reduced rates is preserved. parliament should support the commission's proposal and i hope that commissioner kovacs will succeed in convincing the whole council to accept it.
madam president! the so-called grey area is one of the most serious problems affecting every economy to a greater or lesser extent. the main reason for this is excessive tax burdens on the part of the state, which encourage entrepreneurs to carry out clandestine economic activities, bypassing the fiscal system. as a result, there is a huge loss to the budget and an increase in undeclared employment. in this context, the initiative to reduce vat rates on labour-intensive and locally supplied services on a permanent basis deserves particular support. it creates an incentive for economic operators to operate in the formal economy. it also promotes productivity and employment. at the same time, however, it is also necessary to take into account the possible negative consequences: the introduction of reduced rates for free competition in the european common market or the reduction of budget revenues. a balanced and transparent approach is therefore necessary, as the success of this project will depend on the confidence of the entrepreneurs.
madam president! in poland, the housing sector is already seeing the effects of the crisis, despite the huge demand for housing. poland has not yet rebuilt all the housing destroyed during world war ii. i support a substantial reduction in vat rates, particularly in housing, also for thermal insulation and repair work, not only but above all for the protection of jobs and social cohesion. the ageing of europe makes it necessary to pay particular attention to care services, and here again i would point out the need to reduce vat rates.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am fully aware of the shortcomings of the commission proposals: i know that they are modest and limited in scope. however, i am also aware of the reluctance of certain member states vis-à-vis reduced vat rates in general and the extension of reduced vat rates in particular. this reluctance certainly sets limits on our ambitions, as we need unanimity in the council. for the commission, there were two options. the first was to table an ambitious proposal, which is fully justified, and to run the risk that it might not be approved by the council. in that case, 18 member states that currently apply reduced vat rates on locally supplied, labour-intensive services should return to the standard rate. an increase in vat rates from 5-6% to 20-25% would certainly result in the bankruptcy of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs at a time of serious economic crisis. therefore, the commission has chosen the other option, which hopefully will receive unanimous support in the council: saving jobs, giving support to the smes and boosting the building sector. as many speakers mentioned the issue of energy efficiency, i want to repeat what i already said in my introductory remarks: in april we will come forward with a proposal that will be focused on climate change and energy efficiency issues, a review of the energy taxation directive, and the green tax package proposing reduced vat rates for green services that are aimed at increasing energy efficiency. i have been encouraged by the understanding and support expressed in this plenary debate. i thank parliament for its support and understanding, and in particular the committee on economic and monetary affairs and ms van den burg for their work.
in writing. taxation is a matter for the member states. however, a common framework should exist within the union to ensure the transparency and clarity of the law and the consistency and smooth functioning of the market. the people of my country cannot understand why ireland and the uk are using zero vat rates on children's goods, luxembourg has 3%, while poland should raise the rate from 7% to 22%. today, as we are experiencing the pain of the economic crisis, we must look for solutions that will support increased productivity and employment growth. harmonisation of vat exemptions is therefore highly desirable in order to avoid discriminatory effects of the application of this tax. the reduction in vat rates on labour-intensive services provided on the local market, including catering, should be seen as a very positive step, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and craft industries. of course, there will also be savings for consumers. these actions should also reduce the 'informal economy' and undeclared work. i therefore support the simplification and clarification of the provisions of vat directive 2006/112/ec, as they aim to level the playing field for member states. the current situation shows that it is worthwhile to have a substantive debate on the rationality of the application of the current form of the gst. there are countries where there are other types of indirect tax (e.g. the usa). they are generally characterised by a more dynamic, flexible and efficient economy. i've been talking about this for a while.
in writing. ensuring a level playing field for all member states and increasing transparency and consistency within them is of the utmost importance as it affects the smooth functioning of the internal market in the field of reduced vat rates. member states should be able to apply a reduced rate of vat, inter alia, to services provided locally. the application of the reduced vat rate should be left entirely to the member states, and the tax system should promote employment, increase efficiency and reduce the 'grey area' in the economy. harmonisation of vat exemptions is also necessary as this will help to ensure a balanced and uniform approach by the member states and to avoid adverse effects of the application of these vat rates. the reduction of vat rates on locally supplied labour services should have a positive impact, as it will reduce the scope of undeclared work, thereby reducing its attractiveness and increasing demand in the formal economy. however, in order not to prejudice the smooth functioning of the internal market, reduced rates should be applied with caution. the policy objective of reducing vat rates is to reduce undeclared work and to reduce possible administrative burdens.
madam president! it is necessary to increase the responsibility of adults for the living conditions and opportunities of children. i am thinking, for example, of the armed conflicts in which children are involved, often forced into the army, exposed to death, hunger and lack of medical care. however, i voted against this report because of its pro-abortion nature. it is a particular perversion to claim to be acting in the best interests of children, but in practice to promote actions against their right to life.
madam president! the transposition of directive 2002/14/ec on european works councils and consultation of workers is particularly important in times of crisis, when attention needs to be paid to the social responsibility of management to ensure that, where jobs cannot be safeguarded, workers are trained and transitioned smoothly into new employment. the framework directive should be implemented in the member states by both parties. that is why i voted in favour of mr cottigni's report.
madam president! the social economy plays an important role in local and regional development. in line with the lisbon strategy, this is part of the community's employment policy. statistics show that it is a powerful job creator in europe, employing 11 million people, or almost 7% of the working population. it is also worth highlighting the role of the social economy in rural development, supporting economic development by revitalising declining industrial areas and creating and sustaining jobs. we see it becoming essential for stable and sustainable economic growth through the enormous role it plays in solving new social problems. it is also strengthening its position in traditional sectors of the economy, such as trade, agriculture and industry. this is why it is so important to integrate the social economy into all strategies to promote industrial and socio-economic development.
madam president! not only the crisis situation made it necessary to see on the market of associations, foundations, cooperatives, the entire civil movement having its dimension not only social, but economically measurable, as a share in gdp. but now, especially, every job created, every new quality of service created, has a special value. i support this report and expect the european commission to adopt a new approach, which supports the social economy organisationally and financially, for example by simplifying administrative procedures for obtaining eu funds. that's why i voted for the report.
madam president! 90% of all suicides are the result of mental illness. the number of people suffering from depression and other diseases of civilization caused by stress and the pace of life is increasing dramatically. the ageing of europe is associated with an increase in the incidence of mental illnesses associated with old age. preventing mental illness, diagnosing it, tackling exclusion and stigma, and supporting people with mental illness and their families are important steps in the pursuit of public health. that's why i've been working on mrs. tzampazi's report with all my heart.
madam president! i am against the resolution and voted against its adoption for the following reasons: (1) there is a crisis and the union and other institutions have serious problems to deal with; (2) the costs incurred by the union in investigating alleged flights have amounted to millions of euros and have exposed the cases of those who murder and have murdered in a bestial way innocent people, including citizens of the union, and our duty is to protect citizens and help victims of terrorism. the very emotional approach to flights, as if making them a second, expensive political sensation, did not add any value and cost the european taxpayer. they say that education is a paid job, and we've paid for it, so we should remember that the next time we have a similar problem.
madam president! the eastern partnership is a very important project, and i want it to become one of the priorities of the european union's foreign policy. i'm going to list four key areas that i think we should focus on. the first is to promote democracy and human rights. this will ensure greater political stability in these countries and guarantee the protection of fundamental rights. secondly, economic integration and the creation of a free trade area. this will allow all parties to have greater access to new markets, which will increase demand, which is so important during the crisis. thirdly, security and stability in europe. i shall simply refer to the energy security of europe. to prevent the re-blocking of gas supplies to europe and the temptation of monopolistic exporters, it is necessary first of all to diversify energy sources and transit networks. fourth, to increase mobility and cultural and scientific exchange. these two areas of action are interlinked and complementary, contributing to a positive image of the union in the east by increasing mutual tolerance and scientific and research cooperation. the eastern partnership needs a separate debate in the european parliament.
in writing. − the social economy is in line with the basic principles of the european social model. its basic characteristics and values are: the primacy of persons and social goals over capital, the combination of the interests of members with the common interest, democratic control exercised by members. it represents 10% of all european enterprises and 6% of all employment. the social economy, also known as the solidarity economy or the third sector, is a key instrument for achieving the lisbon objectives. it has a significant potential for job creation and can be effectively used to achieve the objective of economic growth. the third sector plays a leading role in the european economy, combining profitability and solidarity. in the face of the financial crisis, which we have been watching with concern and trying ineffectively to combat, it is of the utmost importance to ensure financial stability. europeans fear losing their jobs and expect to be treated with dignity. the european union and its member states must respond to real needs, create real opportunities and create new hopes in the interests of all europeans. activating the solidarity economy is one way to improve the situation. i support the rapporteur's conclusions. the european commission should not only promote the social economy, but also take real steps to incorporate the way in which entities such as cooperatives, mutual societies, associations and foundations operate into legislation and develop a programme offering financial support, advice and training to potential and existing businesses.
in writing. - rationalizing energy consumption is a very important activity. the public should know that this is the most cost-effective way to combat climate change. but the positive effects will not be limited to the environment. the better we use energy, the less we need it, and therefore the less dependent we are on importing it. in the current situation where energy is used as a policy element, this is a fact that cannot be overestimated. we're using energy more and more rationally. the effects of such a policy are measurable. since 1990, eu output has increased by 40%, per capita income by a third, and energy demand by only 11%. a more rational energy management therefore contributes to the economic growth of each member state. energy efficiency and energy saving should play a key role both in reducing the growing demand for energy and in reducing the amount of fuel burned. reducing greenhouse gas emissions, more green energy, a more energy efficient economy is an opportunity to reduce our dependence on imported gas and oil. the european economy must become less vulnerable to energy price fluctuations, inflation and the risks associated with the geopolitical location of these resources.
in writing. − one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union's internal market is freedom of movement. it allows us not only to travel freely within the european union but also to take up employment. the number of people taking up this opportunity is constantly growing, the best example of which is the mobility of workers from the new member states, including poland, in recent years. today, around 2% of the total population of the european union lives and works in another member state. despite the removal of further barriers in the common internal market, for many people the fear of non-recognition of qualifications acquired in other member states remains one of the main obstacles to taking up work in another member state. hence today's report, which calls for the creation of a european professional card for service providers. the introduction of such an identity card could facilitate the mobility of representatives of certain professions, while providing certainty as to the qualifications of the worker using the document concerned, and increasing the transparency of qualifications, their recognition and comparability. i therefore welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report, which will certainly shape the further debate on the establishment of professional credentials.
in writing. - i abstained because i did not know the details of the amendments to the resolution.
in writing. - mr president, i have supported the report of mr saryusz-wolski. i am pleased that this report focuses mainly on the events of 2008, which were a test for the eu of the effectiveness of its foreign policy. once again, we have seen that europe's strength lies in its joint action. this also applies to the european institutions. they must cooperate with each other, just as the member states do, so that the european union can speak with one voice, especially on the international stage.
in writing. - i strongly supported the report by jacques sarkozy-wolski on the main aspects of the common foreign and security policy. the 2007 council report properly addresses these problems. it is hard to argue against the fact that the financial resources allocated to the cfsp are too small, especially in the face of the aggressive actions of terrorists. the right to live in peace and security is a priority for the union. this security has multiple dimensions: political, military, energy, food, etc. cooperation with other countries plays a major role in this. the transatlantic relationship with the us and canada and the strengthening of eu-nato cooperation are of particular importance. the eastern partnership can be considered as a highly promising one. in this respect, relations with russia, ukraine, georgia and belarus are noteworthy. the union can also have a toning effect on the situation in the middle east. the latest conflict in gaza shows the drama of the people living in the area, both palestinians and jews. the community will only be effective in security matters if it maintains unity of speech and unity of action. particularism can only bring temporary benefits. our universal solidarity also requires a special concern for respect for the fundamental values and rights of man and for the dignity and freedom of every human being. properly conducted diplomacy, including preventive diplomacy, can play a significant role in this area.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i have supported mr von wogau's report. i am strongly in favour of strengthening the european security and defence policy. the report stresses that the extension of cooperation between european armed forces is a necessary step towards defining a common foreign and defence policy. i also believe that the european union should ensure the security not only of itself but also of its neighbours. the conflicts of our neighbours, seemingly bilateral, have a direct impact on the eu.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the barcelona process aims to support the southern mediterranean countries in their development and independence. it is important that, in the context of the different programmes, these countries can exchange experiences with eu countries which have themselves recently undergone political and economic change. to this end, it is necessary to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation. i also supported this report because the union's support for the mediterranean region is not adversely affecting other regional cooperation initiatives, namely the eastern partnership.
in writing. − it is important to me that the barcelona agreement allows for the regulation of a number of strategic regional issues, such as energy security, environmental protection and water management. i would also like to point out the considerable progress made in the creation of the euro-mediterranean free trade area, which is due to be established in 2010, while stressing the need for a significant expansion of cooperation in the sectors of services (medical, educational), agriculture - the basis of the regional economy - and the related monitoring of food safety. finally, i would like to raise the issue of supporting democratic change in the mediterranean region. i believe that they are inextricably linked to the need to promote social integration and to encourage the active participation of the inhabitants of the mediterranean countries. dialogue, the promotion of intercultural and religious tolerance and educational projects can be the way to peaceful resolution of the conflicts in which the countries of the region are currently involved.
in writing. - i supported the report on the instruments of the neighbourhood policy today. i consider the countries to the east of the present union's borders to be our strategic partners. even if we cannot offer them a close prospect of membership, we should develop economic and political cooperation in our common european interest.
in writing. - i supported konrad szymanski's report on the revision of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. this is a good eu initiative aimed at developing cooperation between the community and the partner countries. the areas of cooperation shall include, inter alia, the promotion of political dialogue and reform, support for environmental protection and action on energy security, poverty reduction, gender equality, employment and social protection, support for cross-border cooperation, health promotion, education, protection of human rights, assistance in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and the promotion of cooperation in the fields of science, education, innovation and culture. a substantive and financial review of all ieps operational programmes, taking into account countries, regions and themes, is therefore necessary. these actions should extend free trade areas. it is also important to note that the eastern partnership should not hinder the accession of the neighbouring countries concerned. the provision for eur 500 million for the period 2008-2010 for the reconstruction of georgia from the war and for the assistance to refugees should be welcomed. i also accept the usefulness of analysing the scope of cooperation and the amount of financial resources provided to belarus in order to determine whether the policy of engagement with this country, launched in autumn 2008, can be continued. i also agree that there is a need for guarantees that the financial assistance provided to russia contributes to raising democratic standards in that country.
mr. chairman, please! last week an informal delegation of meps visited palestine and israel. we also visited the gaza strip. what we saw there arouses my deepest indignation and compassion for the occupied palestinian people. the un representatives present in the area are also outraged. mr president, i see only one solution: the creation of a palestinian state very quickly and unconditionally. in 1948, the jews did not ask the palestinians for their consent to their state. today, israel cannot block the will of the palestinians. i repeat, it is unconditional and urgent that this help be given to an oppressed people, putting an end to the old conflict. i believe it would strengthen peace around the world, but above all, let's just do it, because the palestinians deserve a state.
madam president! once again, i am forced to speak in this house about the rights of national minorities in lithuania, which are being ruthlessly violated and abused by the lithuanian authorities and the lithuanian judiciary. more than 70% of the polish population lives in the vilnius area. until now, the names of streets and towns have been bilingual, as in many european countries where national minorities live. recently, the supreme administrative court of lithuania ruled that it is illegal to put polish street names next to lithuanian street names and ordered that they be removed. the vilnius city government has done this the names of streets in the area where the majority is the polish minority, have been removed. this is unacceptable in a country that has been a member of the european union for five years. it is a manifestation of extreme nationalism, a lack of respect for the rights of national minorities and a violation of the fundamental principles on which the european union is built. i call on the lithuanian authorities to restore polish street names and town names in areas where the majority is the polish minority.
madam president! migration for work by eu citizens, mobility due to lack of work in the place of residence, poverty due to lack of work are often associated with reduced childcare and sometimes even with child neglect. the unfolding economic crisis threatens to cause a serious increase in unemployment. this could lead to an increase in the problem of street children. this means lack of adequate nutrition, lack of health care, lack of education, and sometimes exposure to crime. in an age of demographic collapse, this is not only a loss of development opportunities for individual children, but also a social threat to the next generation. it is necessary to prepare for this problem.
madam president! as someone for whom the ideals on which the european union is founded are more than just a slogan, i am delighted that the european parliament will be the venue for the debate on the 50th anniversary of the tibetan uprising. i'm both surprised and saddened that it's scheduled for march 12th. for those of you who don't remember, the tibetan uprising began on march 10th. however, on that day parliament will be dealing with issues such as the technical requirements for the approval of motor vehicles for general safety or the charging of road tolls on heavy goods vehicles. these are serious issues, but the people and institutions involved in the approval of trucks, their users and the vehicles themselves would not be offended if the debates mentioned above were replaced by deadlines. maybe march 10th is some unknown anniversary of this. it could be world truck approval day or approval day. it would be very bad for the european parliament if it turned out that the timing of the debate was based on a desire to downgrade it.
madam president! i don't want to discuss politics today. recently, one of my constituents, a staunch supporter of standardization, approached me with the issue of standardizing the terminals for cell phone power supplies. this may seem like a trivial matter on the surface. i believe that a resolution of this problem would be welcomed by all owners of these phones. from a technical point of view, it's very simple. this has worked for example with the cd standards: they fit all computers. maybe it's worth reviewing these little things to help our residents. they expect it.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. it takes a lot of courage to create a budget for 2010. the economic crisis that developed last year has not fully revealed its face. sadly, despite the efforts of many nations to curb it, poverty continues to grow, jobs are being lost, unemployment is rising, and entire families and communities, urban and rural, are being impoverished. the implementation of the tasks undertaken in the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework is facing increasing difficulties. last year, when the 2009 budget was drawn up, the level of funding was barely reached. can we sustain it in 2010? i hope so. this is the biggest challenge of the year. let's remember that solidarity is most important in times of crisis. we cannot abandon the noble tasks set out in the lisbon strategy. keeping in mind the economic diversity of the eu's member states, not all of them will be able to cope with the crisis, but solidarity can do a lot. we still have a chance at the mid-term review to change the policy, to focus on tackling the negative phenomena and to make this a priority of the priorities. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee on budgets, mr lászló surján and mr waldemar mańce, for their contribution to the work during such a difficult period.
madam president! the budgets adopted each year are unfortunately much smaller than those adopted under the multiannual financial framework. moreover, these budgets are implemented at an even lower level, resulting in significant amounts of outstanding commitments. this latter phenomenon in particular is the result of a complex system of rules and requirements imposed by the european commission, as well as the consequence of overly extensive rules introduced by the member states in relation to beneficiaries. in order to increase the level of budget implementation, a significant reduction in these bureaucratic responsibilities is necessary, both by the commission and by the individual member states. secondly, the deepening economic crisis in the union requires a greater use of both the budgetary resources of the european union and the banking resources of the european institutions to support the development of the member states, and in particular of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. finally, thirdly, it is also necessary to use, to a greater extent than before, the union budgetary resources, as well as bank resources, to ensure a genuine diversification of sources of supply of energy raw materials, in particular the nabukko project. without a real diversification of supply sources, especially natural gas, crises like the one in january will happen again.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 march 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council regulation on the statute for a european private company (com ((2008) 0396 - c6-0283/2008 - 2008/0130 ((cns)) (a6-0044/2009) - the report by klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs with recommendations to the commission on cross-border relocation of companies (2008/2196 ((ini)) (a6-0040/2009) - the report by edit herczog on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the small business act (2008/2237 ((ini)) (a6-0074/2009) - the commission's statement on the participation of employees in companies with european status.
unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to hear the committee on women’s rights and gender equality because ms podimata is not available at this moment.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to four points in this debate. firstly, i would like to express the hope that the report by mr lehne will be a strong stimulus for the european commission to prepare appropriate legal solutions which, in accordance with the freedom of establishment guaranteed by the treaty of the european communities, will allow companies to move their headquarters within the european union without unnecessary red tape. secondly, such transfers should, however, allow existing shareholder and creditor rights and, above all, workers' rights to be protected. i would also like to express the hope that the solutions proposed by the rapporteur, namely the drawing up of a transfer plan and in particular an explanatory report on the legal aspects, and in particular the economic aspects and consequences of the transfer for shareholders and employees, will not be an additional obstacle to the transfer of companies. finally, fourthly, the specific incentive to propose such solutions seems to have been the perception of the positive impact of tax competition, and also wage competition, on the acceleration of economic growth in individual member states and, consequently, in the european union as a whole.
madam president! the financial crisis and the resulting economic crisis have prompted employers to try to change the legal status of their establishments in order to reduce operating costs, including those related to the implementation of workers' rights and social obligations. they therefore seek to establish their companies in countries where the laws and economic conditions offer a chance to reduce costs because legal obligations, such as the minimum wage or pension contributions, are lower. the report notes that cross-border relocation of company headquarters should not lead to circumvention of legal, social and tax rules. the workers' rights cannot be violated. we must not allow this to spiral downward in social standards. small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported in a different way, for example by means of loans.
madam president! the adoption of the statute of the european private company will make it possible to create such companies operating in all member states on a uniform basis. the main objective is to counter the current burdensome obligations imposed on smes operating in a multinational environment. in order to do so, they are in fact forced to set up a home company in the country of destination, which obviously entails enormous costs in the 27 different legal systems. the european private company will enable them to register their activities in the same form, whether they are operating in their home country or in any other member state. the savings in time and money on legal advice, management and administrative procedures are undoubtedly a significant facilitation and convenience for entrepreneurs wishing to invest. one of the main concerns of the sceptics is that the capital requirement is not sufficient to cover the creditors. nothing could be more wrong. the most popular form of limited company in the world is the limited company. in our day and age, share capital has been stripped of its most important function, namely, the protection of creditors. in the sep, this protection is taken over by other mechanisms, based mainly on increased transparency of the company's activities and closer cooperation with creditors. the trading partners themselves no longer pay as much attention to the share capital as to the cash flows, which tell much more about the solvency of the company than the capital itself. the issue of workers' rights remains - here, in particular, trade unions are concerned about the abandonment of the standards achieved. i'm calling this a false alarm. the proposed statute contains a clear provision that the participation of employees is to be in accordance with the provisions of national law. a certain danger to the attractiveness of the european private company could be that the employee participation threshold is set too low. i think that the minimum of 500 employees should be maintained so as not to impose additional costs on smaller companies.
madam president! this legislative proposal largely reflects the european parliament's resolution of two years ago, which contained recommendations to the commission on the statute for a european private company. the aim of the proposal is to create a uniform form of company under community law, attractive to small and medium-sized enterprises, created under simplified conditions, with minimal bureaucratic burdens. the commission proposes that the amount of eur 10 000 may be a good threshold for the company's image, but on the other hand, this amount is more difficult to raise in some member states than in others. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the law of the state in which the company has its registered office should govern employee participation in the company. however, an exception to that rule should be made where the right of participation of a certain part of the employees of a company which they would enjoy in the member state where they actually work would be restricted by the law in force in the country where the european company is established. in such a case, the management of the company is obliged to create a single system of participation for the company as part of a solution negotiated with the employees' representatives. finally, i would like to add that this new company form does not replace the existing national company forms but offers an alternative to them, and only if certain conditions for the establishment of such an undertaking are met.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank the french presidency once again for making a major step forward on asylum, leading to the adoption of the european pact on migration and asylum by the european council in october last year. it is true that the european union needs a common asylum policy and a solidarity attitude in accepting refugees. the union's assistance should be directed to those countries which are particularly vulnerable to the influx of asylum seekers. the issue of asylum is a very delicate one. it is difficult to judge who is really in need of care and who is fleeing poverty in their own country, and although the latter also deserve help, we cannot accept everyone. in conclusion, our eu procedures should be common, transparent and fast.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. last year, the number of refugees worldwide rose to over 12 million, while 26 million citizens were internally displaced, indicating the gravity of the problem. unfortunately, the standards are not uniform in any way, as the acceptance rate of asylum applications for certain third-country nationals varies from around 0% to 90% within the member states. a uniform asylum procedure and uniform standards for determining who is recognised as a refugee or a person in need of international protection should be established. all decision-makers should have equal access to professional information concerning the country of origin, the appeal authorities and asylum seekers. it is essential that authorities take into account the diverse needs of asylum seekers who are in a more difficult situation, such as children, persons with disabilities and women, during the waiting period. the establishment of a common database is necessary to present and collect information on countries of origin. it is worth noting that the obligation to provide assistance is guaranteed by the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) and is legally binding on the member states of the european union and on frontex.
in writing. mr president,quality is the keyword in the whole food chain from farm to fork. it is vital to make eu consumers aware of the high food quality requirements and standards that our farmers and agri-food producers have to meet, and the costs that this entails. eu food is of high quality and standards, which is not always the case with imported goods. i do not think we should create another system of certificates at community level, another label for food in the eu. it'll confuse the consumer. instead, we should focus on the promotion and information activities of existing eu labels, which should be associated with quality assurance in the consumer's mind. another challenge is to streamline the process of examining applications for regional products and to speed up registration. unfortunately, the european commission has been dealing with them for years. the regions of małopolska and świętokrzyskie are still waiting for such products as korczyń beans, fox sausage, hanging cherry, plum, meadow apples, kraków obwarzanek or beans from the danube valley to be registered.
mr. chairman, please! the draft legislative resolution on industrial missions shows a strong tendency to limit the important environmental aspects of this directive in attempts to introduce increasingly extensive references to the greenhouse effect. many of the amendment proposals drastically tighten the emission standards for compounds emitted by combustion plants which are not directly toxic, while other draft amendments liberalize or only slightly tighten the rules on the incineration or co-incineration of waste. carbon dioxide emissions are not toxic, but emissions of dioxins, furans, hydrochlorides, hydrofluorocarbons, heavy metals and other highly harmful compounds are a real and immediate threat to human health and the environment. the strict monitoring of both the type of waste burned and the hazardous substances generated by the combustion is an important safety condition for the thermal disposal of waste. the introduction of loose thresholds requiring appropriate prevention measures in the event of emissions exceeding those thresholds may result in environmental pollution and health risks. the overall approach proposed shows unequal treatment of different classes of installations, with a particularly restrictive approach to conventional-fuel-fired solar energy installations.
mr. chairman, please! as you know, the community institutions and bodies must take decisions in a very open and transparent manner. it's the foundation of democracy. in accordance with this principle, citizens and elected bodies should have the widest possible access to documents held by the european institutions, including our parliament. this will allow citizens to participate effectively in the political process and to ask the public authorities for clarification. despite the efforts of the european institutions to increase openness and transparency, this situation is unfortunately far from being what it was intended to be. the committee on petitions is convinced that citizens are aware of the flaws and shortcomings in the application of this right. it is of the utmost importance that citizens are given full access to all documents at every stage of the exercise of their rights, for example in infringement proceedings, which are often the result of petitions from citizens. this should also apply to documents provided by member states to the european institutions. there was a big problem with that, for example in the committee on petitions, in the so-called german jugendamt case, where access to information that would have seemed public was very limited. the success of a european transparency initiative should be based on the applicant's easy access to the information he needs. that's what the rules of democracy require.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mr michael cashman on an excellent report which touches on one of the most important aspects of european democracy. the european union is undergoing systematic change and transformation. unfortunately, communication between the union and its citizens has largely not kept pace with these changes. the same applies to access to documents and information whose end users are the citizens. the principle of transparency is a fundamental principle of the european union, as expressed in article 255 of the treaty establishing the european community. every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a member state shall have the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the interest of citizens in europe and the trust they place in the union's institutions and in european and national politicians can only be built up by full and reliable information. it is therefore our duty to maximise the transparency and efficiency of the european union institutions. we should focus on making it easier for users to access information, further simplifying the system and its tools. the regulation to which this report relates is a good legal basis, but it needs to be improved and streamlined. i therefore regret that the commission did not take into account the 2006 rapporteur's request for transparency.
mr president, i would like to say a few serious and important words, if you will allow me. we have just passed the anniversary of the barbaric murder, by a shot in the back of the head, of 20 000 polish officers and intelligentsia in katyń in 1940 on the order of the ‘father of nations’, joseph stalin. this meant the elimination of the leaders and elites of a nation fighting for its own, and europe’s, freedom. four years ago i asked for a minute’s silence to commemorate them, but the house refused. therefore, i will not ask for this today and will free the presidency from what appears to be such a difficult decision. instead, i want to remind us of this tragedy and to express the wish that our common efforts can prevent genocides of this kind on the european continent in the future. (applause)
mr president, in my judgement, the introduction of this beautiful high technology here was intended to save our time and increase our efficiency. you know my respect for the manner in which you preside here, but could you spare us the enumeration of the results in such detail. you can declare ‘adopted’ or ‘not adopted’. this is enough. we have everything on our screens.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the state of israel on certain aspects of air services. i agree with the rapporteur's request for the conclusion of the agreement. i believe that the amendments on the issue of the designation clause, the taxation of aviation fuel and the fixing of prices are justified changes to the bilateral agreements currently in force. i hope that building on mutual trust in each other's systems will facilitate the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the next steps in the development of border management in the european union, giving conditional support to its theses. i would like to draw attention to a few important aspects which should be taken into account in the future. an area without internal borders cannot function without responsibility for its management. the important element should be to increase border security, which must go hand in hand with facilitating the movement of people in an increasingly unified europe. the ultimate aim should be to strike a balance between ensuring the free movement of persons and guaranteeing greater security for european citizens. the key element should be an approach based on the desire to protect privacy in order not to misuse travellers' personal data and on trust in the authorities in possession of the data. the use of personal data confers advantages in the area of public security. however, we must remember that public trust in the actions of the authorities should be the basis of any legal action in this area. this requires absolute data security and proper data supervision.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i have supported the report by mr giusto catani. i believe that the dublin regulation should be revised so that the determination of the competent state for the examination of an asylum application takes into account the individual needs of asylum seekers. the emphasis should be on integrating them into their new environment and ensuring that they have the opportunity to learn the language of the country in which they are staying, which will increase their chances of assimilating into the new culture.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i supported mr schwab's report on reducing co2 emissions and improving road safety. it is important that efforts to reduce co2 emissions are not made at the expense of other equally important aspects of car design and do not have a negative impact on road safety. i believe that by stimulating and investing in the development of innovative european industry, we can effectively defend jobs in this sector, which has been hit hardest by the financial crisis.
in writing. − the recently adopted energy and climate package requires us to take decisive action to achieve its objectives. the eu's past action to reduce industrial emissions has been characterised by a lack of coherence and coordination, as well as by a high degree of dispersion. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's initiative and the rapporteur's suggestions. replacing the numerous directives on industrial emissions with a single, coherent act is certainly a step in the right direction. i can also support any initiative to reduce red tape, make the rules on plant inspections more flexible and increase transparency. i also fully support the rapporteur's proposal to increase the role of the european parliament in the work on future legislative changes.
in writing. − in times of economic crisis, the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is very desirable. we should aim to remove administrative and legal barriers for all those who want to start a business. the procedural requirements, the red tape, the high costs of registration should not stand in the way of the development of people who have a business idea. new businesses are new jobs, they're fueling economic growth. the european union is made up of 27 countries, each with a different legal system and different rules for company formation. the creation of a single eu-wide form of business - the european private company - will certainly make life easier for all those who want to start a business and will make the principle of free movement of capital more effective. the same requirements for incorporation and operation, low share capital, simplified registration methods will certainly contribute to the success of the european private company. it will be a very attractive alternative to national regulations. so, quickly, cheaply and without any unnecessary formalities, but with the appropriate level of legal certainty.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i supported the report by mrs maria petre on food quality assurance. at the same time, i am concerned that the difference between protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi) is not known to the average consumer. i think that an information campaign on this is necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria petre on food quality assurance. the question of harmonisation and mutual recognition of food standards is of great importance for the protection of human health. today, there is a growing awareness of the relationship between the incidence of various diseases and the quality of the food we eat. the very term "healthy food" seems to contain a paradox. after all, can something that is known to be unhealthy be called food? the quality of food products is fundamental to the food security of our citizens. the criteria to be met by those products must be clear, in line with the state of the art and with the principles of hygiene and contribute to the protection of the environment, respecting the principles of the proper treatment of animals for slaughter. foodstuffs must also be properly packaged, transported and stored. the consumer should also have full information on the product purchased, its ingredients, any genetic modification, the place of manufacture, storage conditions, the method of preparation, the date of suitability for consumption, guaranteeing good quality. the rapporteur is in favour of introducing at european commission level services responsible for food certification and quality issues to ensure minimum eu certification standards. this should ensure a uniform control system at eu and member state level. the report, based on an earlier resolution, supports the introduction of a specific quality label for european products.
in writing. - i supported the report by ms edit herczog on the small business charter small business act because i see it as an important piece of legislation for the smallest businesses, which currently provide some 100 million jobs in the eu. they represent almost 99% of all eu companies. in this context, and given that the current crisis situation threatens to cause serious economic disruption, it is necessary to bring into force legal regulations at eu level to facilitate the functioning of these undertakings. this should be the case in particular with regard to matters such as the transfer of ownership of undertakings (in particular in the event of the owner's illness or retirement), the harmonisation of payment dates in commercial transactions (so that 'credit failures' do not arise). the document also emphasises the importance of innovation, research, patents and inventions and the protection of intellectual property, as well as electronic commerce, for these companies. small and medium-sized enterprises should also be guaranteed access to sources of financing, including european funds and loans. a separate but equally important issue is the reduction of red tape, which is a nightmare for many smes. the ten principles for policy orientation towards small enterprises, both at eu and member state level, are commendable. i also consider it important to stress the need to support and promote the activities of smes in crossborder settings in the eu single market.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report drawn up by mr de grandes pascual on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the committee on transport and tourism in the draft resolution ccocococo (pe) c23/068/0024 (coco) c24/06 (coco) c24/06 (coco) c24/06 (coco) c24/06 (coco) c24/06 (coco) c24/07 (co) c24/06 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/07 (co) c24/08 (co) c24/080) c24/07 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-09 (co) c24/08-08-09 (co) c) c24/08-08-044/08-08-08-08-09 (co) c) c24/08-044 (co) the report by mr de grandes pascual on the
mr. chairman, please! the crisis which is increasingly affecting transport companies should be a warning against introducing new regulations in the field of transport charges, unless we are looking for something else, namely to deepen it. transport has always been considered the lifeblood of the economy. we have had a bad experience with the reform of the common agricultural policy, so we will have another one. we must remember that the transport companies are not large companies but small, low-income enterprises. we don't pass on the cost of running the country to them. this is true of fuel taxes, insurance, road tolls, and many other charges. the idea of introducing external cost charges will increase transport costs significantly and implies double charges for the same. of course, you have to transport the goods, because there will always be producers and consumers of goods, that means transporting them. but do we have to move infrastructure to it? i ask that you suspend further action until better times or that you reject the commission's proposal altogether.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to pay tribute to our rapporteur, mr el khadraoui. he did a great job. he's dealt with hundreds of comments. i would like to say that the road transport sector is the de facto motor of europe. it is true that we are deciding whether to impose additional charges. but the idea itself seems to be right, that we pay for what we consume. when we planned to work on this directive, we didn't plan for a crisis. i am obliged to say on behalf of the carriers that their situation is indeed getting worse, especially as international road transport is falling. the carriers point to the high financial burden, especially the taxes linked to fuel prices. there is a temporary respite in fuel costs, but we as a union cannot guarantee prices in the long term. i think that there is a need for dialogue between the european commission and the government and the professional carriers. they should be given an explanation of why the initiative has been set up. they must also be convinced that we want to treat all transport sectors equally, that we are, after all, largely responsible for a sensible, sustainable european transport policy.
in writing. in the current debate, three aspects should be highlighted, arising from three issues: vehicle charging, environmentally friendly transport and the internalisation of external costs. the first priority of union initiatives should be to guarantee the right of community citizens to unrestricted mobility and to promote it by consistently implementing the objectives of the european union infrastructure development plan. this is due to the treaty's principle of 4 freedoms of internal debate. investment in infrastructure development should be based on environmental priorities that take into account the objectives of the european union in the fight against climate change. the development of modern and integrated infrastructure should be based on the principles of intermodality and interoperability. the costs of environmental protection, noise, congestion and health are all linked to the transformation of europe's fast-developing infrastructure. it seems appropriate that the 'polluter pays' principle proposed in this document should apply - which, it should be recalled, has been in place for some years in the social business environment.
madam president! sometimes i get the impression that the richer a country is, the less money is spent on child care, child rearing and education. and yet europe is facing a demographic crisis. we should do everything we can to encourage women and men to start families and have as many children as possible. in many eu countries, the right to a nursery is guaranteed before the birth of the child. how can you talk about a woman getting back to work so easily? in addition, many women do not seek their first job until after the birth of their child. let the attitude of european citizens towards their families and children be the benchmark of our culture and civilization.
madam president! a nursery is always evil, sometimes a necessary evil, but always evil. i'll never forget how i had to put my three-month-old brother in the nursery because my mom had to go to work early. the one who cuddles and doesn't want to be picked up. i think that when we talk about whether the child's best interests or the parents' careers are important, the child's best interests should always come first. we need kindergartens, we need nurseries, wherever there is a need, an absolute need. but above all, we need to give those parents, especially those mothers who want to stay at home with their little ones, who want to provide them with care and proper emotional development, a chance, help. we need both financial help and counseling. and that's what you have to remember. if we're talking about child care, let's talk about children, what they need, not what we'd like to do for our own convenience.
madam president! i want to say two words, as a psychologist and as a politician. we're seeing a shift in life: women in the workforce are a new phenomenon, fathers are more and more busy, women are fighting for their rights. it all sounds logical and modern, even socialist. but one thing that remains constant and hard to change is the individual psychological needs of children. there is no progress here, no revolutionary change. to satisfy them, to make these children mature citizens, it takes the efforts of normal women and normal men, without ideology, without pretensions, without quasi-modern methods, but naturally, with care, sometimes with sacrifice, even with a partial renunciation of oneself and one's own ambitions. it is for the good of the children, and therefore for the happiness of the parents, and ultimately for the development of a normal european society in which i would like to live.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i think the debate has clearly shown that this is an important issue to be addressed, notwithstanding that at the moment there is not yet enough information to be able to form a firm opinion, but the facts that are known are strong enough to make it clear that we must address the issue and be active. i have noted that the commission has already prepared some studies, one of which will be completed before the end of this year. i also think it is clear that the main part of the answer and the main part of the response is up to the member states, because family policy in general is a matter for the member states. there are certainly opportunities for the european union as such, because the issues that affect migrant workers also affect their social security, the transfer of social benefits and many other things. so my answer to your question is that this is primarily a question for the member states, but the european union has its own role to play, and in my view it is not insignificant.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, business and workers are beginning to feel the effects of the financial and economic crisis. although the situation varies from one member state to another, the employment situation in europe is generally deteriorating. in 2009, total employment could decrease by 1,6%, representing a loss of 3,5 million jobs. the unemployment rate in the european union could be around 10% in 2010. every day, businesses announce that they will be restructured or relocated, often with the loss of many jobs. unfortunately, the situation of qimonda, which announced the closure of its plants in germany and portugal, is not unique. the commission is aware of the negative effects that restructuring can have on workers, their families and the economic and social fabric of the region. however, i would like to stress that the commission has no power to reverse or delay a decision of an undertaking and that undertakings are not obliged to inform the commission of their decisions. i have to say that neither qimonda's management nor their employee representatives contacted the commission. in this context, the commission would like to recall a number of points. in particular, it is necessary to better anticipate and manage restructuring through intensive dialogue with employee representatives and other stakeholders. i think that the newly adopted directive or the amended directive on works councils is one of the great contributions of the eu in this matter. in this context, it is all the more important that the undertakings concerned take care to comply with the obligations arising from the community directives on informing and consulting employees. the commission also calls on businesses to put in place measures to maximise the retention of workers through flexible working arrangements and the use of temporary redundancy for economic reasons. most member states have introduced targeted measures to promote employment and limit the impact of the crisis on citizens. these measures cover four broad areas: keeping workers in employment, rapid reintegration of workers into work, support for the most vulnerable groups through income support, extension of the period of unemployment benefits or increase of family benefits, and strengthening of social protection and investment in social and health infrastructures. to help member states cope with the crisis and its social consequences, the commission has strengthened financial instruments at european level. the european social fund, which helps 9 million workers every year, was simplified, allowing €1.8 billion in project advances to be released. i hope that the european parliament and the council will reach a swift agreement on this issue. the commission will also support those member states wishing to reprogram the european social fund. member states may also request assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of workers made redundant. in the european economic recovery plan, the commission proposed to broaden the eligibility criteria in order to better respond to the current economic crisis. i hope that parliament and the council will reach a compromise quickly here too. the commission is prepared to assess, together with the german or portuguese authorities, any possible application for support from the european funds. the commission also promotes social dialogue at european level, as the social partners play a crucial role in crisis management. the european social partners are also expected to present a joint contribution to the crisis management at the tripartite meeting on 19 march. it is important for the commission to act together to combat the short-term effects of the crisis and to work towards a future economic recovery. the commission had this objective in mind when it launched the european employment initiative as part of the european economic recovery plan. on 4 march, the commission also adopted a contribution to the european council of 19 and 20 march, which will focus, inter alia, on the need and means of supporting workers affected by the crisis and those who are vulnerable on the labour market. the commission also welcomes the czech presidency's initiative to organise an employment and social affairs summit in may 2009. the aim of this meeting will be to assess the situation and to determine concrete measures. it should lead to a common approach to reducing the social impact of the crisis, to a new consensus with the social partners and stakeholders on the modernisation of social policies and to concrete measures to accelerate economic recovery and overcome the crisis by addressing structural labour market shortcomings.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the german company qimonda, one of the world's largest manufacturers of memory chips, has declared bankruptcy. last year, it received a grant of 325 million euros. that help wasn't enough. in 2007, qimonda employed 13,5 thousand people. in december last year, their salaries were cut by 10 to 15%, with the guarantee of a refund of the amount deducted by april of this year. meanwhile, 500 workers lost their jobs overnight. they were not paid salaries, compensation for vacations not taken or for the time off they were due. another 500 people will lose their jobs in the next month. another 1,500 employees are also at risk of redundancies. there are more such establishments in our countries, for example in krośnie or in stalowa wola in poland. we expect the european commission to have a coherent programme to protect jobs in times of crisis.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon strategy's ten-year objectives are clearly set to fail. neither this strategy nor the constantly invoked treaty of lisbon is a real response to the global economic crisis. at the next council summit, the irish prime minister will report on the steps taken to implement the lisbon treaty. following the example of the french and the dutch, ireland rejected the amended version of the european constitution in a referendum. they failed to persuade the people of this country to give up some of their sovereignty to a bureaucratic structure called the european union. now, instead of waiting for the german constitutional court to decide whether to bury the treaty, the irish are being persuaded by promises of privileges that are not in the document. in the face of the enormous economic crisis, i call for an end to the pointless disputes within the eu and for concrete action to be taken in a spirit of solidarity, on the basis of the existing treaties.
mr. chairman, please! the union needs a real strategy to repair the economy like air. for this strategy to be effective, the following conditions must be met: first, the union needs a growing budget, not a declining one per cent to 0.8 per cent of gdp, as some countries claim. secondly, we must restore the freedom of fiscal and budgetary policy and stop trying to impose and unify these policies. third, pressure on newly admitted countries to join the euro area should be dropped. fourth, we need to put in place precise controls on the flow of financial capital and stop the transfer of capital from the newly admitted countries to the rich ones. today, this robbery is worth tens of billions of dollars and is ruining the newly admitted countries. fifthly, support and assistance should be directed primarily to the countries and regions most affected, not to the way that shipyards are closed in poland and guns in france and germany. sixth, the infrastructure investment programme should be geared to closing the gaps and backwardness, especially in the newly admitted countries.
madam president! the title of mr kirilov's report - congratulations - suggests that we can also talk about the non-real economy. so there's a virtual economy and virtual money, but there's actually the signatures of bankers and auditors saying that everything is fine. turns out it wasn't true, it was a bluff. today we face the challenges of economic and moral crisis. in this context, investing in regional development and cohesion is both sensible and necessary. because it's going to be actual miles of roads, modernized rail lines, airports. let us invest in science and education, in innovative solutions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. let's cut down on the red tape. it'll bring jobs to thousands of people, it'll be bread for them. it will also be a real policy of solidarity, not protectionism. it will be the realization of lisbon.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was also impressed by the fact that the commission had already taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders. i don't think that blaming and pointing fingers at each other about who deserves to be in the eu is the panacea for our problems. first of all, let's remember that we're listening to the citizens who expect us to protect them. they want to see what a united europe is for right now. in this debate, we should be thinking about how to reduce the social impact of the current crisis. we say 'yes' to the lisbon strategy because it is working; because it has created almost 7 million new jobs in the eu. what kind of jobs are these? very often it is part-time, temporary work, and in fact the employment rate, in terms of full-time, is not changing. this is just proof that europe must learn to exploit its potential. we should invest in high-tech products that require highly skilled workers, that's our added value, a sector in which we are unrivalled. the extension of the time limits for using the funds or the simplification of the procedures for applying for them is particularly important for the new member states.
in writing. how to counter the financial crisis? (european recovery plan) the financial crisis can be prevented in the short term and in the long term. the temporary approach is to remove the pathologies that have developed over the last few decades, leading to: banks losing liquidity; trading in 'infected' securities; lack of coherence between the financial and real policy spheres. by helping countries financially, banks are not eliminating the causes of this crisis. the fundamental cause of the crisis is, in my opinion, the neoliberal mechanism of the economy, i.e. its focus on immediate profit, overlooking long-term interests. the long-term approach should therefore adjust the mechanism of the economy to break with the dogmas of the so-called free market. member states and the european commission should not replace healthy competitive market mechanisms, but they have a duty to prevent pathologies. first, the short-term profit should not obscure the long-term interests involved in developing infrastructure, social services, environmental protection, the search for new, sometimes less profitable, sources of energy, etc. secondly, all forms of ownership should be treated equally and their choice should be determined by the efficiency of the management. thirdly, the member states and the european commission should take on the role of coordinator in both the financial and the real spheres. fourthly, the member states and the european commission must develop methods of coordinating the international monetary and financial market, which is inherently prone to speculation.
in writing. the economic crisis has already reached europe. it first affected developed economies and then spread to developing and emerging economies. the latest forecasts for 2009 project economic growth of -1% or below. so we are in one of the most severe recessions that the european community has ever seen. i agree with the rapporteur that individual national action is no longer enough, even if it is backed up by huge capital transfers to the sectors most vulnerable to the crisis. our economies are interconnected and the crisis is global, so the proposed remedies must also be a global response and have the same scope. they must also take into account the eu's fundamental principle of solidarity. it is the only way to preserve territorial and social cohesion within the union. i believe that in times of crisis the principle of solidarity also takes on a new political dimension. i also support the report's concern for the average person in crisis. we need to get credit back to families and businesses, and especially to smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. this objective alone, together with the protection of the savings of citizens, justifies the use of public funds for rescue plans. and if we could eliminate the so-called tax havens as part of the european rescue plan, then the fight against the crisis would certainly be easier and more effective.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today we are debating the recovery plan in relation to the lisbon priorities. despite the fact that several years have passed since the strategy was announced, we see that it is not being implemented, that is, we produce documents that are not then implemented. this is only confirmed by a custom which has become the norm in this parliament, namely, that of blaming the citizens for regulations which in many cases make life difficult for them and which have no real impact on their standard of living. the ongoing financial crisis also shows that the european commission and the council have completely disengaged from the daily problems of society. after all, the commission has no real action programme in relation to the ongoing crisis. it is clear that the individual countries are taking the necessary measures to save themselves, and that a market of 500 million people managed centrally is not able to make any real difference to the scale of the crisis. in recent years, eastern european countries have been told that they should privatize their banks, that is, subordinate them to western european banks. and so naively they did, and today it is these banks that speculate and kill the economies of the new eu members.
madam president! charging extra fees for trucks is an increase in taxes. the trucking industry provides services to the economy, to the citizens. its cost affects the price of all the products we consume. charging transportation with additional costs on top of already paid taxes, excise duty on fuel and wine now that we have a crisis problem that we don't know when it will end is a social irresponsibility. air pollution, the greenhouse effect, accidents are all highly dependent on vehicle design and transportation. in this area, considerable progress has been made over the past ten years, to the benefit of all of us. i do not support a directive in its present form which requires radical rewording.
in writing. - the principle of solidarity is a fundamental and unquestioned principle in the european union. it is this principle, which is not just on paper, that distinguishes the union from other international organisations. the practical expression of this is undoubtedly the solidarity fund, launched by the 2006 interinstitutional agreement to counter the negative consequences of 'serious natural disasters'. it is good that the fund is working, that last year five countries benefited from it. this is proof that no eu country is left alone in the face of tragedy. the floods that hit five counties in the north-east of romania in july 2008 caused severe material damage (0,6% of gnp) and disrupted the lives of over 2 million inhabitants in 214 municipalities. in this context, i consider romania's request for assistance, even if it does not meet the quantitative criteria set out in article 2 (1) of regulation 2012/2002 establishing the eu solidarity fund, to be justified. i also have no doubt that the 'extraordinary natural disaster' criterion, also laid down in that regulation and allowing the fund to be mobilised for romania, should be applied in this case. as a polish mep from the region, who was also affected by the natural disaster (the air horn in the silesian voivodeship) in the summer of 2008, fortunately not of such enormous destructive power and scale, i understand and fully support this tangible proof of european solidarity.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on port state control (recast). i agree with the objectives set out in the third maritime package. the seven proposals in the package are designed to prevent accidents (improving the quality of european flags, revising legislation on port state control and vessel traffic monitoring and improving the rules on classification societies) and to ensure an effective response to accidents (developing a harmonised framework for accident investigation, introducing provisions on compensation for passengers in the event of accidents and introducing provisions on the liability of ship owners in conjunction with a compulsory insurance scheme). i would like to express my support for the agreement which has been drawn up, and in particular for the following points: the extension of the scope to include vessels anchored in anchorages, the more frequent inspections of vessels, and the permanent prohibition of vessels under certain conditions.
in writing. − i vote in favour of the report on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee concerning a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/59/ec establishing a community vessel traffic monitoring and information system. i agree with the objectives set out in the third maritime package. the seven proposals in the package are designed to prevent accidents (improving the quality of european flags, revising legislation on port state control and vessel traffic monitoring and improving the rules on classification societies) and to ensure an effective response to accidents (developing a harmonised framework for accident investigation, introducing provisions on compensation for passengers in the event of accidents and introducing provisions on the liability of ship owners in conjunction with a compulsory insurance scheme). as the co-rapporteur of mr sterckx's report, i wish to express my full support for the document voted on.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee concerning a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down the basic principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending directives 1999/35/ec and 2002/59/ec. i agree with the objectives set out in the third maritime package. the seven proposals in the package are designed to prevent accidents (improving the quality of european flags, revising legislation on port state control and vessel traffic monitoring and improving the rules on classification societies) and to ensure an effective response to accidents (developing a harmonised framework for accident investigation, introducing provisions on compensation for passengers in the event of accidents and introducing provisions on the liability of ship owners in conjunction with a compulsory insurance scheme). i would like to express my support for the agreement reached, and in particular for the following points: methodology of accident investigations, decision on the investigation, fair treatment of seafarers, protection of witnesses/confidentiality of documents.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today to adopt a draft directive on so-called 'euro-vinettes', which allow member states to charge for the use of road infrastructure by lorries. in the final vote i voted against the adoption of this directive. i believe that the introduction of the provisions of this directive will contribute to the increase in costs for transport service providers. such costs may be particularly severe for small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have sufficient financial resources to replace their vehicle fleet. moreover, such rules can be difficult for companies in the current financial crisis, when many companies face difficulties in accessing credit. we should certainly look for ways to allow greener vehicles on our roads, but we should not use measures that are really just another form of corporate taxation.
in writing. − not only did i vote against this report, but i also consider it dangerous to the european common market. this is mainly because of its unfair character and the fact it acts like a concealed tax. moreover, it will not contribute to environmental protection. during this time of financial crisis it is kind of absurd. this type of regulation shows that the eu is turning its head away from its citizens.
in writing. − the report on the european economic recovery plan adopted today supports the actions proposed by the european commission to contribute to the recovery of the european economy. the data from the last few weeks is not very optimistic. economic growth in europe is estimated to remain below zero in 2009. unemployment is also rising across the eu. this is the most serious recession to hit the european community and the first since the introduction of the single currency. this calls for decisive action to create new jobs and real economic growth. the key issue is of course to 'heal' the financial system so that businesses (especially smes, which are the backbone of the european economy) and citizens have access to credit. therefore, effective and rapid recovery of credit must be ensured as a matter of urgency. aid to combat the crisis cannot be directed solely to rescuing selected sectors. such aid is inevitable, but it should also take account of a sustainable approach to the competitiveness of european industry. the crisis must not be used as an opportunity to introduce new, overly burdensome regulations. i hope that the european economic recovery plan will soon bear fruit in the form of the first signs of economic recovery.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation we are discussing is a telling example of how it is sometimes easier to reach consensus and get political agreement on open borders than to overcome technical problems. the entry of the new member states into schengen on 23 december 2007 was a celebration and an event for the citizens of these countries. i know this because i am from poland - a country that has benefited from this benefit and that values open borders very much, as the last of the discriminatory circumstances that separated us from the member states of the old european union has disappeared. there is also a frontex agency in my country. i know that commissioner barrot has been to poland, has held talks with frontex and has also visited the external border of the union, for which poland is responsible for sealing. i know that in practice there are no major problems with the guarding and sealing of this border. but we have a problem with technical issues, the solution of which is becoming a political problem, as my colleague martine roure said, and i agree with her. so if there are technical problems, if there are problems, then i think it is the responsibility of every institution of the european union to turn to this body that has been working on the implementation of sis ii for so long. it is a pity that this has not been done and that transparency in this matter has been somehow enforced. i believe that the european parliament cannot accept that any action is taken outside it, that it is left out of the solution of problems which are important to the citizens, especially in the field of security. one last, slightly off-putting point. if there were problems, if hewlett-packard was not very good at solving technical problems, then we have excellent specialists in poland, young people who are great, world-renowned computer scientists. i think they could be useful and do it much cheaper, faster and better.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten and mr swoboda and mr meijer on the very well prepared resolutions. as regards turkey, the picture of our relations as outlined in this document is not optimistic, but it is certainly true. i am very pleased that the resolution has supported our expectations in terms of religious freedom for christian communities in turkey, the right to teach, the training of clergy and, finally, the protection of the property of these communities. as in other areas, we are faced with continuing and increasingly irritating delays on the part of turkey. turkey, regardless of the accession process, is a very promising, important partner for europe in the fields of security and energy. the efforts of prime minister erdogan's government and president gulen to improve relations with their neighbors have been the most important thread of turkish politics in recent times. it's a pity that they were undermined by aggressive actions against israel. the development of strategic cooperation between the union and turkey, which is a matter for today, is also being attempted to link to a process of negotiations whose momentum is declining for objective reasons. that's how i take the turkish statements about nabukko. we need a more pragmatic approach here. the temptation to blackmail is a bad advisor. as regards croatia, we should do everything to maintain the pace of the accession process, with croatia's accession to the union in 2009. stabilization of the region is still fragile. neither border nor property disputes can become additional conditions for balkan enlargement. in the name of stabilizing the region through integration, we should include croatia as soon as possible, followed by serbia, macedonia, montenegro, and perhaps kosovo and albania.
mr. chairman, please! for the third year in a row, i am the contractual rapporteur of the socialist group for the report assessing the preparation of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i have to say that the situation with macedonia is similar to the situation in ancient greek tragedy. in fact, the goodwill of all parties is universally declared, but nothing is shown. i was certain three years ago that at the end of this parliament's term we would be able to talk about a success in macedonia's negotiations on the way to the european union. that's not what happened. the main problem is the name issue, which, although a bilateral issue independent of the copenhagen criteria, affects the political situation on the way to macedonia's negotiations with the european union. we have the will of greece, we have the will of macedonia itself, but we have not been able to reach an agreement on this issue for several years. i can only express the hope, as the contractual rapporteur for this report of the socialist group, that this issue will be resolved in the interests of the european union, macedonia and greece. there is a problem of stabilizing political institutions in macedonia. we see it very clearly. we also see very clearly the political will of the public, the authorities, the political groups in this country, which is moving towards the european union. the council should decide to open accession negotiations before the end of 2009, subject to full implementation of the key priorities of the agreements. the next elections in macedonia - presidential and local elections - are very important in this respect. we will be monitoring them very closely in the european parliament.
madam president! negotiations with turkey on accession to the union are still ongoing, although they should have been concluded long ago. the turkish government has not presented a coherent and comprehensive programme of political reform. turkey did not resume work on a new secular constitution, an important element of which was to be the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms that the turkish government was to guarantee. discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities continues. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of corruption in the judiciary in turkey. freedom of speech and press is still not protected in turkey, but is even violated. domestic violence and forced marriages are rampant. turkey's opposition to strategic cooperation between the union and nato is a blatant act to the detriment of the community. turkey also does not recognise the independence of one of the members of the european union, cyprus, and this is a scandal. turkey is an anti-democratic country, a human rights violator, guided by a world of values that are alien to us. it is in europe's interest that turkey should not become a member of the union.
in writing. the past year has seen significant progress and increased efforts by croatia in its accession negotiations. negotiations for eu membership are well under way, but the country must focus on further reforms in areas such as administration, justice, economy, fight against corruption and organised crime, respect and protection of minorities, prosecution of war crimes. further efforts are needed to fully transpose the acquis communautaire and to implement it effectively. in addition, it is of the utmost importance to improve croatia's neighbourly relations, in particular with slovenia, and to find a final solution to the border issue with other neighbouring countries. croatia should also take into account the objectives currently set by the european union in the field of the climate and renewable energy package in its development policy. further progress by croatia in the accession negotiations depends in particular on the implementation of the necessary political, economic, legislative and administrative reforms. in this context, it should be recalled that the roadmap indicated by the commission is a very useful and helpful tool that supports the country in finalising the negotiations in the individual chapters. i hope to reach their final stage, even this year.
madam president! the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has made a significant contribution to the reconciliation process in the western balkans, contributing to the restoration and maintenance of peace in the region. it also helped to lay the foundation for a new global standard of conflict resolution after the war. however, it must be stressed that it is essential to support the development of the capacity of the national judiciary in the balkans so that local courts can continue the work begun by the court. improving cooperation between the courts and the prosecution in the western balkans is another important challenge, especially in cases involving extradition and mutual legal assistance. there is also an obvious need to put in place mechanisms to ensure that the functions of the court after its abolition and the legacy of the court will strengthen the rule of law. finally, i would like to call on the western balkan countries, the eu countries, to support the work of ngos and other institutions that help victims, promote dialogue and understanding between ethnic groups and support the quest for reconciliation in the balkans.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, in conclusion, i would like briefly to reiterate our full support for the ongoing work of the icty as an important part of the healing and reconciliation process in the western balkans, now and in the future. let me just mention that we will be having meetings with the chief prosecutor, serge brammertz, in prague tomorrow. i agree that the tribunal should be in a position to carry out its mandate, complete the ongoing trials and open new ones against the two indictees still at large. i also agree that the legacy of the tribunal has to be preserved by strengthening the local capacity to deal with the outstanding cases. after all, these are the cases which concern the western balkan countries and for which they themselves eventually need to take responsibility.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank you for a very concise but important debate and congratulate mrs neyts-uyttebroeck on her report and initiative. the icty is indeed an expression of european values of justice and the rule of law, and therefore this debate is so important. it is also an essential element of our enlargement policy in the western balkans. on dates, i can only agree with the icty itself – that the dates in the tribunal’s completion strategy are target dates only and not absolute deadlines, as correctly stated in mrs neyts-uyttebroeck’s report. for the commission, the crucial issue is retaining the support of the international community for the completion of the tribunal’s existing mandate so as to ensure that there will be no impunity for war crimes in the future.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the work of the court in the hague deserves the continued support of the european union, mainly because of the creation of the basis for a new standard of conflict resolution, as well as its significant contribution to the reconciliation process in the western balkans. in the light of the un resolutions calling for the closure of the icc, i agree with the rapporteur that the possibility of extending the mandate of the institution should be explored. there is a need for further work by the court, not least because many criminals are still at large and a significant number of cases still require thorough examination. i also believe that it is crucial to create a clear mechanism for the functioning of the judiciary in the balkans, which will take over the original functions of the court after its eventual dissolution. i also call on the member states to support the work of ngos and other institutions that help victims, promote dialogue and understanding between ethnic groups and support the search for reconciliation.
madam president! health care workers are in short supply worldwide. but the most painful part of it is in your own backyard. the lack of specialised medical care, lack of clinical experience in specific specialties and specific medical services leads to seeking medical care in other countries. that is why it is so important to regulate cross-border healthcare. the patient has the right to know what standard of care is offered in a particular facility, how the treatment or rehabilitation will be financed, how much the healthcare system in the patient's country will pay for the treatment or rehabilitation, and how much the patient will pay. a directive on this is necessary. another issue is the upgrading of the skills of medical staff, which should be facilitated by mobility linked to language courses. i welcome the proposal to set up a health staff observatory. commissioner, thank you for the green book.
madam president! we are very concerned that this is the health care system that is most functional. the green paper therefore calls for the upgrading of the skills of medical staff and the provision of comfortable and decent working conditions for the medical service. we can't let the doctors stay on duty too long. i would also like to draw attention to the issue of health promotion. promoting healthy lifestyles is one way to help prevent this. it can lead to the prevention of all kinds of diseases and ailments. therefore, the principle that prevention is better than cure should be applied to all kinds of health-promoting activities and campaigns. and let's remember that investing in any kind of innovative treatment, clinical equipment, or new technology is an investment in ourselves.
madam president! for most of us, free access to water is a given. we use a lot of water every day. it is worth noting, however, that according to estimates by the world health organization, one sixth of the earth's population - more than a billion people - do not have access to basic, minimum standards of clean water. this means that in the 21st century, millions of people suffer from thirst and die from diseases caused by drinking contaminated water. i was recently in the largest city in africa, lagos, where only one percent of the population has access to running water. these kinds of data are frightening, but they're not making the front pages of the newspapers, they're not making the mainstream media pay attention to them, and they're not making them the subject of debates and controversies, like aids, malaria, global warming. this is probably because only 2 percent of europeans suffer from it, but 27 percent of africans do. in africa alone, it is estimated that more people die each year from diseases caused by drinking contaminated water than from aids and malaria combined. so it's fair to say that the lack of access to drinking water doesn't kill in a media-specific, spectacular way, and doesn't generate as much publicity as disasters like earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, or armed conflicts. but the fact is, as mr ribeiro e castro said, that on average, 6,000 children die every day from water-related diseases. that means a child dies every 15 seconds. can you imagine the world's reaction, the response, the level of mobilization and determination if this were happening in europe, and not in sub-saharan africa or asia? so access to water is not just a problem for developing countries, it's a problem for developed countries as well. universal access to drinking water is a prerequisite for the development of countries and the effective fight against poverty. without meeting this need, there is no way to improve health care or education. without water for agriculture or simple industry, entire societies are condemned to struggle for daily existence, and the result of this struggle is armed conflict, migration, destabilization, which is to say, development blockades and the widening of development disparities. the forum we're talking about will also include politicians and will discuss current affairs. one of the current issues is the situation in darfur, where president bashir is kicking out organizations that, among other things, are working to ensure that the people of darfur have access to water. so this will be an opportunity to persuade president bashir, among others, to allow international organizations to provide water to the people of darfur.
madam president! the fifth world water forum is an event that should become an opportunity to work on public water management systems that are effective, transparent, regulated and sustainable to meet the needs of society. the special role and tasks here are those of local authorities. in addition, the food crisis has revealed the need to develop new techniques, such as irrigation of agricultural areas. at the same time, in agriculture, we should make sure that we use natural fertilizers or fertilizers that will quickly decompose in the soil and not leach into groundwater. finally, how does the commission intend to implement the european parliament's wishes, as expressed in its resolution of 15 march on the fourth world water forum, concerning the promotion and financing of water management in a spirit of solidarity? water is the most important challenge facing the world and europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very glad to have this opportunity for a timely debate on the eastern partnership. it is one of the flagships of the european union’s foreign policy, and its strategic rationale is clear: more security, more stability and more prosperity in our eastern neighbourhood. the conflict in georgia and also the gas crisis in ukraine are just two examples of the periodic crises and the instability affecting this region. these have had a direct impact on the union and its citizens. to these two crises we now have to add the financial crisis, which hits our eastern neighbourhood particularly hard. while each crisis requires its own immediate response, we also have to provide medium- and long-term action to prevent new problems from arising and, in addition to these immediate issues, our eastern neighbours all want stronger links with the european union, albeit to varying degrees. they also need reinforced help to consolidate their democratic institutions, statehood and rule of law. the european union can and must respond to these challenges and the eastern partnership is, so to say, our political answer. increasing our support for reforms and helping our partners to align with the eu acquis will help stabilise our eastern neighbours. on 3 december 2008 the commission put forward an ambitious communication on the eastern partnership on my initiative. it built on prior ideas by our czech, polish and swedish friends, and it built on many of the european parliament’s suggestions, including deep free trade agreements, more mobility of people and greater funding. as part of the eastern partnership, we also proposed upgrading our political relationships through association agreements with each partner – but only once they have fulfilled the relevant political reform criteria. we proposed measures to enhance cooperation on energy security and, importantly, increase support for economic and also social development to address the imbalances within countries that are so often a destabilising force. we also recommended setting up a multilateral framework for the eastern partnership with four thematic cooperation platforms: firstly, democracy and governance stability; secondly, economic integration and convergence with eu policies; thirdly, energy security and, fourthly, contacts between people. we suggested making the european parliament’s euronest initiative an integral part of the eastern partnership and setting up an eastern partnership parliamentary troika for the european parliament, the osce and the council of europe. to implement all these proposals and step up support for internal reforms, the commission asked for eur 350 million additional funds over four years. that is only 3.1% of the total enpi envelope and, for example, much less than the additional allocations to the occupied palestinian territories in 2007 to 2009 alone. in short, this is not an excessive sum: it is a necessary investment in our long-term security. i know some of you would like to do even more for our eastern partners. you have said that the commission proposals do not go far enough or fast enough, particularly for the mobility of people, but other voices have said the opposite. we need to strike the right balance, therefore, between ambition and realism, and we need to move fast. i am glad that we all share the goal of bringing our eastern partners gradually closer to the union and also tackling the threats to their stability. the eastern partnership is a key tool to accomplish that. i hope that today’s debate sends a strong signal to the 27 member states in the run-up to next week’s european council and in preparation for the eastern partnership summit on 7 may 2009. the eastern partnership goes to the very heart of the challenges we face today. it is in the eu’s direct strategic interest: a new security crisis in our eastern neighbourhood would have implications not only for our neighbours but also for the whole eu and its citizens. i am, therefore, very grateful for the support of this parliament, and i look forward to working with you on your contribution and in the implementation.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the announcement of the eastern partnership has given new hope to our european neighbours. if we cool it down again, we'll limit our impact on the east in all areas. we will push our neighboring country into the russian zone of destabilization and authoritarianism. i urge caution with regard to belarus. this country is making a promise of democracy that is still unfulfilled. at the same time, he deported catholic priests from belsat tv, refused to register the office in minsk, and opposition youth were conscripted into the army. attempts to deprive the eastern partnership of money under the pretext of the crisis and to slow down free trade agreements and visa-free travel are a recipe for europe's failure in this part of the world. please don't make a big deal out of moscow's politics then. the instruments are in our hands today. if the eastern partnership is just a new packaging for old content, then let us not be surprised by the failures in the east.
mr president, i would firstly like to welcome the commission initiative, which is very well prepared. secondly, it is not about the eastern policy of the union, it is about a new formula, so the question should be raised of what is the value added. i would say that, besides what we have been trying to do, whether successfully or not so far, we are now trying to have not only friends around us, but also friends who are friends amongst themselves. that is key for the stability and security of the european union. in this multilateral dimension i see the value added of this new project. i hope it will be approved in march by the euroepan council. we know that it is the priority of the czech presidency – although we do not have the pleasure of seeing the czech minister in the chamber. association agreements are the key element of this and should be similar but, at the same time, differentiated according to the possibilities and performance of every one of the six parties in this multilateral framework. energy security, as was said, is a key issue. it is of key interest to us and to the six countries to be linked by this energy security access. there were questions during the debate on whether to have third countries involved. i think the approach whereby we have turkey and russia linked on a case-by-case basis is the correct approach. belarus should obviously be invited, but on a very conditional principle, where we should fix the minimum thresholds on fundamental values. we are very happy that the commissioner has noted and taken into account that the parliamentary assembly of the eastern neighbourhood, euronest – invented by this house – will be an integral part of the project. regarding funding, properly addressed, it will have to be in the next financial perspective. so far i hope that this 600 will be fine, but i have one important remark in order to eliminate all the controversies. it should not be done to the detriment or at the expense of the southern neighbourhood. the southern and eastern neighbourhoods should be both synergetic and symmetric in this context.
mr. chairman, please! the eastern partnership is a comprehensive set of proposals that should strengthen our eastern neighbours on their path to democratic transformation. each of these countries has an alternative: the russian model or the european model. surely the community has more to offer them. the eastern partnership is not a quest for subordination or a zone of influence, but an arrangement that will bring tangible benefits to both sides. partner countries will be given the opportunity and support to develop their economic and social development. the community will have greater security, both in terms of energy and political security. efforts should be made to facilitate visa regimes. if we make it easier for eastern partnership citizens to come to the community, they will see how much cooperation with the union can benefit them. the intensification of contacts between citizens, especially young people, will also undoubtedly contribute to the rapprochement between the partner countries and the union. we should enable young people to learn, to travel, we should promote scientific and cultural exchanges. a conscious, educated youth is the future of our continent.
mr president, catch-the-eye is a good opportunity for polemics. i disagree with my colleague mr severin. he would admit a droit de regard in zones of influence for russia. if we want stability on our eastern frontiers we need more democracy and more market economy. russia is less democratic and less a market economy than those neighbours, so no joint policy will bring us closer to that goal. symmetry with russia in this policy will not provide us with more progress in the region. we were not invited by russia when the cis was constructed, and a mix of our and russia’s policies would be totally counterproductive.
in writing. – in a time of economic crisis, one could ask the question: should europe focus on looking after its own rather than assisting its eastern neighbours? europe should decidedly continue supporting them. firstly, economic instability in the eastern neighbourhood, mostly notably in ukraine, which is suffering major problems, poses a threat to security in europe. conversely, a stabilised ukrainian economy, increasingly integrated with the eu, is an enormous potential market for eu member states. secondly, bringing our eastern neighbours into the european family, even if the prospect of actual membership of the eu is probably still a not a realistic option in the immediate future, is a long-term project. dealing with the current crisis is something we will have hopefully resolved in the next year to 18 months. the eastern partnership is a project for many years. thirdly, even if the leaders of some of our eastern neighbours, such as the belarusian president, and, to a lesser degree, bickering leaders in the ukraine, may discourage us from tightening these ties, we must remember that our eastern neighbours are more than their current leaders and, in the light of their internal political problems, they need our support, example and encouragement.
in writing. it is welcome that the european union is opening up new areas in its relations with its eastern neighbours. the adoption by the ec in december 2008 of a polish-swedish proposal to strengthen the community's cooperation with the six eastern neighbours is hopeful. i hope that this project will not be a wish on paper, but that it can be implemented for ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and belarus. the eastern partnership envisages a significant increase in political cooperation, including new types of association agreements, far-reaching integration with the eu economy, simplified travel within the eu for citizens of the eastern partnership countries (provided security requirements are met), arrangements to improve energy security for all stakeholders, and increased financial assistance. it is important to be aware that the eastern partnership requires commitment from both the union and the countries involved. this effort can bring significant political and economic benefits. this will lead to an increase in trust and, consequently, stability and security for all. particular hopes can be placed on the proposed main framework of the partnership, and in particular on the establishment of four policy platforms: democracy, good governance and stability; economic integration and convergence with eu policies; energy security; people-to-people contacts. naturally, there are many doubts, such as the real intentions of the belarusian authorities, as well as the question of relations with russia.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that this morning we were discussing the european union's partnership with countries such as brazil and mexico. we also discussed the eastern partnership this morning. i would like to stress, with the greatest emphasis, to mrs ferrero-waldner that when we talk about the union's external affairs, external affairs, such as brazil and mexico, when we talk about relations with north african countries, for example, we are in a sense talking about the management of sicily. but when we talk about relations with the east, we are talking about fundamental issues for the union. similarly, when we talk about the partnership and turkey's future membership, these are fundamental issues. when we talk about relations with belarus, with ukraine, with russia in the context of gas, in the context of georgia, we are talking about matters which concern the foundations of the union and which could be a serious crisis for the union.
mr. chairman, please! brazil's role on the global and regional stage is growing every year, making it one of the european union's most important and key partners. historical, cultural and economic links should form the basis of the union-brazil strategic partnership. the key issues around which political dialogue should focus should be the promotion of common strategies to address global challenges, including security, human rights, the financial crisis and, perhaps most importantly, the fight against poverty. diversification of regional conflict prevention efforts in south america should also be pursued. and what should be our priority is to strengthen bilateral cooperation in trade and cooperation in the protection of brazilian forests, which are the lungs of the world. the strategic partnership should allow for the creation of a permanent platform for dialogue between the union and brazil.
madam president! yesterday at a school in winnenden in southern germany, a young maniac named tim kretschner shot dead 15 people, most of them children. one of the teachers was killed by covering a student with her own body. i would ask the president to call a minute's silence before the vote to commemorate the victims of this tragedy.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased that this discussion is taking place today, on an issue which has preoccupied many of us for a long time and especially since the sad events a year ago in tibet. therefore i think that it is very good that we are having this open discussion to again see what can be done. before i come to the many issues you raised in the tabled joint resolution, let me also have a quick word on our bilateral relations with china. the eu policy vis-à-vis china is one of engagement. our strategic partnership is strong, and this permits us to tackle all issues, including the most sensitive ones. we have constructed an impressive framework of high-level interaction where we regularly address all the global changes that our citizens are facing, without neglecting the issues where we may disagree. tibet is one of them. let me be very clear – we do not see eye to eye with china on tibet, and we still have a very real and legitimate concern about the human rights situation in tibet, as you have both just outlined; about the fact that tibet has remained largely closed for the international media, for diplomats and for humanitarian organisations for almost a year now; and about the stalemate in talks between the representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese authorities, despite the three rounds of talks last year. these issues were also at the top of the agenda for several eu leaders in bilateral meetings held with the chinese leadership last year. we have endeavoured to find common understanding with china on this delicate subject, and we have been very clear whenever we have addressed the situation in tibet with them. let me again mention the eu’s position, which does not leave any room for misinterpretation. firstly, we support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of china, including tibet. secondly, we have always supported a peaceful reconciliation through dialogue between the chinese authorities and the dalai lama’s representatives. i remember, when i went there with the commission, president barroso and other colleagues, i had specific dialogues with many of my interlocutors on this issue. we have always maintained that there should be a reconciliation dialogue and that the dialogue should go on. this dialogue has to be constructive and substantive, and of course we therefore regret that, up to now, this dialogue has not brought really substantive results. we have always said that the dialogues should address the core issues, such as the preservation of tibet’s unique culture, religion and traditions as well as the need to achieve a system of meaningful autonomy for tibet within a chinese constitution. we have always said that this dialogue should address the participation of all tibetans in decision-making. therefore we would welcome it if these issues were to be addressed in china’s future national human rights action plan. for us, tibet is a human rights issue and has therefore invariably been approached as such. we have also consistently passed this message to our chinese counterparts and listened very carefully to their views. we have made every effort to understand the position in a spirit of mutual respect, but human rights are universal, and the situation in tibet is therefore – rightly – of international legitimate concern to the whole international community, particularly the european union. this fact is, of course, emphasised by the existence of instruments of international law for the protection of human rights over half a century. in your resolution you stipulate the future of a sino-tibetan dialogue. as you all know, at the last round of talks, following the request of the chinese government, the tibetan side submitted a memorandum on genuine autonomy for the future of tibet. in my opinion the paper contains some elements that could provide the basis for future talks. i am thinking of a paragraph on culture, education and religion. i am also encouraged by the fact that, for the first time in a written document, the tibetan side has expressed its firm commitment not to seek separation or independence. i think this is important in order to bring this dialogue further. i am also pleased that the dalai reaffirmed before this house last december his devotion to the middle-way approach and to dialogue as the only means for achieving a mutually acceptable and lasting solution. let me conclude by sharing with you a personal conviction. throughout my political and personal career, i have always strongly believed that, through engagement and dialogue, even the most difficult issues can be addressed and hopefully, when the time is right, can also be solved. therefore i wish to appeal to china and to the dalai lama’s representative to resume this dialogue at the earliest possible opportunity with an open spirit and a view to achieving a durable solution in tibet. i can guarantee, from our side, our wholehearted support for such a process. this is our position and this is the position that we bring to the chinese side.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. over the past few decades, democratic countries have repeatedly called for human rights to be respected in non-democratic countries. these efforts have only been successful if states and international organisations have been consistent in their actions and demands. unfortunately, the tibetan issue, and more broadly, human rights in china, have often been pushed to the sidelines in favor of trade relations. if it were not for the beijing olympics and the strong stance of many civil society and non-governmental organizations, the world would still know very little about the situation in tibet. our role, the role of the european parliament, is to ensure that such actions by the chinese authorities, such as the 'strong strike' campaign launched some time ago, are met with a sharp and decisive response from democratic countries. but we can only achieve this if we consistently and firmly condemn all human rights violations by the chinese communist authorities. it is worth recalling that in its resolution of 6 july 2000, the european parliament called on the member states to recognise the tibetan emigration authorities if an agreement between the chinese authorities and the dalai lama's administration was not reached within three years. as we know, pakin still refuses to talk to the undisputed leader of the tibetan people. let's not forget xi panchenlam, the youngest political prisoner held by the chinese for 14 years. he's 20 this year. i would therefore like to call on parliament once again to follow up and take its declarations seriously. unless we show that we are not throwing our words to the wind, it will be difficult for us to expect others to keep their promises and commitments.
madam president! when we talk today about the plight of the persecuted tibetans, we must realize that only political pressure from the entire international community can lead to an improvement in the plight of the tibetans. i must therefore emphasize that all the efforts made by mrs ferrero-waldner and by those who influence world politics can have a positive effect. i must also say that it was with great regret that i heard a speech by a representative of the socialists, who justified the chinese crimes by building a railway to tibet. it reminds me of a time in europe when the construction of concentration camps was justified by the construction of efficient highways. we cannot allow railroads and highways to be built on the pain and suffering of persecuted people.
madam president! in the early 1950s, the chinese government forced tibetan representatives to sign an agreement guaranteeing tibet a far-reaching autonomy. none of these commitments were fulfilled. as a result of public pressure and fears of a boycott of the olympics, the chinese government held talks with representatives of the dalai lama, but they were embarrassingly low-level talks, and moreover, they were a dialogue that resembled the dialogue between two television personalities who were drawn to different programs. we don't want it to be a dialogue, we want it to be negotiations, negotiations with the representatives of the dalai lama based on the memorandum that was presented. if the chinese government thinks that this memorandum is a bad basis, let them say exactly why, and not hide behind a blanket statement that this is just a memorandum proposing tibetan independence, which is absolutely not true.
member of the commission. − madam president, this debate has briefly but clearly shown once again our great concern at the situation in tibet. the interventions have underlined that this concern remains as real and legitimate 50 years after the tibetan uprising of 10 march 1959. moreover, i think our discussion has also underlined the necessity for both parties to resume dialogue promptly. i say ‘dialogue’ because dialogue is always the first important step before moving on to negotiations. it is also the best way to avoid frustration and violence among young tibetans. i think this is a very resonant reason. that is why a more substantial dialogue is in the interests of both sides. the dalai lama is a respected religious leader and, amongst other things, a nobel peace prize laureate. while individual european leaders have met with him in various, but usually religious, contexts, meetings in a political context are not our policy. having said that, we have frequent exchanges with his envoys, especially on progress with the dialogue process, and this is how we will continue.
in writing. for 50 years, tibetans who had to flee tibet have been demanding respect for their basic rights. i am convinced that the recognition of rights and the resumption of dialogue with the tibetans is in china's well-understood interest. in the modern world, the image of individual countries is an important element of their functioning in a globalised economy and international cooperation. china refusing to talk to the representatives of the dalai lama, china rejecting the very moderate demands of the tibetans, is damaging its own image. and yet, the talks that would be about the rights that are in line with the chinese constitution do not carry any serious risks. on the contrary, great states and great nations should be generous. that might indicate their size. dialogue with the tibetans is a chance for china to show a good, positive face. solidarity with tibet and tibetans is not anti-chinese action. it is an expression of concern for human rights, freedom of religion and language, cultural diversity and the right to preserve national identity and autonomy. so we don't interfere in china's internal affairs, but we try to defend the standards and values that are important to us everywhere - in europe, in asia, all over the world. china is not singled out in any way. we stand up for the rights of small nations even when it's inconvenient and uncomfortable. because we believe this is the right way.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? is there a link between a scientific career and mobility? to some extent, yes; it can be argued that mobility, especially for young researchers, can have a major impact on their future achievements. it gives them access to new information and allows them to break free from the constraints of their environment. but that's not all. a scientific career begins at an early age, in secondary school, when young people are consolidating their general knowledge, especially in the natural and social sciences. the next stage is the first, second and doctoral degrees. this is, i say this from my own experience, the basic stage of a young person's scientific career, when mobility, easy access to research workshops and an interesting, promising topic pursued under the guidance of eminent scientists is more important to these people than their future retirement. therefore, the creation of the right conditions, e.g. in the european institute of technology and the european research infrastructure, for conducting such studies on the basis of generally available scholarships for doctoral students from the eu and third countries, and their widespread publicity is the most important step in the recruitment of scientific staff. whether young people, as phds, will power industry or scientific institutions, whether they will return to their countries or go further, will depend on the conditions created for them to stabilise their families and careers.
in writing. - i appreciate all the efforts made, both by croatia itself and the european union, to deepen existing relations. i encourage further cooperation and joint efforts to resolve existing problems. the croatian authorities are keen to resolve the existing problems, both internal and bilateral. in the spirit of european solidarity, without distinctions or barriers, we should help them to do so.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on aid for the development of health services in sub-saharan africa. this part of africa cannot develop without a substantial improvement in the health of its people. the list of health risks in this region of the world is exceptionally long and well known, and the reality of these risks is best confirmed by the expected life expectancy of the inhabitants. often, life expectancy in individual countries is close to that of medieval europe. it's painful, it's sad, it's frustrating, but it should also be a way to mobilize the developed and rich countries to help more intensively and more effectively. it's worth getting involved in projects that save lives. there's nothing more humanistic and european at the same time. let us give life to those whose existence is threatened. let's just do the background or whatever.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? on 2 march this year, the president of guinea-bissau, joao bernardo vieira, was killed in an assassination attempt by soldiers affiliated with the army's commander-in-chief. the day before, general batista tagme na wai, the army's commander-in-chief, died of his injuries. both deaths are linked to years of political conflict that has led to drama and destabilization in the country. although the november 2008 elections were peaceful, the first coup took place shortly afterwards. the president survived that assassination attempt. guinea-bissau, a former portuguese colony, is one of the poorest countries in the world. there's also a cocaine smuggling route through the country. we condemn attempts to resolve the conflict through coups d'état, and call for presidential elections to be held in guinea-bissau within two months, in accordance with democratic standards, and for constitutional order to be restored.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in poor african countries, one of which is guinea-bissau, it is very easy to destabilize the situation and cause tragic consequences. such an attempt is the assassination of president joao vieira and the head of the armed forces, general tagme na waie, in march 2009, presumably by members of the drug mafia. the inefficiency of the security services in this country has resulted in the impunity of these and other murders. all necessary assistance should be given to the authorities of that country, as the resolution says. on the other hand, to prevent such cases, a ruthless war must be waged against the drug trade, which is destabilizing many poor countries in africa, asia and south america, fuelling terrorism and destroying the health of millions of people worldwide through addiction. if we can't solve this problem, we're going to have to pay the cost of our helplessness.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the philippines is a country with a rich but uninteresting history, conquered by the spanish in 1521 after suppressing strong resistance from the local population. after the rebellion against them in 1916, the united states took control of the philippines. the country gained full independence after a temporary occupation by the japanese in 1946 and was ruled dictatorially for many years by president marcos. in 1983, the leader of the democratic opposition, aquino, was assassinated. the country is ruled by the moro muslim liberation front and a communist guerrilla. abu sayyaf's fighters are trying to take the southern part of the islands from the philippines. the country is plagued by corruption. people are dying en masse, the death penalty is widely used, people are being quietly murdered who are inconvenient for certain groups. attempts to introduce and respect human rights, the principles of democracy, are met with great resistance in this country. the country's economic development and its membership of the association of southeast asian nations is positive. the resolution i support is the european union's contribution to concrete action to resolve internal conflicts and restore the rule of law.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. for decades, there has been conflict between the philippine government and the moro islamic liberation front of mindanao. the conflict has been accompanied by attacks by the abu sayyaf terrorist organization, kidnappings and murders. a ferry bombing in manila bay in 2004 killed 116 people. according to the manila authorities, abu sayyaf is working with al-qaeda. the kidnappings are still going on. peace talks broke down last august, and the separatist conflict has claimed more than 120,000 lives. human rights are being violated everywhere. we call on all parties to the conflict to negotiate an agreement on economic, social and political issues. we support all efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? the brutal ethnic cleansing in darfur has led to the deaths of some 300,000 people, and the displacement of 2.5 million. four million seven hundred thousand people are in need of humanitarian aid. several thousand have taken refuge in chad, where the polish army is also participating in the peacekeeping mission. the population has been affected by one of the world's greatest humanitarian disasters. representatives of human rights and humanitarian organisations, such as polish humanitarian action and doctors without borders, have been expelled from darfur. the international criminal court in the hague has indicted sudanese president omar al-bashir for war crimes against humanity and has issued an arrest warrant for him. he is accused of directing extermination, murder, displacement, tolerating torture and rape. we fully support the decision of the international criminal court. we demand that humanitarian organisations be allowed to provide aid to the people of darfur.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have here a letter from 28 women from darfur who managed to escape the conflict zone, addressed to the african union and the arab league. in a letter dated 4 march this year, darfur women support the issuance of an arrest warrant for sudanese leader omar al-bashir by the international criminal court. for the first time in the court's seven-year history, a warrant has been issued for the arrest of a sitting head of state. in their letter, the women of darfur describe the harrowing scenes of violence and rape, everyday life in a province where rape is deliberately used as a weapon to cause suffering and stigmatize women, to break up the community and demoralize the entire community. omar al-baszir responded to the arrest warrant and international letter of injunction by expelling 13 foreign charities from sudan. this means that over a million people in refugee camps will be deprived of basic health care, food and water in the coming weeks. the lack of clean water, which could be felt in the coming days, will spread infectious diseases, especially in west darfur. according to eyewitnesses, there is diarrhea in the zam-zam camp, and encephalitis in the kalma camp. the first victims of the sudanese government's decision will be children. omar al-bashir's decision to expel charities from the country will contribute to further crimes in darfur. the european parliament resolution calls on the un and the international criminal court to examine whether the sudanese leader's latest decision is a war crime under international law. omar al-bashir's system of government fails to ensure the right to protection of its citizens and must be held accountable to the international community for violating this right.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. darfur is experiencing one of the greatest human tragedies in the modern world. it was authored by sudanese president omar hassan al baszir. nearly five million people are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance, while the sudanese government has decided to expel 13 leading aid ngos from darfur. the spread of disease after cutting off medical and food aid will cause genocide on a grand scale in the 21st century. the resolution i support is too mild, because in that case the african union and the un should be obliged to intervene militarily to stop the genocide.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the conflict in sudan, which has lasted for more than 50 years, has not only racial and religious but also economic backgrounds and has already claimed more than 3 million victims, forcing more than 4.7 million people from the region to emigrate. despite attempts at peace and un peacekeeping missions, there has been an escalation of fighting between arab and non-arab residents in darfur in recent months. the latest development in the world's largest humanitarian crisis, which has sparked another debate in the european parliament, is the decision by the sudanese government, headed by president al-bashir, to order the 13 humanitarian organisations that are providing much-needed aid: food, medicine and medical care, to leave the country. the images and videos from darfur that are moving viewers around the world will in no way reflect the drama of the people living in the area, who are trying to emigrate to nearby chad, as well as to other countries and continents, egypt, israel, the usa, canada and europe. but human rights violations, including mass rape, kidnapping, displacement, famine, epidemics, torture, are enabled not only by a president accused of war crimes, but by great powers and their leaders who pass on responsibility for delivering weapons or doing business. even the intervention of the icc prosecutor, who was going to indict and prosecute the sudanese president with a wanted list, is meant to be a celebration of the 10th anniversary of the icc, which some say could be a disaster for darfur and the end of the un mission. this is not the first time we have protested and expressed outrage at human rights violations in the region, but the previous comprehensive resolution of the european parliament calling on international actors to sanction and block economic activities fuelling the conflict has not produced results. the apparent aim of the continuing conflict is to unite the people of darfur before the 2011 referendum on sudanese secession.
madam president! the war in darfur, by various accounts, has claimed over 200,000 lives. it is often called the greatest humanitarian disaster in human history and has been compared to the 1994 rwandan genocide. according to the united nations, nearly five million people in the country need urgent assistance. the international criminal court has issued an arrest warrant for president-elect omar hassan al-bashir for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity. the sudanese government responded by expelling the 13 largest ngos involved in the largest humanitarian effort in human history. this decision could have catastrophic consequences for the people of darfur, depriving them of much-needed medical care. the uncontrolled spread of infectious diseases can lead to mass epidemics, contributing to the increase in mortality of the population, especially children, who, deprived of medical and food supplies, will lose any chance of survival in these extremely difficult conditions. in view of the situation, the decision of the government of sudan to expel ngos should be strongly condemned and its annulment should be requested. at the same time, the commission and the council should be required to engage with the african union and the arab league and china in order to convince the government of sudan of the potentially disastrous effects of its actions. in addition, the work of the international criminal court and its unquestioned role in promoting international justice and humanitarian law and in efforts to eradicate the culture of impunity should be strongly supported. in this context, it is necessary to make the sudanese who cooperate with president al-bashir aware of the inevitability of punishment for war crimes and crimes against humanity, and to compel the sudanese government itself to stop discriminating against human rights defenders who supported the court's decision to arrest al-bashir. these actions should be taken as soon as possible in order to prevent the next humanitarian catastrophe that inevitably threatens darfur.
madam president! we are witnessing a major event in international politics. the sudanese president, who has been issued an arrest warrant, is taking revenge on the international community and expelling non-political organizations that provide humanitarian aid, such as for the suffering darfur, from the country. the world opinion, of course, cannot leave without commenting that the president of sudan has banned the activities of non-governmental organizations, such as polish humanitarian action, which has been implementing water projects in darfur for five years to help sudanese. the fifth world water forum, which we discussed in this house yesterday, could be a good opportunity to react to the actions of the president of sudan. i hope that the issue of sudan's expulsion of ngos operating in darfur will be raised politically in istanbul. paradoxically, this forum will be discussing how to address the water shortage of a billion people in the world, at the same time that president baszir is removing organizations that are trying to solve this crucial problem for darfur. our response will be necessary.
madam president, the word 'yesterday' should not be there because the resolution must live longer than a day.
mr. chairman, please! the demographic decline in europe is a fact. it threatens the economic development of the european union countries through labour shortages, it threatens the financial viability of pension systems, it creates serious problems for health care systems in europe, and it creates serious problems for social welfare systems. meanwhile, our efforts to reverse negative demographic trends by promoting family development are not being understood by the european commission. in particular, the need to reduce vat on products for young children, including diapers, is being resisted. the idea of penalties for adopting such solutions by individual countries shows a lack of awareness of the risks or acts of bad faith. this is unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw particular attention to the extermination of the palestinian people by the israeli army, which is taking place before our very eyes. it is a subject we should not pass over lightly. with embarrassment, as reported by israeli media, i listen to accounts of soldiers who say they were ordered to shoot civilians, including elderly women. the newspaper haarec published a written order that one of the field commanders gave to his subordinates. he wrote in it that soldiers should shoot people who were helping wounded palestinians. and finally, the soldiers were taught contempt for palestinian life, as evidenced by the t-shirts worn by israeli soldiers, the macabre t-shirts that depict a pregnant arab woman with the words "one bullet, two killed". we must break the silence in our house on this issue. there are no better or worse nations. today, our help and support is needed by the palestinian people. we should rise to the occasion and take care of this.
the president-in-office of the council. - thank you, mr president, and thank you in particular to the members of the european parliament for a constructive and interesting debate. let me respond to two points from what has been said. the first is the question of flexibility, and i have heard from the speeches of members that there is a call for the necessary flexibility in the negotiation of those economic cooperation agreements. i would like to stress that the council is very much aware of flexibility in two important areas. firstly, flexibility, making the most of asymmetrical arrangements, timetables, safeguards in line with wto rules. i cannot therefore agree with the view, or the general condemnation, that 40 years of aid to developing countries is a disaster. i think the situation would have been much worse without the help of the european union and other countries. at the same time, i think that having rules that allow for this perceived flexibility allows each of these countries - and i trust the european commission and the commissioner - to be able to find a solution that suits their needs and their interests. and secondly, there is the flexibility that we offer in moving from those transitional provisions of the epas to those full regional agreements in order to promote regional cooperation. the second point i would like to make in the debate is the question of the development dimension of the epa agreements. i am convinced that the agreements are not conventional trade agreements, but that they have a really strong development dimension. the agreements establish long transitional measures of up to 25 years, and also contain derogations. up to 20% of goods originating in acp countries may be exempted from liberalisation. the agreements provide for monitoring and review, with the involvement of the parliament. their implementation will be supported by the aid for trade financial package. i personally see all this as evidence of the developmental nature of these agreements. at the same time, i want to say on behalf of the czech presidency and the council that we will be closely following the ongoing negotiations on the epas and i would like to express our support for the european commission and commissioner ashton for her efforts so far in fulfilling the mandate given to her by the council. during the czech presidency, we will address the issue of epas at the may meeting of the general affairs and external relations council in the format of development cooperation ministers. and if an agreement is reached between us and the acp partner ministers, this issue will also be on the agenda of the may joint meeting of the acp-eu council of ministers. during the czech presidency, the council will also be welcoming the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in prague in a few days' time, at the beginning of april, and i am sure that the epa agreements will be one of the main topics of the negotiations, a very important negotiation precisely because it is a parliamentary one. i look forward to your vote tomorrow. in my view, this is a key moment in the development of the epas. in many regions, as we have heard, negotiations are still ongoing, but in the caribbean area important and good results have already been achieved. and as for the ivory coast, we have reached an important milestone for the next step. in many countries, the european parliament's consent is expected, ending years of difficult negotiations, and i firmly believe that parliament will send the world the positive signal we so badly need at this time. i believe and i am convinced that even in the present critical situation, which has been discussed here several times, it is an instrument that will really help in the face of the great uncertainty that we all feel, and we all know that it will help the development of these countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, allow me just to refer to some of the comments that have been made. mr guardans cambó, mr hutchinson and ms hall, you all in different ways talked about the past and our need to do better. i agree with that. i may not completely agree with the analysis, but i do agree that this is an opportunity to look forward, and part of that is about looking forward to the involvement not only of this parliament but also of parliaments across the acp. of course, it is up to individual nations how they involve their own parliaments. we have to be very careful – and i know honourable members would want me to be – in not imposing what i think upon any other country. let me say to mrs kinnock, that i look forward to the meeting with the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). mr martin in particular, but others too, talked about the need to have our reviews and, again, i agree, particularly in this economic climate, it is absolutely essential that we monitor and review. i will be very interested to continue the dialogue with honourable members about how we engage parliament in that, but also your ideas on how we can make this monitoring and review really effective and make those countries that are working with us feel very positive in that direction. mr sturdy and mr martin, ‘most favoured nation’ is, as has been said, designed to capture in a sense those large countries that have not supported the process we have been involved in. it is not about damaging south-south trade or damaging in any way, shape or form the opportunities and the sovereignty of those countries that wish to open up trade. that is why we have a ceiling on the amount of world trade that a country must be involved in before this particular provision kicks in. i have to say we are always looking for any flexibility we might have within that too. concerning customs revenue: mr arif and mme jouye de grandmaison, until 2013 the edf covers this and we are interested in making sure that economic growth and fiscal change can also support nations so that they are not reliant upon this revenue solely, but actually find new ways of supporting their economies. whatever happens on bananas, the preferences will continue to be better for those countries than anywhere else. but we are very mindful of preference erosion and, as we explore agreements which we have waited for many years to try and sort out, we need to take that on board, and i intend to that. mr van hecke, ms mann and mrs kinnock: what one gets, the other gets. let me be absolutely clear: i am happy to write to anybody anywhere, but certainly to côte d’ivoire to say that the flexibilities that we have been in discussion with the southern african development community (sadc) will apply to them because there are one or two things only specific to that region that they would not want, but those that they wish to have they can have. i am very happy to put that in writing anywhere, any time to anyone. so please just tell me what you want me to do. mr ford and mr fjellner talked about the importance of trade generally and i agree completely with that analysis. i think mr fjellner said that more trade rather than less trade is what we need in this economic climate, and i completely agree with that. mr caspary, freedom to take on their own future to take into their own hands – i agree completely. and those countries that have developed economically without epas – well, india and china would be two examples, i suppose. mr kamall, too, echoed this theme that i think is very important, that we allow nations to develop and grow and allow them to do so by developing their economies and supporting them through development and trade linked together. mrs kinnock, the development link is very important, but the binding aid commitment is in the cotonou agreement – it is already there. what this is about, for us, is using epas to enable the preferences, the priorities on development to be established on a joint basis, which is extremely important. finally, i want to just do something i do not often get a chance to do, which is to pay tribute to the team who are working with me. our chief negotiator sits behind me. he has been doing all the work with sadc. my colleagues are here and i just wanted to make sure that you recognised that they are extraordinarily supportive and absolutely committed to the agenda i have spelled out. for me, i hope that you will vote in the spirit in which i have put before you what i am trying to do. i give you my full commitment to continue it, but i really hope i can get your support to take forward the agenda in the way that i have described. that would be of enormous importance to me and i hope you are able to do so tonight.
i have received nine draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 march 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs dagmara roth-behrendt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cosmetic products (recast) (com (2008) 0049 - c6-0053/2008 - 2008/0035 (cod)) (a6-0484/2008).
no one in the room has volunteered to discuss it. i would therefore like to inform you, before i give the floor to the rapporteur, that 14 speakers have spoken so far, 11 of whom are women.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i would be tempted to comment briefly on your last remark, but i will spare myself that. men are also interested in cosmetics, more and more, by the way. anyway, they're interested in the safety of our cosmetic products. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the european parliament in this matter. we have really, as mr davies said, provided a good example of what european legislation can do. if i may give you one more piece of personal advice, mr davies: it may also be interesting to point out in your own country that in europe we have regulations on cosmetics which do not exist elsewhere, namely the prohibition on animal testing for cosmetic products. it's banned in europe. the commission has also recently introduced a regulation prohibiting the placing on the market in europe of products tested on animals. with the british's well-known animal-friendliness, perhaps that's an argument you can use.
it was an extremely fruitful and interesting debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 24 march 2009).
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs octavia sârbu on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/8/ec concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market, as regards the extension of certain time limits (com ((2008) 0618 - c6-0346/2008 - 2008/0188co ((d)) (a6-0076/2009) and - statement by the commission on the new proposal for a review of biocidal products.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the need for harmonisation of legislation on biocidal products in the european union is all the more apparent given the wide variation in national regulations. the absence of common rules is dangerous for human health and life and for the environment, especially in a free market. however, the 10-year period proposed in the original version of the document for the implementation of the legislation is unrealistic due to the extremely complex and costly registration procedures for the compounds used in these preparations. paradoxically, procedures which were intended to be highly safe may contribute to a reduction in the level of controls, which is all the more problematic given that in some cases national regulations have allowed controls on biocidal products placed on the market. however, the elimination of these mechanisms and the introduction of inefficient and costly evaluation procedures may limit the scope of the marketing of biocidal products. nor will a european central list of active substances in biocidal products ensure safety, especially as biological agents are highly variable and resistant to active substances. a limited selection of effective compounds will only promote increased resistance. in addition, the high costs and complexity of the procedures will eliminate small companies from the market, leading to its monopolization by the big players in the industry. therefore, the proposed extended transitional period of 14 years, with the possibility of a further extension of two years, is all the more necessary as the registration of active substances and the transposition of the provisions into national law is not possible before 2014.
mr. chairman, please! due to their specific nature and the potential risk of misinterpretation of the legal provisions, biocidal products are a subject to which particular attention should be paid. i agree with the rapporteur that the extension of the transitional period until 2014 for the evaluation of active substances in biocidal products is necessary to regulate the market with eu legislation. otherwise, would the national legislation, which expires in 2010, make the marketing of a significant proportion of biocidal products illegal, which could lead to a number of paradoxical situations? during the transitional period, this specific market should be closely monitored by national rules. it is worth adding that any regulation on biocidal products should be treated with particular caution, bearing in mind that these are means of destroying and deterring harmful organisms and that they have a chemical action. any disregard for caution can lead to irreversible consequences.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the committee on development and its rapporteur, mrs martens, for this report, which takes stock of the strategic partnership between africa and the european union one year after the lisbon summit. i am naturally very pleased to note the number of positive elements that this report highlights, progress that has been achieved in the space of one year, which is relatively short for such a large and above all politically ambitious exercise. to mention just one, we had a meeting this afternoon with the european parliament's ad hoc delegation to the pan-african parliament and the pan-african parliament's ad hoc committee to the european parliament on the role of parliaments in the implementation and monitoring of the africa/european union strategy. this is in itself a concrete result. a new institutional architecture is being established between the two continents and i would like to congratulate the two presidents on the work they have done. rather than dwell on the positive aspects of the martens report, i would like to try to touch on three key points that the report highlights for improving the european union/african union partnership. firstly, the role of parliaments. you know how much i support the role of parliaments as actors, but also as scrutineers of the democratic process. it is in this dual capacity that the european parliament and the pan-african parliament are invited to take part in the africa/european union strategic partnership. i can therefore assure you of my full support for the proposals made in the joint european parliament/pan-african parliament note and contained in the report, which consist, firstly, in participation at the appropriate level in the joint expert group of the four thematic partnerships which are of interest to you. secondly, the association with the preparation of the annual progress reports. thirdly, participation in the joint task force and fourthly, participation of the presidents in the africa/european union summit. a number of these proposals have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. as for civil society and non-state actors, no one is more convinced than i am that the main challenge for 2009 is to accelerate the production of tangible results by the mid-term evaluation scheduled for autumn 2009 and to achieve the ambition of a partnership focused on people beyond institutions. in this context, non-state actors have an important role to play, which should be associated with the joint expert group for each of the eight thematic partnerships. on the european side, a civil society steering group was already set up last spring to monitor and participate in the implementation of the partnership. on the african side, a civil society steering committee was also recently set up under the aegis of the african union's ecosoc. european and african civil society should meet in a forum at the end of april 2009 to formulate concrete proposals for engagement to the joint africa/european union ministerial troika. as regards strategic partnerships, and in particular the one on governance and human rights, i am pleased to see that parliament is moving towards a notion of governance which is very dear to me, the proper exercise of the royal functions and prerogatives of public power by an impartial state capable of satisfying the needs and aspirations of these citizens. it is with this in mind that two years ago we set up the governance tranche of eur 2.7 billion for all acp countries, an approach based on three principles: dialogue, the encouragement of reforms and the ownership of reforms by the partner country. however, the report expresses doubts and concerns, particularly regarding governance profiles: their development, their use and their possible negative impact on the african peer review mechanism. i would like to point out that the governance profiles covering all the dimensions of the programmes, namely the political, economic, social, institutional, environmental, etc. dimensions, were only the starting point and did not guide the programming of this tranche in any way. in addition, the results and conclusions of this analysis were discussed with the government of the partner country during the programming dialogue. on this basis, the government was encouraged to explain its own reform plan or, where appropriate, to complete or elaborate it, and to demonstrate the relevance, ambition and credibility of these reforms on the basis of the three evaluation criteria which then allowed the level of the incentive tranche for each country to be determined. in this context, particular attention was paid to those countries that have committed themselves to the african peer review process and have completed the review, thus showing their willingness to progress in this direction. the exercise has highlighted the very different contexts of each country, their respective reform needs and the different levels of capacity to develop and propose a governance plan. flexibility and pragmatism were therefore necessary in the allocation of the governance incentive tranche. for all intents and purposes, in january 2009 the commission published and forwarded to the eu institutions a progress report on the incentive tranche process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. development policy is one of the key areas of the european union's policy to address global challenges. it is no accident and no good that the first joint partnership strategy was created for and with africa. one reason why development policy is so important is that it has become a kind of historical policy instrument. in this context, the essential objective of development cooperation is to neutralise the processes and mechanisms that have existed in the past. it was described in a colorful, if simplified, way by jomo kenyatta, the father of kenya's independence. i know you know that quote. mr. kenyatta once said, "when the white man came to africa, he had the bible, and we had the land. they taught us to pray with our eyes closed. when we opened them, we found that we had the bible and the white man had the land. but historical politics is not the only reason for europe's involvement in development issues. there are also more pragmatic reasons. africa is still the poorest continent in the world, but it is experiencing economic growth for the first time in thirty years. and by the way, it's higher than in europe. of course, there are african countries that have devastated their economies because of ineffective governance. generally speaking, africa is a continent with untapped potential. i am glad that the european union is helping to revive and unlock this potential. therefore, one of the objectives of the strategy is to extend dialogue and cooperation beyond areas of typical development. the strategy covers a wide range of policy areas, including security, energy and climate change. however, it is worrying that progress is weak in most of the thematic groups and it must be acknowledged that some eu member states are not as strongly committed to the partnership with africa as other members. i am confident that the second year of the partnership will be better and will allow us to achieve our objectives more quickly.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. once again, the african issue is before the european parliament. we are not talking about war, human rights, aid to developing countries, but we are trying to sum up the state of the partnership between africa and the european union. unfortunately, that partnership is virtually non-existent. we have, of course, a very high level of understanding and cooperation between the african union, the african union parliament and the african union commission. yet africa remains the poorest continent, with the shortest life expectancy in the world, with hunger and disease on an unprecedented scale, and with almost zero education and health, especially in the slums of africa's cities and countryside. the african union's impact on economic development is so small that it is a front organization with no impact on the day-to-day management of the problems. an organization of politicians who, by using it, participate in the political life of the world. and yet, it is a continent rich in natural resources that benefit the entire world. but this has not improved the living conditions of the people and reduced poverty. various organizations are trying to fight it, but little progress has been made. the rapporteur, mr maria martens, has written about this very clearly. there's really no way to help africa, and the report doesn't give a prescription. we remember how calm kenya was in a matter of days, and it was bloody. how can we help to ensure that the financial resources of the various countries are used properly? we talked about this a few months ago. we also talked about how china is doing. maybe they found the right way. you have to follow this road carefully.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, in december 2007, the european parliament adopted a new african union strategy, which focuses on reducing poverty in african countries, with little progress being made in the past year. secondly, unfortunately, the ongoing financial and economic crisis may worsen the situation of african countries. the world's leading financial institutions are forecasting a 1% decline in world gdp in 2009 the imf, 2% the world bank, and the world trade organization a decline in the value of world trade of as much as 9%. it'll be the first time in 50 years. the crisis in the most developed countries, the fund says, will spill over into developing countries, including africa, and rising unemployment and poverty could cause social unrest and, in some cases, war. i would therefore hope that the crisis and its effects will continue to be felt for the next few years and that the eu-africa cooperation strategy will be adjusted accordingly to prevent such social unrest and possibly armed conflict triggered by the global economic crisis.
mr. chairman, please! the partnership discussed today responds to africa's needs, supports the process of democratization and the protection of human rights, and ensures a stronger mutual commitment to combating climate change and ensuring energy security. today, as we see increasing global interdependence and shared responsibility, we need to engage with potentially weaker partners as well. and so, for example, in terms of climate change, although africa is the least contributor to the deterioration of our atmosphere, it is africa that will be most affected by the effects of climate change. it is therefore necessary to involve african countries in the fight against climate change, in particular by making the widest possible use of the renewable energy resources available to them. some countries are seeking to make the countries of the african region their sphere of influence. it's not supposed to be like this. africa needs our help and support, not subjugation. at the same time, we should treat it as an equal partner, not just a recipient of financial aid. such an attitude encourages greater commitment.
in writing. india is a land of contrasts. its image of the world has been shaped by overpopulation, poverty (80% of the population lives on less than $2 a day) and disease. recent economic developments have helped to propel india to the forefront of the world economy. but the advances in medical science, technology, and space exploration contrast with the lack of food and clean water. india's largest foreign investor and trading partner is the eu. in 2007, european union investment accounted for 65% of all investment in india. indian investments in the union have also increased several times over the past years. the eu should give priority to the rules-based multilateral trading system established by the wto, which offers the best prospects for fair and equitable international trade. however, it is important to note that india is facing a huge hunger problem (india ranks 66 out of 88 countries in the world in terms of hunger). india has also not signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, being the world's nuclear power. the problem of child labour, which is often carried out in hazardous and unhealthy conditions, is also a cause for concern. human rights and democracy clauses should be an essential part of the free trade agreement with india, alongside respect for environmental and social standards and agreements.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the reform of the european union's structural policy for 2007-13 has brought about changes in the structure of the funds and the rules for the distribution of aid. one of the major changes was the creation of a new european agricultural fund for rural development linked to the common agricultural policy. while rural development measures were linked to the structural funds and cohesion policy in the 2000-06 financial perspective, thereby separating them from the cap, they became part of a cap-related heading in the new financial framework. however, following the introduction of these changes, the question arises whether this chapter has led to an improvement in the efficiency of the use of the available funds. however, linking the cap funds to rural development measures is only an apparent simplification of the budgetary scheme. in fact, it contributes to the separation of non-agricultural appropriations from cohesion policy and, as a consequence, to the duplication or omission of certain objectives in both chapters. there is a risk that the resources available under regional policy will be used to a large extent for the development of economic competitiveness concentrated in larger urban centres or the most active regions, while the rural fund concentrates its resources on improving non-agricultural areas, on improving the competitiveness of agriculture. in this situation, expenditure to support non-agricultural activities and the development of smes in rural areas would be at the interface between the two funds and would not be covered by either of them. there may also be a lack of resources for the provision of basic public services and infrastructure investments in rural areas, to which the cohesion fund should also contribute. in this context, it is of particular importance to develop a clear, long-term rural development strategy at member state and regional level in order to be able to clearly define priorities and objectives in rural development and to align aid measures accordingly. however, linking the second pillar to cohesion policies would require close coordination of actions at national level. the concept of rural areas has not yet been precisely defined. traditionally, they have been distinguished from urban areas by their lower population density, different employment structure, lower income levels and poorer access to public roads. from the point of view of territorial cohesion, which is also not sufficiently defined, the lower population density should not, however, be the decisive differentiator. one of the union's development objectives is to modernise the social fabric, including the employment structure. territorial cohesion can therefore be enhanced by matching the employment structure of rural and urban areas. however, income levels and access to public goods remain the main challenges for territorial cohesion, and these objectives can be most effectively achieved by promoting non-agricultural activities in rural areas. however, measures for this purpose should not in any way reduce the appropriations for direct payments to agriculture. the difficulty in implementing rural policy stems from the intersection of sectoral policies with territorial cohesion policy, as well as the intersection of the economic and social dimensions, hence the emphasis in the actions so far on the demarcation of competences rather than on the synergy of actions. however, the aim of coordination should be to achieve synergies in the use of the funds. there are many models of coordination of these activities in different countries and it is difficult to say at this stage that any national solution should be a model. however, it seems that it is the political will rather than some organizational solution that will determine success. therefore, the application of the open method of coordination at union level to this aspect of cooperation could be a favourable solution. it should be stressed that rural development policy has a major impact on territorial cohesion. it therefore does not seem appropriate to decouple the tasks of this policy from cohesion policy for regional development. this policy can better than the cap support the solution of non-agricultural rural development problems, such as helping to re-qualify human resources to work in other sectors of the economy. however, integration of rural development policy into cohesion policy can only take place if the octs receive an adequate allocation of funds.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. i shall refer in particular to two reports: on territorial cohesion and the exchange of good practice. the other subjects will be dealt with by my colleagues in the alde group. the report by mr van nistelrooij is a response to the commission's green paper on territorial cohesion. we all agree that the opening of the debate on the future of cohesion policy should be complemented by a territorial dimension. but we are faced with a paradox: we are discussing territorial cohesion without defining it. we would like to see the territorial dimension of development to be more balanced than it has been so far, so that all citizens of the european union have the same opportunities for access to services. but there is no precise definition of what it is and what criteria it is based on. and that's the basic thing for the future. the debate on territorial cohesion in the european union is no longer meaningful without a coherent definition. achieving territorial cohesion means ensuring the best possible development of the community as a whole and improving the lives of its inhabitants. the report points out that the objective of achieving territorial cohesion should be to reduce disparities in the level of development of regions and member states, and in particular to eliminate the growing disparities within regions and countries. as differences between countries decrease, so do differences within countries. the national and regional capitals accumulate the most investment and funds at the expense of the other territories, and the member states are unable or unwilling to counter this. in this context, it is necessary to establish mechanisms at community level which will effectively stimulate a more balanced and sustainable development. i think it's worth looking at the statistics at the nuts3 level, not just nuts2. the nuts 3 data is a much better illustration of the problem. these are worth taking into account when allocating aid. the process of achieving territorial cohesion should be implemented at all levels: european, national, regional, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. the exchange of good practice is extremely important. the effectiveness of cohesion policy depends largely on simplifying procedures and learning about the possibilities of the most effective solutions elsewhere.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. our debate is about regional development and cohesion policy. these issues are of great importance to the community as a whole. today, the wealth of the regions is very diverse, even exceeding the ratio of 10:1. in the interests of the people of the union, all opportunities should therefore be used to demonstrate the real solidarity of europeans. this does not mean that everyone should have the same amount and the same. that should mean that everyone has an equal chance. this should apply to both urban and rural dwellers, to people living in the centre of europe and on its periphery, to the younger generation and to older people. we have to do it in an innovative way, with the present and the future in mind. we have six very good reports before us today. it's a shame we're discussing them in such a cramped way. i congratulate the authors. i would very much like our actions to serve this true european community, this unity. that every euro is used for a noble purpose. may it not be that the rich get richer . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! the two recent enlargements of the european union have considerably widened the regional disparities in the community. as a consequence, we are increasingly seeing the phenomenon of so-called spatial segregation, which leads to the emergence of isolated regional enclaves, particularly in areas far from the poles of development, mainly rural areas. environmentally sustainable economic development and the reduction of regional disparities are the main objectives of the european union's regional policy. in october 2006, the council adopted the strategic guidelines for cohesion as an indicative framework to help member states prepare their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes for the period 2007-13. the priorities set out in the document are to make europe and its regions more attractive for investment and jobs, to improve knowledge and innovation for growth, and to increase the number and quality of jobs. the transposition of these priorities into operational programmes should enable regions to meet the challenges of globalisation, structural, demographic and climate change and to enhance the harmonious, sustainable and sustainable development of the regions. it is commendable that all member states have already made efforts to incorporate in their operational programmes priorities corresponding to the objectives of the lisbon strategy. however, the slow absorption of the new programming period in many member states may jeopardise the effective use of the funds. it is of the utmost importance, especially in the new member states, that they consolidate actions to support the capacity to absorb effectively the funds available, including through the use of measures such as the exchange of best practices, information campaigns, the exchange of new technologies and the development of different types of partnerships, so that programme objectives can be translated into real and high-quality projects to effectively address development gaps, particularly in the poorest regions of the union.
madam president! today, with the emergence of national protectionist tendencies in europe, a rationally-led policy of cohesion and rural development is of particular importance. the current system of support from the various rural development funds only sustains, rather than undermines, the level of development of the different parts of the european union. there is a large disparity in agricultural subsidies in the new member states compared to the old ones, and this will continue beyond 2013. farmers all have similar production costs and agricultural services in the new member states are growing, often approaching prices in the old countries. so where is the chance of leveling the playing field in rural areas in the next few decades? only by providing stable, long-term support to local communities in poor regions, with the greatest possible simplification of procedures, can we close the gap and talk about genuine competition in the european union in the next few years.
madam president! it should be noted that the nature of today's debate is not accidental and that it is not accidental that we are bringing together several reports, because it is impossible to separate themes or separate issues if we are to have a serious discussion of european policy in the years ahead. in addition, if we take into account the current debate on the corrective package, it is clear that the decisions that are ahead will have a significant impact on the shape of cohesion policy after 2013. so if we are to speak of all the reports, and not of the details, the important thing is that cohesion policy is both an opportunity and a pretext for finally seeking to integrate european policies of different types, to make them complementary, to launch an integrated approach, and it is no accident that the european commission is putting forward solutions that are modern and that have the potential to change european policy altogether. the talk about territorial cohesion is really a talk about integrating action. it's a conversation about moving away from any sectoral treatment of european policies. it is also a trend which suggests that the whole territory of the union must be treated as a whole, rather than divided into richer and poorer regions. we therefore have some serious decisions to make on cohesion policy. i'd like to thank you for having this debate with us.
madam president! the creation of the european agricultural fund for rural development is of major importance from the structural policy point of view. however, to make full use of the opportunities available, it is necessary to develop a clear, long-term strategy for rural and regional development and to provide for the possibility of continuous coordination of actions at national level. we all know that the debate on territorial cohesion policy is based on different views on the concept of using funds for agricultural subsidies and rural development. there is also a concern that, once the relocations have taken place, some of these funds will be used to develop the most active urban centres and regions, of course at the expense of those that are historically lagging behind and less actively managed. we cannot accept such solutions and consequences.
madam president! cohesion policy is the main pillar of the integration process. a well-functioning cohesion policy is an essential prerequisite for achieving the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the european union. our key challenge today is to reform policy rules quickly, simplify and make more flexible the complex procedures for implementing projects and the rules for funding. the development of an interregional approach and the exchange of best practices are part of and complement the cohesion policy reform agenda. the european commission should therefore make a concrete proposal as soon as possible for the exchange of experience between project promoters. i do not think that any of you here need be convinced that, in the face of the financial and economic crisis, structural measures are a key instrument to stimulate the economy at regional level. it is therefore important to simplify procedures and to speed up the impact of measures on member states' economies. european projects are a way of creating new, sustainable jobs and an opportunity for the poorest, most deprived regions of the european union. cohesion policy should also be an instrument to meet new challenges such as the common energy policy and climate change.
madam president! cohesion policy is often considered to be the most perfect example of the principle of solidarity within the union. it is in the interest of the union as a whole to compensate for the disparities in development between the various countries and regions of the community. in my view, the green paper is a commission document that provides a good diagnosis of the current challenges facing cohesion policy in the union. the commission also sees a particular need to support regions with a specific geographical character, such as mountain areas and rural areas with economic disadvantages, which should be strongly supported. coordination and appropriate planning of support to rural areas is of paramount importance. these are areas characterised by lower economic development, lower population density, insufficient access to all types of public services, limited opportunities to find work other than in agriculture. of course, there is also a great variation in these areas between member states. if we compare rural areas with urban areas, these disparities are even more profound. we have repeatedly criticised the increase in the funds foreseen for rural development in the current financial perspective. i would like to remind you that rural development policy and the funds allocated to it help to keep these areas alive and make life easier for the people who live there. in conclusion, the commission document, the reports produced and today's discussion point in the right direction.
mr. chairman, please! territorial and social cohesion prevents conflict by eliminating its causes. this is why action to level the playing field between urban and rural living standards and to level the infrastructure between regions is so important. a good cohesion policy approach is to promote the use of microcredit. today, in the midst of the financial and economic crisis, when we are all trying to find solutions to protect jobs, we must be aware of the dangers to cohesion policy posed by protectionism and discrimination against poorer regions.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is of additional importance in the context of the current economic crisis, as the structural measures available under it can serve as effective instruments to stimulate the economy at regional level. a focus on pro-growth activities such as research and development spending, innovation and active employment instruments should boost the european economy and ensure a return to growth. i also welcome the allocation of additional funds to improve internet access in rural areas.
member of the commission. − mr president, i saved two minutes from my introductory remarks in order to have more time to respond now to the questions. whilst i regret that i cannot respond to all the questions, i very much appreciate all the bilateral exchanges we have had over the last years in brussels or during my visits on the ground in your constituencies. you are welcome to continue this dialogue with us in the commission. i should like to thank you for this really good and genuine debate today. we need to fully and wisely exploit the potential of all european and national policies to ensure that the european union as an economy and a society comes out of the crisis stronger economically, socially and politically, with solid foundations for long-term sustainable development. i feel that today’s debate confirms that european cohesion policy must play its role in this process both today and tomorrow. it is our common task today to ensure that the potential of cohesion policy – its capacity to deliver sustainable development and jobs – will be used fully and wisely in this new global context. i am not only thinking of the crisis, but also of all those well-known challenges that we identified years ago as important challenges for european development. supporting sustainable competitiveness is the most effective way to achieve cohesion in the european union. in this context, we must use the cohesion policy to target factors such as access by small and medium-sized enterprises to finance. we must also address issues such as better access to public services that aim to improve employability and productivity and thus contribute to more equal opportunities. as some of you have stressed, over the last years it has become common sense that addressing the new challenges clearly requires an integrated and place-based approach – an approach that optimises the use of resources and also mobilises all partners at regional and local level, as well as national and european level, so that we are active at all levels of european governance. concerning the partnership principle, i would like to stress that this has been a very important objective from day one of my term in office, and the commission has invested a lot in making the partnership principle and the cohesion policy a real one – one which is really used on the ground. soon after the negotiations, we conducted a full assessment of how the partnership principle and the process of designing policy programmes were implemented by the member states and the regions. we did not want just the formal presence of partnership principles, so we also worked with partners, helping them to build their capacity to be real partners in the policy management system, and we react quite efficiently to any signals we get from the ground that this principle is not being respected in the individual member states. i have just had a meeting on this very issue with ngos from one of the central european member states. i also fully agree with all of you who say that cohesion policy does not, and must not, work in isolation; that we need to reinforce the synergies and coordination between the cohesion policy and all other sectoral, national or european policies. this is not just to avoid overlap or duplication, but is also about using the synergy that comes from good coordination between the policies. certainly, the rural development and regional policies are an extreme example of the need to have very good coordination and the use of synergies between policies. another example could be competitiveness and the need to take into account the constraints coming from a low-carbon economy and climate change regarding infrastructure investment. i would like to underline very strongly that we have invested a lot in greening the european cohesion policy. we established the objectives relating to climate change, energy efficiency and renewable energy before the major debate exploded on climate change in the european union. today we have one third of cohesion policy funding going directly into green investment in all areas of our life. recently added to the policy is the additional 4% to be used in the area of housing for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy that allows us to put more emphasis on this challenge. what also clearly emerges from the debate is that we need both continuity and reform in policy delivery. on the continuity side, i would very strongly stress that this multiannual programming, financial additionality, shared management and partnership principles represent a great european value that we should continue to care about. but there is also this need for change to strike a better balance between the demands of financial management and control and the tasks of achieving good results and good implementation of the policy. there is no doubt that we need to put in place a simpler, more efficient and more effective implementing mechanism and reduce administrative complexity and the administrative burden. we have been working with your great support over the last months on this challenge. we already had the first amendment of article 55 back in december and we will be voting on the main chunk of simplification proposals a week from now. the task force that we set up with member states for the simplification of the policies is continuing its work, and at the end of may we will have another proposal, hopefully still related to this period. i agree with you that for the policy to be more effective we also need a stronger focus on results, stronger monitoring and an evaluation culture. we are continuing to work on this. i very much appreciate your support for financial engineering. we are on track, but much more can certainly be done. please also take note with respect to financial engineering, which is today one of the major instruments helping small and medium-sized companies access credit through jeremie and now also through jasmine for micro-credit, that we started this process long before the crisis hit, so the policy has also been relatively well prepared for these difficult times. some of you mentioned the question of transparency. i would just like to remind all of us here that we have new rules for this new period 2007-2013. we have the obligation to inform the public on all the beneficiaries, so we hope that with these transparency obligations we will also see major change with regard to public awareness and the integrity of the whole process. very briefly, on culture, because it was raised as an important element, we are fully aware – and i also see it during my travels – that both regions and cities are major actors in the cultural field in europe. culture also plays an important economic role in the development of regional development. we have recognised this in the framework of the european cohesion policy. we have many regional and local urban strategies that have successfully integrated culture into our policy. let me also inform you that the commission will soon launch an independent study on the contribution of culture to local and regional development, hopefully to be finalised by the beginning of next year. through this we will have a better-informed basis for the further inclusion of culture in european policies. finally, i very much appreciate all your comments not just on the report, but also what you have presented here as your concerns and ideas for the future. i shall include most of those messages in my orientation paper which i will present to council at the end of may. we are also completing the independent study by a group of researchers and experts chaired by professor fabrizio barca. this will be presented publicly at the end of april. the final official assessment of the consultation on the green paper on territorial cohesion will be presented in our sixth interim cohesion report which will be adopted by the commission towards the end of june.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you down. my report dealt with a rather specific issue, but one which is very important for optimising the use of eu funds from the point of view of cohesion, whether it is understood in the traditional sense or in terms of territorial cohesion. sustainable growth is a tremendously complex task. any attempt to facilitate this task should therefore be welcomed. however, the concept of territorial cohesion has not yet been sufficiently defined. the green paper is therefore the beginning, not the end, of the debate on this subject. i am pleased that the commissioner has stressed the need to reduce disparities in development and the importance of synergy in the implementation of eu policies. different regions have very different problems related to income levels, geographical location, population movements, etc. however, we must remember what my polish colleagues, mrs staniszewska and mr podkański and mr zapałowski, have said here, namely that the regional centres tend to accumulate funds in their own hands. it should also be borne in mind that the objectives of rural development policy need not be at odds with the lisbon objectives if the relative competitiveness mechanism, i.e. productivity gains at low cost, is used. the agriculture committee has not commented on my report, so i take your silence as consent. i think that deputy baco's voice is more of a misunderstanding. i have made it clear in my report that rural development measures cannot be used to reduce direct payments, but it is also true that rural development measures can help agricultural regions to overcome their economic difficulties by promoting non-agricultural activities. i am pleased with the support i have received from mr nicholson on this matter. finally, i would like to thank the advisers of the committee on regional development and my political group for their help in drafting this report, and all those who have taken part in this debate.
in writing. the rural population is particularly disadvantaged in terms of labour market competition. in the eu, and particularly in poland, there are significant differences in living standards between urban and rural areas. this is mainly about access to the service sector. access to modern technologies such as broadband internet is half as low in rural poland as in the city. the aim of cohesion policy should be to take concrete initiatives to level the living standards of the regions. support for small and medium-sized enterprises in obtaining co-financing from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is particularly relevant here. it is the responsibility of national governments to support small and medium-sized enterprises by removing administrative and legal barriers and providing the necessary infrastructure. these are the basic conditions for the development of remote areas.
in writing. i thank mr becsey for his report, which is so important to me and my countrymen. many people are not aware of the impact that microcredit has on the economic and social development of a country. low-cost loans, which do not require adequate collateral, are not only a tool for the poorest people in the third world. this idea has also proved successful for the unemployed, those wishing to start their first business and existing micro-entrepreneurs. offering the possibility of financing projects to people without credit is one of the most important elements of the 'think small first' principle. by offering these loans, we promote entrepreneurship and increase employment, which prevents and reduces social exclusion. so microcredit has a very positive effect, which is particularly important for my country, on the unemployment rate. however, there are a few important considerations to keep in mind when introducing this type of loan service. first, the institutional and legal framework for microcredit must be adapted to the degree of development of the loan fund market. secondly, it is necessary to examine the procedures which cover this service. unfortunately, due to their complex nature, micro-entrepreneurs and start-ups are more likely to apply for consumer credit. third, to promote microcredit, entrepreneurs should be made aware of the possibility of obtaining non-bank credit. with these reservations, i welcome the microcredit service in poland with open arms.
in writing. in the debate on cohesion policy, i would like to draw attention to the issues raised in the report by mr roszkowski on cohesion policy. 1.in the financial perspective for 2007-13, the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) became pillar ii of the cap and was therefore separated from cohesion policy. this has the consequence, particularly in the light of the tight budgetary allocations, that cohesion policy, mainly the european regional development fund (erdf), focuses on developing economic competitiveness, concentrated in larger urban centres or the most active regions, while the eafrd concentrates its resources on improving the competitiveness of agriculture. this approach may result in either duplication of some objectives or omission of some objectives in both sections (e.g. environmental protection, education, culture). 2.it is therefore necessary to assess whether the rural development funds for 2007-13 will be used more to support agriculture or whether they will also be used more to support rural beneficiaries outside the agricultural sector or beneficiaries who, while remaining in rural areas, will switch from the agricultural sector to other types of occupational activity. if it turns out that support for agriculture is preferred under pillar ii, it would seem that it would be more advantageous in the long term to link these measures to cohesion policy. 3.the financial resources for the financing of pillar ii of the cap must also be increased, for example by reducing the direct payments for large-scale farms and gradually increasing the rate of modulation, as called for by the ep.
in writing. regional policy, in the form of the structural funds and cohesion, is rightly considered to be the community policy most visible and tangible to the people of europe. no other policy provides comparable visibility to the european union and better illustrates the benefits of integration. that is why we attach such importance to the debate on the future of cohesion. cohesion has never been more necessary than now, when the two parts of europe, divided by the iron curtain since the war, have come together. for the countries that have lagged behind the yalta decision, this is the most important issue. and the particular circumstance is the crisis and the potential value of the structural funds as an anti-crisis package. we cannot allow a repeat of the 2008 situation, when 4.5 billion euros of unused funds were returned, which was our collective failure. the most important thing today is to make this section of the union budget more attractive. in the short term, other things take precedence. in the longer term, cohesion policy must be defended as a community policy that creates opportunities for all regions. as such, cohesion policy should draw on regional and local wisdom in how resources are used. the multiplication of project evaluation criteria increases the credibility of the evaluation and thus complicates the process of using the funds. it doesn't make sense today, in the face of the crisis, or in the long run.
in writing. poland will receive over €67 billion from the eu budget in 2007-13. in 2008 alone, the european commission granted poland a total of pln 19.3 billion in financial transfers. however, the specific nature of the implementation of the programmes means that most payments will be made in the last years, i.e. 2013-15. unfortunately, there are already fundamental constraints on the effective implementation of the structural funds in poland. from the start of the 2007-13 programmes to the beginning of march 2009, almost 8,400 co-financing agreements were signed for a total expenditure of pln 15,4 billion. the eu's contribution is pln 11.4 billion. unfortunately, the total value of the payment requests is pln 1.75 billion. excessively long procurement procedures can delay the implementation of the structural funds and thus contribute to a low absorption rate. the structural funds are public funds subject to national legislation on public procurement. legislation in the field of public procurement must simplify the effective procedure for selecting the contractor. too long tendering procedures can delay the implementation of the structural funds. eu measures should be part of mitigating one of the most serious effects of the financial crisis. accelerating spending will allow the economy to be fuelled in 2009 by investment in infrastructure, human capital and enterprises estimated to be equivalent to at least around 1.3% of gdp. to do this, the government must make it easier to access eu funds and simplify procedures.
(microphone initially off) is a comprehensive set of instruments to assist african countries in their development. the package is comprehensive because, given the number of problems that have accumulated in africa, only comprehensive solutions can work. what do we got? over the last few years, we have seen a lot of interest in africa from china, which is pursuing an expansionary investment policy in the region. such initiatives will accelerate the continent's development, but only if african citizens, especially local people, and not just employees of companies investing in other countries, are heavily involved in building prosperity. the european union has succeeded in removing economic barriers. the economic development of individual countries should be promoted, as should the development of interconnection networks and the access of african products to the world market.
mr. chairman, please! the universal nature of european art indicates the need to re-establish the role of schools as the main centre for the dissemination of culture. it's a chance to democratize access to culture. art education educates sensitivity and opens up creative possibilities. it should be a compulsory part of the school curriculum at all stages of development. the european year of creativity and innovation is a great opportunity to give art its rightful place, also in education, to appreciate its integration role. the protection of the cultural traditions of the regions and the possibility of discovering them through mobility, also in the field of cultural education, is another opportunity for creative development. this is why it is so important to launch a community mobility programme for europeans in the arts. it is a justification for my vote in favour of the report, but it is also a protest against the shortened debate on this document, which means that it is being adopted virtually without debate.
mr. chairman, please! i object to the way this report has been worked out. building the trust of eu citizens in the european institutions is not just about knowing what the eu is doing and how it is doing, which is something that is lacking. it is above all the feeling of being a co-decision-maker, of having a say in the union, of the rights guaranteed by the treaties not being infringed. european citizens' debate organised in all the countries of the union is the best way to make people believe that the european union is really about the citizens of the countries that make it up. so that the hundred people who prepared the most important tasks for the poles, which the institutions of the european union should carry out, would not feel cheated. the list of demands must be taken very seriously. the same applies to the papers of the participants in the debate from other countries. the fact that the european parliament has been prevented from having a real debate on the citizens' dialogue is all the more surprising.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the government of nepal on certain aspects of air services. i agree with the rapporteur's request for the conclusion of the agreement. i believe that the amendments on the issue of the designation clause, the taxation of aviation fuel and the fixing of prices are justified changes to the bilateral agreements currently in force. i hope that building on mutual trust in each other's systems will facilitate the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. - it is true that art subjects are taught in schools all over europe. it is also true that europe, or societies, are changing rapidly, and with it, information and communication technologies. europe is also uniting, and cultural education can serve this process no less well than, for example, the common market. this can be done through arts education at all levels of education, i.e. deepening theoretical and practical knowledge of europe's diversity and multiculturalism. there is a lot of it, and it is constantly being added, but the fact that it is taught in different countries does not make it possible, for example, to train an artist whose knowledge and potential will be recognised and used in another member state. the question of coordination therefore arises, and here the badii and cutchet reports propose an interesting solution, namely the open method of coordination, i.e. 'bringing the issue to practical ground' and 'learning from each other by looking at the examples of those countries which have best solved the problems. this method is therefore practically entirely in the hands of the member states. this approach is flexible, allows for coordination of complex issues and allows for a rapid response to today's challenges. the issue of training artists is complex: their creativity must be stimulated through a special individualised master-learner approach, equipped with knowledge of europe's constantly evolving culture and with creative tools, and given the freedom to pursue a career. a sensible and constructive reflection on art education is an investment in the future and identity of a europe united in its diversity.
in writing. - dialogue with citizens is a serious and difficult matter, but those in power must master this art well. that's the essence of their work: dialogue, compromise. in this context, the background of the report seems to be somewhat contradictory. it calls for the ratification of the lisbon treaty to be completed as soon as possible, as one of the important conditions for the dialogue on europe. the report concludes that the treaty will increase transparency and involve citizens in decision-making. it may seem that those who dislike the treaty will be ignored and their voices will not be heard. so it's hard to talk about dialogue and compromise. the idea of creating a 'common european knowledge' through the study of european history and european integration is also controversial. this would be the aim of a programme agreed at community level and adopted on a voluntary basis by the member states, paid for by the community budget. in short, this is a historic compromise which will serve as a tool for building common european values. i think we should not go so far. historical compromise is a vague notion, if such a compromise is necessary at all. besides, the instrumental use of history is objectionable, even if the intentions are sincere. the key to effective dialogue lies in the present, which presents us with enough problems as it is. we need to talk! in short, yes to dialogue, no to reporting.
in writing. - the debate on the issue of dialogue between the union and its citizens is very much needed. the way in which europe is perceived by its citizens, and the way in which the community works, remains a key issue. people accept what they know, but what's distant, unknown, makes them anxious. the examples of the irish referendum and earlier in france and the netherlands show that the voices of our citizens cannot be ignored. decisions should not be made in the privacy of the offices without the public's input. nihil novi - nothing new about us without us. it is necessary to reach the poorest and least educated citizens. we need a clear and readable message to the public about what we are doing, what we want to achieve and finally what benefits this activity will bring to our citizens. real integration is impossible without full acceptance of the union's actions by our electorate. surveys show that only just over 50% of eu citizens are satisfied with their country's membership of the community. of course, this varies from country to country. success will be achieved when the rate is 80%. the responsibility to bring the eu closer to its citizens lies not only with the eu institutions in the broad sense, but, in my view, primarily with us, the members of the european parliament. i myself organize hundreds of meetings every year with youth, farmers, entrepreneurs. let us teach our citizens to benefit from the eu. the first test of our effectiveness will be the june election.
in writing. − the rapporteur notes that active dialogue with citizens on europe is poorly developed. i'm afraid he's right, though. often, information about the union reaches only the well-educated and wealthy, which contributes to the skepticism and antipathy of the rest of the citizens of european countries. the education of european citizens is therefore an essential element in the further development of the european community. the rapporteur is seeking to find ways of reaching a wider audience, which will allow citizens to have a better knowledge of the european union. it is based on the following pragmatic and popular methods to reach the widest possible audience: introducing a year-long education programme on the european union since 1945 in schools, creating a television news channel modelled on cnn in the us, or creating websites in a form that is as accessible to young people as possible. i agree and support the importance of the information campaign on the european union as a method of raising public awareness and i also think that the rapporteur has very good ideas for implementing it.
in writing. − the introduction of such strict regulations on certain substances in cosmetics is against the interest of many polish companies. the polish cosmetics industry is mainly made up of small and medium-sized companies that cannot afford to carry out complex testing to introduce substitute substances in many cosmetics. first, the ingredients banned by the regulation only concern 5% of cosmetics and, moreover, could be used by the industry in concentrations that are safe for health. unfortunately, the amendments proposed by poland were not accepted. that is why i did not support mrs roth-behrendt's report.
in writing. −the multilingualism of the eu is an asset in its contacts with third countries. this can give us a significant competitive advantage, which is why education programmes and language exchanges should be encouraged, but not only within urban areas where access is already easier. in pursuing this policy, we must also remember that united europeans are first and foremost citizens of their own countries. we have to make sure that they can identify with their own language. this aspect is also dealt with in mr moore's report.
in writing. - the issue of multilingualism and its preservation is one of the most difficult challenges facing the community. the effects of a multilingual policy are far-reaching and, of course, if misunderstood, can be lamentable. europe's strength is its multiculturalism, which is also expressed in the multiplicity of its languages. it is also a shared commitment, based on the need and the challenge of turning multiculturalism into a force that unites the community, acts externally and gives europe its rightful place in the world. so the stakes are high. the wrong policy of multilingualism is to favour one or more languages and condemn the rest to be marginalized in all public activities. the european union, through its legislation and institutions, has a huge potential to implement a good language policy. the greater the responsibility, the greater the responsibility. the vasco graçy moura report does not solve all the problems of the right of coexistence and the privileges that this gives to the various european languages. besides the official languages, there are a great many other languages spoken in europe that are more or less in danger of disappearing. a good multilingualism policy is one that defends these languages. the report focuses on learning official languages rather than on the implementation of the idea of multilingualism. but these issues require sensible policies of an evolutionary nature, and i think the report on this path is acceptable.
in writing. - multilingualism is undoubtedly a great asset of a united europe. the language skills acquired should help to improve qualifications, to get a better job or to acquire new interpersonal contacts. according to annual surveys by linguists, multilinguals have greater abilities, more fluency, and a more developed imagination than monolinguals. they're also more creative and have a broader mindset. i will not mention the obvious benefits of being able to communicate with a larger number of people, often of a completely different mentality, often from different cultures or nations. the benefits of multilingualism that i mentioned are a sign that we should all make learning languages a priority. that is why it is so important that every citizen of the community should have the same access to learning foreign languages on an equal footing. i therefore support all the commission's efforts to study and evaluate foreign language teaching, teaching methods and curricula. i believe that these measures are intended to standardize the system of teaching foreign languages throughout the union in the future, which will lead to an increase in language competences and will be reflected in the number of highly qualified community citizens.
in writing. - i am strongly in favour of multilingualism in the european union. the multilingualism of europe is underlined by its cultural plurality, which is a testament to its uniqueness. the linguistic competences of the citizens of a united europe should be constantly developed. multilingualism is an essential element of european integration, allowing eu citizens to freely choose where to live and find work. at the same time, the importance of the mother tongue as a means of acquiring appropriate education and vocational qualifications should be emphasised. we should pay particular attention to the need to continuously improve the competence of foreign language teachers and to introduce modern teaching techniques. the rapporteur stresses the importance of enabling citizens who wish to pursue their education privately to learn foreign languages, while stressing the importance of language learning also for older people. like the rapporteur, i believe that it is important to continue to encourage citizens to learn foreign languages and that special attention should be paid to citizens with fewer opportunities. i believe that language learning will counteract discrimination and promote the integration of the countries of a united europe. i fully support the european parliament's demands for a multilingual europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr vlasak on the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period. i live in the city of poznań, which is the capital of greater poland. almost every day i experience the positive impact of the development of the city on the development of the whole region. i would even venture to say that there is a much-awaited synergy between urban development and regional development. urban development has nothing to do with local centralization. those who attack the promotion of large cities often fail to understand the importance of these cities to the regions in which they are located. some of the functions of urban centres cannot be transferred to rural areas. city managers have a special responsibility. the challenges they face in planning, spatial planning, social dialogue, culture and education, and in supporting the creation of new, sustainable, knowledge-based jobs are very difficult. some of these tasks require close cooperation with local authorities at other levels. it is also important that the urban dimension of cohesion policy is not competitive with, but complementary to, rural development. both rural and urban areas can and should develop, and both processes are supported by the european union.
in writing. − small businesses play a vital role in creating jobs in europe and it is they who need to be facilitated. i would like to emphasise that i support any initiative to promote small businesses in the european union and to support those who want to start a self-employed business. i supported mr becsey's report because it gives a positive assessment of the microcredit initiative in europe.
in writing. − the success of microcredit in reducing poverty in developing countries, particularly in south asia and latin america, has not yet been transferred to the eu. however, demand for microcredit is high, especially from people who cannot obtain loans in the traditional banking sector. the microcredit business is different from traditional banking. it is not only for economic reasons and not only for profit, but it also serves the purpose of cohesion by trying to integrate disadvantaged people who want to start a micro-enterprise. the success of the european microfinance initiative could contribute to achieving the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and to creating an innovative, creative and dynamic european economy. in particular, they may serve the priority of unlocking economic potential by promoting the social and economic integration or reintegration of persons through self-employment. i therefore support the conclusions of the report which calls for the adoption of the appropriate national institutional, legal and commercial frameworks necessary to promote a more favourable environment for the development of microcredit and the establishment of a harmonised european framework for non-bank microfinance institutions.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on a european initiative to develop microcredit to support growth and jobs. i agree with the rapporteur that small businesses are an important source of employment growth, entrepreneurial skills, innovation and cohesion in the eu. it should be emphasised that microcredit is often granted not only for economic reasons and not only for profit, but also for the purpose of cohesion by attempting to integrate or reintegrate disadvantaged people into society. i support the adoption of the report. given that microcredit can help to realise the unlocking of economic potential by supporting people through self-employment, i believe that this approach should be transferred to the eu.
mr. chairman, please! the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development are two institutions of great value for the development of areas within the union as well as in third countries. this is particularly true now, in the face of the financial crisis and the resulting restrictions on investment credit. while most banks have drastically restricted lending to countries neighbouring the union in relation to their financial programmes, both institutions have been active in promoting investments in transport or environmental protection. at the same time, the european investment bank is an important source of loans and guarantees for the european sme sector. in these difficult times for business, this is an invaluable support. equally important, the six priorities pursued by the european investment bank included actions to ensure sustainable and secure energy competition for the union.
ebrd. − mr president, thank you very much for this report and the chance to continue the discussion begun with the committee in november. it is timely and welcome in particular for three reasons. first, the context of the financial and economic crisis renders any encouragement of greater cooperation between ebrd and eib more relevant than ever. yet the crisis also means that cooperation between public international financial institutions is no longer just a policy-driven aspiration but a vital necessity. faced with the dramatic decline in private flows of credit, we came together last month with the world bank group to launch the joint ifi action plan in support of banking systems and lending to the real economy in central and eastern europe. this is a eur 24.5 billion package over 2009 and 2010 of which the ebrd will contribute eur 6 billion. the action plan recognises that an effective crisis response in europe’s integrated financial markets requires fast and coordinated action by all stakeholders: parent banks which own a large part of the region’s financial sectors; important local banks; home and host country authorities of cross-border banking groups; european institutions and the ifis. with this wide range of stakeholders we are working together to implement the plan and are developing the coordination and cooperation mechanisms to do so. and we see – as we saw last august when faced with the conflict-driven banking crisis in georgia – that this kind of ifi cooperation, born of need, is the kind that works best. second, under the aegis of the european union, new structures of cooperation between ebrd and eib offer great new opportunities for us to work together. i refer in particular to the western balkans investment framework, now being launched, as well as to the eastern partnership announced by the european council in recent days which will build on the good cooperation we have already established through our memorandum of understanding and the neighbourhood investment facility. these initiatives, facilitated by ec funds, bring us together to work concretely on specific projects and programmes combining the strength of each institution and, as such, offer an excellent crucible in which to forge the development of our joint work. i believe it is in this context that we may find divisions of labour, applications of joint expertise and the necessary mechanisms of cooperation, including common standards, which you have called for. third, i take the european parliament’s views as welcome input to the early stages of the ebrd’s fourth capital resources review which we will conclude at our annual meeting in zagreb in may 2010. the ebrd has taken a proactive stance in response to the crisis: supporting our clients in countries of operations, we are expanding our instruments, and aim to invest eur 7 billion in 2009 – an increase of more than 20%. at the same time, we have to acknowledge that our risk exposure is also increasing. the full implications of the current situation on our portfolio and on the development of our business cannot yet be clearly seen. yet the importance of our partnership with the eib and with the european union in meeting our commitments, both to our shareholders and to our countries of operations, is clearer than ever.
president of the eib. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for giving us the opportunity once again to continue the constructive dialogue which has been established between the eib and parliament over the past few years. i am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the two reports before us today, because they are both interesting and raise very relevant questions, questions which i hope we will have the opportunity to return to later. today, of course, we are facing a crisis of a particular magnitude, probably the most serious crisis since the end of the second world war, and it is therefore quite normal that in this context the member states should call on our two institutions to try to contribute to the european union's response to this crisis. you know that in this context the member states, our shareholders, have asked the european investment bank to substantially increase the volume of its lending in 2009, an increase of some 30% compared with the initial forecasts, and to direct this additional effort mainly in three directions: firstly, loans to banks for small and medium-sized enterprises; secondly, energy and, in particular, the fight against climate change; thirdly, the fight against climate change; and fourthly, the fight against climate change. and thirdly, a special effort for the countries most affected by the crisis. where are we today? i'm going to give you figures that actually cover the last three months of 2008, so from the time the first calls were made to the eib and the first two months of 2009. over the five months, we signed loans for more than 31 billion, an increase of 38% compared to the same period in late 2007/early 2008. in the first direction, loans for small and mediumsized enterprises, 5.6 billion were signed during this short period. many of you have stressed the importance of supporting small and mediumsized enterprises in the current context. we are making a very special effort in this direction and i can already tell you that the target which we had set for ourselves of 15 billion of these loans for the years 2008/2009 will be exceeded. as regards the second objective, energy and the fight against climate change, we have also made a special effort here and it is in this context that we must place the financing for the automobile industry because it must be clear: what we are financing in this sector are research, development and production projects for clean cars, that is to say cars which will meet the new european union standards for reducing co2 emissions. and finally, as regards the third priority, support for the countries most affected by the crisis: during the same five-month period, we signed loans worth 910 million in hungary, 600 million in latvia, 1 billion in romania and 1.1 billion in lithuania. i think i can say that we are trying to respond to the call of the member states and to implement what has been agreed quickly. and president mirow himself has already referred to the joint action plan with the sfi and the ebrd in support of the banking sector in central and eastern europe. of course, this increase in the volume of our loans is only possible thanks to the capital increase which was decided by our shareholders - it costs nothing to the budget of the member states - but we needed the authorization of our shareholders to convert our reserves into capital, that is what was decided. many of you asked questions about the control and supervision of the european investment bank, and i personally think that the question is quite legitimate. when a financial institution develops in this way, it is natural to worry about how it is actually controlled. there is what already exists, which is not negligible: it is a number of internal controls, it is also and above all an external control by an independent audit committee and which reports directly to our governors. the lisbon treaty also provides for the strengthening of the audit committee by adding persons with proven experience in banking supervision. can we go any further? i would remind you that the court of auditors already controls all the eib's activities as soon as they involve the use of funds from the european budget. should we go further to formal banking supervision? that is what mrs stauner wanted. mr bullmann indicated that things might not be so simple. it's worth discussing. i can simply confirm today that the european investment bank is fully prepared to submit to formal banking supervision if it is deemed necessary. for the time being, we have organized, with the financial sector supervisory committee in luxembourg, a form of informal supervision. in reply to mr audy, i would say that the approach he had wanted to be taken last year with the cebs has been achieved. we therefore asked the committee of european banking supervisors, but they told us that they themselves had no authority in this matter and could not even act as an adviser. we are therefore still in the hands of those who wish to take the initiative in this respect. i'll call you back when we're ready. a word to conclude on the cooperation between our two institutions. president mirow has already indicated that it is developing well, particularly in the western balkans and in our eastern neighbours, more recently in turkey. i simply want to say, in respect of speaking time, that we fully agree with the recommendations contained in mr mitchell's report. we believe that it would be in the common interest of our institutions, but also of our borrowers, if we moved towards a more rational, more functional division of labour. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about mr seppänen's report. i would like to say how much we appreciated mr seppänen's constructive approach, which proposes a temporary solution, which allows the eib to continue its activities, but which sets a date for a substantive debate on the role of the european investment bank outside the european union. i have no doubt that this is a debate that will hold us back and which i think is timely.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in the debate. i think that most of the speeches show a high degree of agreement and consensus on the guidelines which the presidents of the two banks have just set out, in these times of crisis but also of opportunity, to encourage, from the use of their resources and their activity, policies which are so necessary in the european union such as energy efficiency, the fight against climate change, support for small and mediumsized enterprises or support for clean technologies in sectors which are at the moment as affected as the automobile. i think there is also very broad agreement on the need to step up, as far as possible, the actions of both banks in those countries which are particularly affected or hit by the crisis, within the european union, but also beyond our borders, and i agree with all of you who have asked the banks to do more. i do not agree with any of the voices that have told the banks that in these difficult times they should do less or be more prudent. i believe that the existence of banks such as the european investment bank or the ebrd is particularly justified in times like the present. and a few final words on the comments concerning the supervision of the european investment bank. i am glad that mr maystadt has shown his willingness - which i was already aware of - to analyse and find a solution to this question, which was already raised in the debate last year. the commission is of course ready to work with mr maystadt from today onwards to find the most effective mechanisms, both in accordance with our legal system and in order to find a solution to such an important issue, especially at a time when the european investment bank and the ebrd have to resort to markets which are more difficult than in previous years to obtain financing on favourable terms and with the highest possible rating with which both banks work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 march 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: the report by kyösti virrankoski on behalf of the committee on budgets on the abb-abm methodology as a management tool for budget allocation (2008/2053 ((ini)) (a6-0104/2009) and the report by reimer böge on behalf of the committee on budgets on the mid-term review of the financial framework 2007-2013 (2008/2055 ((ini)) (a6-0110/2009).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the two reports presented today call for the assessment that we are forced to make by the relevant decisions of the various bodies of the european union. evaluation of the cost management tools for the activities, the task budgets or the 'strategic programming planning' cycle may be necessary, but they give the impression of doing art for art's sake. how are we supposed to compare the pursuit of political goals with the construction of power plants or transportation networks? is the european union an enterprise and therefore we try to apply similar mechanisms for evaluating efficiency? the same applies to the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. we do daily evaluations, moving funds within the annual budgets. such decisions are taken by the european council, increasing the level of appropriations for the implementation of the relevant tasks. stable multiannual financial frameworks give everyone a long-term sense of security and this should be respected above all, especially in these difficult times. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs reimer böge and kyösti virrankoski on their excellent reports. commissioner, i wish you great success in the upcoming elections.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate i would like to make three points to the commission. the european commission needs to present a support scheme for regions which have exceeded 75% of gdp per capita in the current financial perspective but still require funding because of strong internal development differentials. i would just like to remind you that some regions in spain, portugal, italy and greece have received such transitional funding in the current financial perspective. it is also necessary to make a final judgment on the withdrawal of further attempts to renationalize the common agricultural policy. it is not possible to guarantee that the cap is compulsorily co-financed by the individual member states at a similar level, which would lead to a significant distortion of competition and thus to the de facto dismantling of the cap. in the context of the european commission's drive to decouple direct payments from production, it is also necessary to eliminate after 2013 the strong differentiation in support to 1 ha of agricultural land that currently exists between the old and new member states. the continued existence of this differentiation after 2013 will effectively mean the toleration of two common agricultural policies within the union.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'll continue in a language you can understand, commissioner grybautskaite. well, we're presenting today the conclusions of two closed fiscal years with a seven-year perspective. this should, of course, lead to some caution in drawing conclusions. i think that the unanimous adoption of the reimer boge report by the committee on budgets shows that he has found common ground between the views of the various political groups. what is important to me is the fact that almost 5 billion euros of the 2008 budget were not used. it can't happen again. it would be a failure for all of us. the commission's initiatives to facilitate the raising of funds are well known. and if that is so, if that is how it should be, then that also means that regional policy will not be and cannot be the source of funding for those budget headings which are chronically underfunded - as we said when we negotiated the financial perspective, and as has been fully confirmed - namely foreign policy: heading 1a and heading 3. if we continue to stand at the bottom of 1% of the budgets, we will of course not find a meaningful solution to the budgetary problem of the european union. in this report, which i am referring to, reimer böge raises the problem of adapting the mandate of parliament to the financial perspective. that is indeed the position of parliament. however, it is worth bearing in mind some concerns of cohesion countries, which are looking for predictability in cohesion policy and do not yet know exactly how the shortening of this period will affect this predictability in the acquisition of structural funds. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs dalia grybautskaite very much for her cooperation with parliament and, of course, wish her, as many speakers have wished her, good luck in the campaign. such a plurality, despite the diversity of political orientations, is a good thing in this election.
in writing. the review of the current financial framework provides a good opportunity to reflect not only on how the available funds are allocated, but also on the future shape of the eu budget. the main focus of the changes to the current financial perspective and the next one should be to deepen integration and to achieve specific objectives. recently, we have seen far-reaching changes in the structure of the eu budget. cap spending is no longer the largest part of the community's budget. at present, it is cohesion policy and actions related to the implementation of the lisbon strategy that can count on the most support. there is no doubt that this evolution is beneficial for the future of a europe with an innovation-oriented, knowledge-based economy and a high level of employment. however, this change cannot come at the expense of undermining europe's food security and reducing farmers' incomes. equally worrying is the progressive reduction in the level of the eu budget relative to the gni of the eu member states. statistics show that if the budget were to be maintained at the level of 1993-1999 (calculated as the same ratio to gdp) in the current perspective, an additional eur 200 billion would be available for the implementation of european policies. the pressure to reduce the community budget is harmful, since it limits its flexibility and ability to adapt to changing needs. i therefore call for the eu budget to be adapted to the new challenges not by shifting resources from the cap, but by increasing the union's budgetary resources accordingly.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to thank the house for the unanimity and the broad support that the commission's policy has found here. i think that is very important and also a very important signal to the workers in the automobile industry, who have been at the centre of this debate. and that's the way it should be. some members, mrs harms, mr hökmark and others, have been concerned with the link between innovation and competitiveness. i want to make this very clear again: without this link with innovation, the european automotive industry will not be able to be competitive in the long term. it is precisely the aim of our policy to ensure that the european car of the future is indeed the most innovative in the sense of being the cleanest, most energy-efficient and also the safest in the world. and i'm telling you, i also trust our manufacturers, our technicians and our engineers to do it. we have the potential to do this! so let us now turn to the second issue: financing in crisis. the banks don't. companies are not getting the loans they need. the european investment bank is now our all-purpose weapon. and i must tell you quite clearly that the european investment bank is already reaching the limits of what it can do. the automobile industry is not the only sector for which we are asking the eib for help. think of all the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. think about the funding of our very ambitious climate targets. the eib is running all of this. and i know today that we will have demands from industry later this year that the eib simply cannot meet because we want it to do sound banking and not create bubbles as others have done. the problems will therefore probably increase in the second half of the year, and we must indeed prepare for them. i also support all those who have spoken about the need for intelligent incentives to buy the cars we want to put on the market. and i expressly share mr groote's view on the co2-based vehicle tax. the commission has proposed this a long time ago and i am very sad that not all member states have followed this proposal so far. mrs de vits spoke about the role of the trade unions and works councils. i am very pleased to tell you that the last detailed conversation i had before coming to this meeting was with the chairman of the general motors board of directors in europe. we are in constant, regular contact, have a complete exchange of information. i would also like to say that so far i have benefited more from this exchange of information than the works council. they can tell me more than the other way around. but i hope i can give it back to them. we are going to have a consultation in a few days with the european metalworkers' and car makers' unions, and of course the unions are the main partners in the round tables i have already mentioned. so i think we've got all the wishes fulfilled. catch the eye was about the scrappage bonuses. in fact, one may wonder if such a thing will help in the long run. it may just as well be that it creates an artificial demand now and then a breakdown later. nevertheless, all the manufacturers were convinced of this idea because it helps to overcome the very difficult phase we are currently in. it is a kind of oxygen supply and it has contributed greatly to the fact that we have not seen mass redundancies in the major manufacturers in europe, but that the workforce has been kept so far. in that respect, i think it has served its purpose. the scrappage premium is harmonised at european level in the sense that there are clear rules which have been respected by all. what we cannot do is obvious: we cannot finance them from the community budget. it is not designed to do so and it would be politically and legally impossible. the premiums have positive effects across borders. and mrs roithová, your country in particular benefits greatly from the very generous premium systems in other european member states. so there is indeed a measure of european solidarity which should not be underestimated. i have taken the debate as a call to remain active on this issue, to remain on the ball on this issue. i can promise you that. and we have developed an excellent cooperation with the automotive industry. i hope that it will not be necessary to talk about the european automobile industry again during the term of office of this parliament, but if it should be necessary, the commission is ready at any time. thank you, thank you.
, in writing. it is good that the second debate on the crisis in the automotive sector confirms the conclusions of the european parliament which were presented in the february debate. our priority is to protect the competitiveness of the european union's internal market. we are concerned about attempts by some member states to take action which may result in a breach of the competition rules. we therefore welcome the decisions to establish a pan-european framework for action. in this context, the assessment of the impact of the situation of the industry in the united states and asia on the european market and the possible reactions of the community must also be maintained. we welcome the fact that the importance of stimulating the demand side of the market has been emphasised. balancing actions such as the launch of low-interest loans or the simplification of administrative procedures for raising funds, on the one hand, and the creation of incentives for consumers to buy new cars, on the other, may be aimed at stimulating the market. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were taken in breach of the principle of proportionality. we see the opportunity to create new quality products, based on new technologies, that are environmentally friendly and safe, and that respond to the challenges of the new trends of europe in the 21st century.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the ec regulation no 258/97 on novel foods is a good opportunity to explain what we are really talking about. is it really about healthy, safe food and protecting the health of consumers, or is it about protecting the interests of certain pressure groups and people for whom people and their health do not matter, and only money matters? if we are concerned about human health, we must ensure that consumers have reliable information about the origin and composition of food products. the information must include, among other things, what the product contains and in what quantities, whether it is organically healthy food, whether it is based on gmo products, whether and what additives it contains food enzymes, flavourings, what the country of origin is and whether it comes from, for example, cloned animals, although in my opinion cloning should be completely prohibited. to get to the heart of the matter, beyond the discussion, there is a need to put in place appropriate procedures for the authorisation and placing on the market of novel foods. procedures to protect consumers from the risk of eating unhealthy food and from misleading them. the rapporteur, ms liotard, has supported the commission's proposal on the need for transparency in the authorisation procedure for novel foods, although she has made a number of amendments, which shows her commitment to the report and is certainly worthy of recognition.
madam president! in the interests of consumers and in view of the impact of food on our health, i agree with the rapporteur that the objectives of the novel food regulations should be clearly defined. every effort should be made to ensure that the transparency and the effectiveness of the application of the novel food authorisation system ensure consumer safety and improve the functioning of the internal market. i believe that the current definition of novel food should be improved, taking into account the general principles and requirements of food law. i agree that food can only be introduced if it is not misleading to the consumer and is completely safe for the consumer and the nutritional value of the product cannot be lower. since these substances or mixtures thereof have not been used for human nutrition until now, particular caution should be exercised in any decision on their regulatory status. i support all actions that maintain a high level of food safety and those that take care of (...)
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report by mr blokland on the european parliament and council regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer is an important document for further action to protect the ozone layer. i would like to stress that the european parliament and the council have already succeeded in eliminating from production and trade gases containing fluorine and chlorine, halons, bromines and methyl which have an impact on ozone depletion and the greenhouse effect. a good example of what can be done is the work being done in the country where the ozone hole is located, i.e. new zealand. in addition to the measures taken in the european union, the country has undertaken work to reduce methane emissions, of which 1m3 has a greenhouse effect of 30m3 of co2 and depletes the ozone layer. methane is a gas produced by decay processes, by animals, released from the ground in mines, and also accompanies various chemical processes. due to the amount of methane generated for the atmosphere, this gas should also be considered in future work. the uen supports this regulation. i thank mr blokland for his very thorough and detailed report.
president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the last european council was a council of concrete results. i would like to pay tribute to the czech presidency, and in particular to prime minister mirek topolanek, who has firmly maintained the framework of the discussions by focusing them on concrete objectives. the result is a series of decisions which are important in themselves, but also decisions which say a great deal about the determination of europe today. the reality of our decisions shows the reality of our unity and challenges the pessimistic forecasts which, once again, have not proved to be correct. i shall concentrate on the economic aspects, and prime minister topolanek has already touched on most of them, so it is not necessary to go over all of them. first, the council supported the commission's proposal to allocate eur 5 billion to strategic energy projects and broadband internet. the agreement reached at the european council reflects the union's determination to use all the tools at its disposal and to do everything possible to prevent the crisis from undermining our long-term objectives, in particular in terms of energy security and the fight against climate change. the second major decision is to double the ceiling on support for member states' balance of payments: €50 billion, that is a very strong commitment. it proves that even in difficult times, solidarity is not a vain word in europe. the best way for europeans to end the crisis and return to growth is to coordinate their positions, act together and support each other. the third major decision shows that the union is fully involved in the effort to tackle the crisis at the global level. the budgetary impetus given to the european economy, including automatic stabilisers, is now approaching 4% of european gdp. but we added to that - during the european council - a commitment to support the imf up to 75 billion euros. the union is playing its full role, both in responding forcefully to the crisis and in putting in place an ambitious and forward-looking regulatory reform agenda. indeed, the european union has set an example of unity and leadership which, if followed, will show the way to broader solutions at the global level. the debate we had yesterday with the british prime minister, gordon brown, demonstrated this. the european union is approaching the london summit with a strong and coherent agenda, based on four pillars: a strong and coordinated economic stimulus, an ambitious regulatory agenda, a strong message against all forms of protectionism and a sustained commitment to the millennium development goals, especially for the world's poorest. it is a leadership agenda and i think it is important to stress it anyway because it was not obvious at the beginning that the position of the member states, who will be participating in the london summit, and of the commission, would actually be the message of the whole union of 27 member states, who want to keep this leadership position for a new approach at the global level. this is not a technocratic agenda. the challenge is to inject back into the economic system, and in particular into the overall financial system, the ethical values without which the market economy cannot function. we must put people back at the centre of the global economy. we are for open and competitive economies, but we are for economies where markets serve the citizens. that is why i support angela merkel's ambitious proposal for a charter for a sustainable economy. it reminds us that we are in favour of a social market economy. but the european council also looked beyond the crisis. in the field of external relations, i welcome the support given by the twenty-seven to the commission's proposals for the development of the eastern partnership, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in depth at the eastern partnership summit on 7 may. with the union for the mediterranean we now have a coherent framework for our neighbourhood policy, which is probably one of the first priorities of the union's external relations. mr president, we now need to keep up the momentum on the work of economic recovery; on the eur 5 billion there is a real urgency. this investment is critical in these difficult times. we all know that the credit crunch has had a direct impact on strategic projects. there are some challenges, particularly the possibility of a freeze on oil and gas connections. it has put the brakes on investment in renewable energy. it has also put research on clean technology on hold. therefore, we need to have a clear european response. i know that this parliament is committed to moving this matter forward with speed, and i hope that your own examination of the proposals will enable you to enter into swift negotiations with the council so that they can become law by may. the same is true of the package of existing and forthcoming measures on the financial system. for parliament and the council to secure first reading agreement on these measures before the election recess would send a powerful message that the eu knows what it has to do to restore order to the financial system. this is a key building block in restoring confidence, and this is why the commission will continue to adopt the proposals as set out in its communication of 4 march 2009 on hedge funds and private equity, on executive pay and on how to follow up on the ideas set out in the report of the high-level group i have established under the leadership of mr de larosière. in fact, this report was warmly welcomed at the european council and it was unanimously considered the basis for further work. i am very happy with that result. we also need to continue to deepen the work of coordination. coordination is key coordination and implementation. the guidelines we have set out on impaired assets and on support to the car sector are already being used to direct member states' action most effectively. now we are in the implementation phase of the recovery plan, the commission will be stepping up its work to monitor how national stimulus announcements are being carried through into action. we have some instruments. we also have the instruments of the lisbon strategy that remain in force. we will also look closely at the various national measures being taken to address the crisis and stimulate demand, to see what can be learned and how we can help. the same spirit should inspire us as we prepare for the employment summit. i have said it before in this parliament: this crisis is causing real hardship, and this is nowhere more visible than the impact on the jobs market. unemployment is rising and most likely will go on rising. this is my number one concern, and i think it should be the number one concern in europe. workers all over europe must know that european leaders care. that is why the special summit on employment early may is so important: to take stock of the impact of the recovery measures so far, to see what is working and what is not working, and to exchange best practices and agree on further necessary steps. we need to make sure that all levers are mobilised at local, regional, national and european level to cushion the impact of the crisis and prepare people for the jobs of the future. we must, in particular, make the most of what we can do to complete the member states' action through the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. as you will know, the european council decided that the summit should take place in a troika format. to be open and frank with you as i always am i was disappointed with this decision. i would have preferred all 27 member states to devote the time necessary to discuss together the best way forward on what is after all the key issue for european citizens in this crisis: the employment situation. of course, we know that most of the instruments are at national level, but that should not be a reason for european leaders not to discuss at european level the way in which they can coordinate their actions. we also know that, when we take decisions regarding the financial sector, or when we adopt a recovery plan, these are also measures for employment. but i think the subject of employment deserves attention to itself, on its own merits, from european leaders. be that as it may, the commission is fully mobilised and set to deliver a strong message on 7 may 2009. i personally believe that this summit, which it was decided to hold in a troika format, should be kept open so that all prime ministers who wish to participate should have the opportunity to do so. i would like to tell you, as prime minister topolánek did, that just before the european council we had a very important discussion with the social partners, together with the prime minister of sweden, mr reinfeldt, and the prime minister of spain, mr zapatero. i think we saw the willingness of the social partners to engage with us. it is important to send that message to all europeans, and specifically to all workers in europe, that we at european level also care about a social dialogue. we have invited the social partners to come to the commission. we have organised a meeting in the college of commissioners, and i am determined to continue working with the social partners, the european parliament, the governments of europe, the presidency, of course, and also with the committee of the regions, and the social and economic committee because i really believe that, in facing this problem of employment, we need a european mobilisation not only of governments and the european institutions but also of the social partners and all our societies. i am determined that we should have all possible options on the table. that is why the commission will be devoting special efforts in the coming weeks to working with all our partners, and i would very much welcome the full participation of members of the european parliament and of this parliament as an institution. you have a wealth of knowledge about action on the ground. in short, this was a european council that took very important decisions on economic and financial matters these are very concrete results. but it was in no sense the end of a process. we need to keep up the momentum of the process. we need to be open to everything we have to do in the face of a crisis that will have, specifically, more impact on social matters. it is important that we retain this determination and that, through coordination and implementation, europe will be able not only to respond to the challenge internally but also to make an important contribution to the global response to this crisis of very great dimensions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by congratulating prime minister topolanka on the excellent preparation of the european union summit and the very good presidency so far. a few months ago, many politicians doubted whether the small central and eastern european country could shoulder the burden of the presidency of the european union. prime minister topolanek and his entire cabinet have proven that it is possible. i congratulate you once again and, at this difficult time for you, because of your internal difficulties, i hope that you will resolve these difficulties and that you will also prepare the next european union summit in three months' time. but since we're among friends, we must speak honestly. i would like to say a few things about this summit that i find critical, although my criticism does not apply to prime minister topolanka personally. i will start with support for the eastern partnership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in total, this amounts to just €20 million per year for each country involved in the project. is this really enough for the union to build its influence in the region? speaking of our eastern partners, i'd like to ask what's been agreed on regarding visas for them? i don't think it was anything. in fact, the decision was taken to refuse any cooperation in this area. we have to ask ourselves, do we want to deter or encourage cooperation from our eastern neighbors? it seems that some member states are seeking to weaken the idea of the eastern partnership in order not to put themselves at risk from russia. for the same reason, we see obstruction when it comes to the nabucco pipeline. after all, the allocation of €200 million for this project at an estimated construction cost of €8 billion will only bring a smile of pity to the faces of our partners. i would remind you that for the sake of our own energy security, we should first of all be concerned with building a canal that would transport energy resources from the caspian sea region to europe, independent of the kremlin's will. the last summit also allocated €5 billion for the so-called anti-crisis package. some of this money is going to major energy projects, including €330 million for my country, poland. unfortunately, the very difficult condition was that the funds must be spent by the end of next year. these funds are now virtual, because knowing the rate of absorption of eu funds by the polish government, they may not be used and will disappear. that is why i am proposing to extend the time horizon for these funds. in discussing the last summit, i would also like to summarise the previous informal crisis summit in brussels, convened on the initiative of prime minister topolanka. well, the summit unanimously opposed economic protectionism. but a few days ago, we received proof that the decisions of this summit don't mean much. the french car manufacturer renault has announced that it is moving production from slovenia back to france. this shows, unfortunately, that in times of economic crisis the principle of solidarity, which is fundamental to the european union, is giving way to economic selfishness. i appeal to prime minister topolanka to fight this effectively.
mr. chairman, please! the last european council summit was a very busy one. one of them was the eastern partnership and alternative gas routes. the decision to allocate a small amount of funds to these purposes has been taken for the time being, but it is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. europe, faced with a huge economic crisis, must find effective ways out. but we cannot abandon the principle of solidarity which is our guiding principle. we should be particularly sensitive to the problems of new members of the union. although the summit has also raised the issue of global warming, the crisis we are facing has effectively pushed this extremely expensive pseudo-scientific project to the sidelines. the financial resources allocated to this purpose should be redirected to effectively tackle the effects of the crisis in solidarity. the internal situation in the czech republic should not interfere in any way with this.
mr. chairman, please! the summit can be seen in two time frames: the longer-term strategic action perspective, which includes the eastern dimension, including belarus. i believe that this is the right thing to do for the good of the union, for the good of our neighbours and for the future of our relations with russia. financial support is necessary and although it may be criticized in times of crisis, i am convinced that this eastern dimension is worth investing in. if the eastern strategy is successful, the union will emerge as a major player on the global political scene. it is not so much a question of its legal personality as of the fact that the results of joint action will be the reason for the further integration of europe. the second dimension is limited to the here and now, and therefore to the crisis, which is manifested, among other things, by the reduction in employment and the financial powerlessness of citizens. there is no one cure-all. but the concern for smes must be part of the broader strategy of governments and the union. first, because in a crisis, the worker only loses his job, and a bankrupt entrepreneur can lose both his job, his employees and his entire business. small businesses are the most resilient and perhaps the most able to navigate the difficult situation we have now, and as the most powerful economic force in europe, they have an impact on the whole economy. mr barroso, if the financial collapse turns into a mental collapse, then we are in a real crisis. as long as the motivation and will to act is alive among the citizens, we have a chance of getting things right, and in this area, action by the union is a very important element on which we will be held accountable. i wish us all results.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the czech presidency for the successful summit. i think the summit has come up with a number of important decisions, but at the same time i am of the opinion that we need more, and we need to move faster. when we go to the g20 meeting in london in a week’s time, i have the impression that we are still too integrated to act alone and too divided to act together. i see three main priorities that we should focus on. the first, of course, is jobs. millions of people in europe are afraid of losing their jobs and, frankly, i do not understand the position of the french president in opposing the summit: a fully fledged summit is something we need at this moment. second, i am happy that we managed to eliminate – partly, at least – protectionist tendencies. nevertheless, they are still alive, and i think solidarity is the key. the third point: the key is to restore confidence in the markets. i am not even of the opinion that there is too little money in the market; i think there is enough money. the problem is to transform this money into effective demand, and for that to happen we need to restore confidence among households and enterprises.
in writing. my country, poland, is particularly interested in the good management of the new eu programme, the eastern partnership. it concerns our neighbours, both those closest to us, such as belarus, ukraine and moldova, and those further afield, such as armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. i believe that through partnership we will strengthen the eu's external policy, bring about genuine economic integration between the union and its eastern partners and ensure cooperation based not only on the principles of a market economy but also on respect for common values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we have specific, common objectives: the creation of free trade areas, the promotion of mobility of citizens in the partner countries, the improvement of administrative capacity, cooperation in the field of energy security, especially in the long-term supply and transit of energy. so we have a clear vision of partnership from the eu side. we are now awaiting responses from the six countries directly concerned. i hope that on 7 may this year the european council will formally launch this initiative, which is as important for the eu as it is for the citizens of all the countries involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the ec/cariforum economic partnership agreement. the allegations that have been made that caribbean countries were pressured and forced to sign the agreement are false. i was able to see this for myself when i attended the first regional meeting of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly with the countries of the caribbean region. the representatives of the negotiators and the authorities of the caribbean states stated very clearly that they signed the agreement of their own free will, in the belief that it was beneficial for all parties. the pressure was real, but it was a time pressure that affected all parties to the deal. in addition, the need to sign new economic partnership agreements was a result of provisions independent of the european union, and this had been known for many years.
in writing. − the automotive industry is in a particularly difficult situation in the current economic crisis. the forecasts for this year are not optimistic either. they indicate that there will be a further decline in new car sales. the european commission and the european parliament consider that industry has the main responsibility for dealing with the crisis. but it is the industry in particular that should respond to the structural problems of production efficiency and capacity utilisation in a way that improves competitiveness and sustainability in the long term. action at eu and member state level can only support actions undertaken by producers themselves. in particular, these are actions to restore access to finance on reasonable terms, stimulate demand for new vehicles, protect skill and employment levels and minimise social costs. a number of countries have adopted plans to help the automotive sector, but as the european commission notes, these must be in line with eu law and the applicable competition rules, and in particular the rules on state aid, in order not to disrupt the functioning of the european internal market. any financial, tax or scrapping measures must also support and accelerate the necessary technological transformation of the sector, in particular in the field of energy efficiency of engines and emission reductions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i don't think there's a single major international problem that we can solve alone. this is not just about iran or iraq or afghanistan. the very principles of the international order are being shaken today by international terrorism. reforms are required by the geneva conventions to better address the threat of statelessness. despite the optimistic declarations, the future of nato is now in question. if the alliance is to remain a guarantee of our security, european countries must renew their political and military commitment. but our cooperation should be pragmatic - we should recognize that america is a different but equally legitimate model of democracy and moderate our approach to international law, the international criminal court and the death penalty.
mr. chairman, please! the presidential election in the united states has ushered in a new era in the history of relations with this country and a new era in this country. i hope that from the united states' side, it will be an evolutionary change, not a revolutionary one. i am concerned about the strange, growing relationship between the united states and russia at the expense of international agreements with some european countries, such as poland and the czech republic, for example on the issue of the missile shield, in which the united states is withdrawing from previous commitments made to these countries. we must also remember the visas which the united states still holds for certain member states. this should not be the case in the transatlantic relationship between the union and the united states. the strengthening of transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism, based on respect for international law in particular, must be a particularly important issue. as barack obama said, "no nation, no matter how big or powerful, can meet global challenges alone". let us remember this in this house too, because i often think we think that the european union alone can meet this global challenge.
mr. chairman, please! in his speech, mr mon, the commissioner and the minister presented the possible solutions, strategies and objectives that should guide us in our cooperation with the united states. i wanted to return to another reflection and share it. i think that barack obama's campaign slogan the change we need also applies to us europeans. i'm talking about changing our relationship with the united states. on the one hand, admiration for the wealth, economy, science, film, music and freedom of this historically young society, and on the other, dislike and even hostility on the part of many left-wing mps in particular to american politics, to american religiosity, to american capitalism. ironically, russia is a constant friend, no matter what they do, including the worst acts, such as killing journalists, and the americans are a partner dressed in the enemy suit. he helped liberate europe from the nazis, but he didn't have to make such a sacrifice. he did it willingly. he helped rebuild europe, and yet he didn't make a living as a permanent coalition partner. so i am talking about proper measurement and evaluation, consistent with common sense, and not just with a correct and just ideology as if echoing from moscow's provincialism. what is wrong or wrong in the united states must remain so, what is good and has a chance of achieving our union's objectives must be appreciated. cooperation must be based on reality and at the same time on a firm will to solve problems together. of the many speeches, applause, amendments and whole resolutions proposed by the left over the four years i have had the opportunity to see, there was often a negative, generalized attitude not necessarily supported by facts. and the last sentence, mr. president, is that barack obama is only the president of a nation, a nation worth working with, a nation that protects values that are important to us.
(microphone off initially) (...) is the title of president barack obama's address to the g20 summit in london. the economic crisis has become a challenge for the whole world, but also an opportunity to deepen, to re-formulate transatlantic relations. the report by mep millán mona sets out the strategic aspects of the partnership between the european union and the united states. it is a good example of the importance which the european parliament attaches to transatlantic relations. this new chapter in eu-us relations should also be used to increase the activity of eu institutions in the united states. i am thinking of the european institutions, the european universities, the european foundations. it is time to reformulate our partnership, to show europe in washington itself, in the united states, the potential of the present european union, the potential of european science, european culture, european civilization. we should take advantage of the fact that there is a new president in the united states, a president who shows the america that europe has always seen before it as a symbol of democracy and freedom.
mr. chairman, please! for 50 years after the war, the foundation of security thinking in western europe was a close alliance with the united states and the principle that security is indivisible, that the security of the united states is closely linked to the security of europe. it seems that the end of the cold war and the removal, hopefully in the foreseeable future, of a possible major conflict in europe, makes this principle not to be questioned, but to be upheld. this should be the foundation of our thinking about our common security. and the second thing i would like to say is what mr kuhne was saying a moment ago. namely, the united states has ended the period of unilateral political action, is ready for dialogue with europe, and is ready to make joint decisions with europe. the question is, are we prepared to do so and are we prepared to make sure that these jointly agreed decisions are implemented in a credible way?
mr president, the election of president obama was met with enthusiasm in both the usa and in europe, but a great deal is expected of the 44th president of the usa. he faces a range of challenges which no peacetime leader of that nation in living memory has been expected to tackle. he has a financial and economic crisis at home, bordering on a meltdown of financial markets, that has impacted the world economy and is a still a long way from being resolved. he has committed himself to finding a solution for war-torn afghanistan and for the spill-over effect it is having into pakistan. he faces the danger of an iran which is coming ever closer to being a nuclear power. we believe in a strong transatlantic relationship based on our common values of democracy and the free market economy. we respect the priorities that president obama and his new administration have set themselves. we are not offended if the us sees that some of these aims will only be achieved with the cooperation of the us and russia. europe is extending an open hand to the united states. just a few weeks ago in this chamber we declared our openness to work together to close guantánamo bay and resettle former inmates. member states from the former eastern bloc have a particular debt of gratitude to the united states. we were brought into the transatlantic community several years before becoming members of the eu. poland, for its part, has reflected this gratitude by a willingness to support the us whenever needed, including military engagement in iraq and afghanistan. i appeal to the new administration not to take this support entirely for granted. a younger generation of poles raised in a democracy has quickly forgotten this debt of gratitude. in realising its wider aims, the us should not forget that these loyal allies have sensitivities, especially when it presses the us-russia reset button.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the issue of ratification of the agreement with turkmenistan is a contentious one due to the violation of democratic principles and fundamental human rights by the turkmen side. nevertheless, we should talk to that country and we should sign an agreement with that country. in relations with turkmenistan, particular attention should also be paid to the fact that the absence of economic cooperation between the union and turkmenistan will lead to a deterioration in the living standards of this nation. ratification of the convention could certainly raise the standard of living of its citizens. let us remember that there have already been some positive social developments. the recent adoption by turkmenistan of legislation banning child labour is one such signal. of course, turkmenistan has yet to ratify and implement many ilo conventions this is beyond dispute. what is worrying is that the pace of change in turkmenistan has been slower than we expected. few enterprises have been privatised, the government still exercises tight control over many sectors of the economy, and foreign direct investment remains very low. although turkmenistan has some of the largest natural gas reserves and is one of the largest cotton exporters, about half of the population - and let's keep this in mind here - lives in poverty, i would say extreme poverty. the political system also leaves much to be desired, especially in terms of the continued repression of political parties other than the ruling ones, as well as the repression of various religious groups. in spite of all this, i think that we should conclude and ratify the agreement with turkmenistan, because only by talking to them and setting an example for turkmenistan can we give them a hand and make it possible for this country to join the family of democratic countries in the future.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful to the members of this parliament for the opportunity to provide an update on developments in belarus, and in particular to report on the outcome of last monday’s discussion on this issue in council. as many of you will be aware, following the council’s decision last october to suspend temporarily and partially the visa-ban list, we have seen a number of positive developments in belarus. i would point in particular to the registration of the ‘for freedom’ movement and of the centre for chernobyl initiatives, the printing and distribution of independent newspapers such as narodnaya volya and nasha niva, the round table on regulation of the internet with the osce representative on the freedom of the media, the ongoing expert consultations with osce/odihr on improving electoral legislation, and the establishment of consultative councils, including one on human rights issues, which brings together representatives of civil society and even the opposition. these steps, whilst they might appear relatively minor to some, are significant in the belarusian context. this has been acknowledged by some representatives of civil society in belarus. however, there have also been incidents which are a cause for our concern. the important human rights ngo, viasna, has been denied registration, there are problems with the accreditation of some of the independent media, and, while there is less harassment against civil society and opposition activists than earlier, short-term detentions continue to take place. we are also following closely complaints from the opposition over ‘forcible conscription’ to the army. se we cannot deny that the picture is mixed. nevertheless, we are convinced that there is a need to continue with a policy of engagement and to support the positive developments. this should be the way forward in our relations with belarus. we must keep in mind our wider strategic interests in the region as well as the impact of the financial crisis when we consider our future policy direction. these were the considerations which lay behind our decision on 16 march. this decision, while extending for one year the restrictive measures, maintains the suspension of the application of the travel restrictions imposed on certain officials of belarus for nine months. the in-depth review foreseen by the end of this nine-month period will concentrate on the five areas set out in the council’s conclusions of october 2008. these are electoral reform and other concrete actions towards respect for democratic values, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and of the media, and freedom of assembly and political association. we firmly believe that the continuation of the suspension agreed last week will enable us to pursue our policy objectives. it will provide us with the opportunity to continue to raise with our belarusian partners developments which concern us in the field of human rights. the launching, in the coming month, of a human rights dialogue will be particularly important. following the lifting of the ban on bilateral political contacts, a number of high-level visits have taken place, including a ministerial troika at the end of january. the aim of these various contacts has been to encourage belarus, and to create understanding over differences in expectations. we hope that the dialogue will continue over the coming months. we are convinced that we need to be constructive with minsk. we remain realistic and do not expect any dramatic changes. transformation takes time, and it is in our shared interest to take every opportunity to encourage further positive developments. it is important that our policy of engagement has been openly supported by representatives of civil society in belarus, who took part recently in a very helpful discussion with members of this parliament. we also maintain regular contacts with the representatives of belarusian civic society and we intend to continue this dialogue as well as our support to civic society and the independent media in belarus. let me close with a few words on the eastern partnership, which was endorsed last week by the european council, and will be launched at a summit-level meeting in may. belarus is one of the six eastern partnership countries. we strongly believe that belarus should be involved in this new initiative from the outset. but the extent of its participation in the bilateral track will depend on a number of factors, in particular progress in some of the areas to which i have just referred. i am grateful to the public support which parliament has given to the outcome of the council last monday. clearly the in-depth review to be conducted in nine months’ time will be a key to any further decisions, and will have an important bearing on our future relations with belarus more generally. the council is very ready to continue to keep this parliament informed of developments, and welcomes the opportunity for you to continue to contribute to this debate.
member of the commission. - mr president, belarus is at a crossroads. we are in fact on the eve of a council decision confirming the temporary suspension of the stay ban until the end of the year and we are on the eve of the adoption of a resolution by the european parliament. it is time to take an initial stocktaking of our policy towards belarus after six months of sanctions suspension since october 2008 and to reflect on the prospects for the next nine months. i am personally convinced that the decision taken by the european union last october to suspend sanctions was the right one and that this suspension has indeed triggered a positive process. belarus has taken steps which are undeniably in the direction of more democracy. i am thinking in particular of the return of two independent newspapers to the newsstands, the fact that mr milinkevich's own organisation has finally been legalised, the cooperation with the osce/odihr on electoral legislation, the various congresses of opposition parties or ngos - such as the union of poles in belarus - that have been able to take place. the commission has already made some progress in this area, but it is not yet clear whether it will be able to take action in the future. that is why the european union's response to this mixed assessment was mixed, with the balanced decision taken at the last cagre. the extension of the suspension of sanctions allows us to maintain dialogue, as civil society itself has expressly asked us to do, including at the forum held in the european parliament no later than 4 march. at the same time, we retain our leverage as sanctions can be reintroduced at the end of the year if we consider that the progress made by then is insufficient, and we will continue our review by remaining attentive to the situation on the ground as to whether progress is being made in the five key areas identified by the cagre conclusions last october. and through our delegation in minsk, the commission is actively involved in analysing the situation on the ground. i welcome the initiative of the european parliament to send a delegation of parliamentarians from afet and the european parliament's delegation for relations with belarus to minsk in ten days' time to discuss with the authorities and the various parties and to get a better idea of the situation on the ground. i am also sending my regional director at the same time, who will work closely with the european parliament delegation. and the establishment of a new human rights dialogue with belarus is another welcome step forward, which will allow us to better structure our demands and deepen our discussions. the first session of this dialogue is due to take place in the coming days in minsk, and the european union will put all the issues on the table. we will meet with civil society before and after this dialogue to benefit from their expertise. the development of our relations with this neighbour at the heart of europe requires that we take the time to consider a longer-term response to belarus' progress. a response that will bring belarus closer to our european family and its values, and to do this, as our president said, the european council last friday decided to welcome belarus to the eastern partnership, and more specifically to its multilateral component, the platforms. this partnership will be an opportunity for belarus to develop new networks of solidarity and exchange with all its neighbours, including belarusian civil society, which wants to break its isolation and participate in the civil society forum. the text of the commission proposal is unambiguous as regards belarus' participation in the bilateral part of the eastern partnership. the development of bilateral relations between the european union and belarus is and will remain conditioned by the evolution of the political situation in the country. finally, in the light of the financial and economic crisis which is also affecting all our neighbours to the east, i am personally in favour of economic support measures for belarus. a first significant step has been taken by the imf, with the active support of its european members, namely a loan of 2 billion us dollars to deal with the immediate effects of the crisis, precisely to put an end to the balance of payments. and the next step should allow belarus to access eib loans and broader ebrd loans to finance projects related to trans-european networks, while helping to diversify the country's economic ties. in parallel, the commission is strengthening its technical dialogues with belarus in areas of common interest such as energy, transport, customs, standards and norms, and later the economy. in conclusion, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, parliament will be adopting a resolution on belarus next week and the commission will be very attentive to your recommendations, and i very much hope that we will continue to cooperate closely in our assessment of the situation in the coming months and in our dialogue with belarus, its authorities and civil society, and i hope that this first step will lead us to a deeper mutual commitment based on concrete progress.
on behalf of the alde group. when some sanctions against belarus were lifted, we hoped that the process of softening the system would go a little further. but it turns out that's not true. my predecessors have already spoken about this, but i would like to remind you that no other political parties have been registered, the threat of de-registration of existing parties has not been removed, newspapers that could have obtained the right to use colporteurism have not obtained this right, cyber attacks on websites such as the websites of radio free europe are recurring. in addition, president lukashenka decided to leave minsk and therefore the visit of ms ferrero-waldner could not take place. i think it is not a friendly gesture and does not show that he respects and recognises the importance of relations with the european union. president lukashenko did not recognize abkhazia and ossetia, but he visited abkhazia and it seems that there will be close economic cooperation between the two partners - i will not say countries, because abkhazia is not a country for us. as for the opposition, president lukashenko calls it the "fifth column" and there is no sign of any willingness to recognize it, as in any country, as an important element of the political opposition. i think that there is still some dialogue to be had in this regard. i agree with what mr tannock said about president lukashenko not being allowed to visit prague. that would be going a bit too far, but we really need to make much more efficient use of another instrument we have, namely the financial instrument in the form of funds for the development of democracy and the economy. and in this regard, i would like to ask what funds were not allocated last year and in 2007 but spent on supporting democracy in belarus, excluding funds for radio.
on behalf of the uen group. - i'm not going to tell you. the experiment with lifting sanctions against belarus must continue so that we can explore all possibilities for dialogue with this country. the belarusian authorities must be aware, however, that the time for this experiment is limited, that we will not wait with the offer indefinitely. we also have to be very careful. the first few months give us a very vague picture of the intentions of the authorities in minsk. at the same time, repression of the union of poles in belarus continues, catholic priests are being expelled, and belsat tv - the only independent television station reaching belarus - has been refused registration of its office in minsk. this is reason enough why, in line with the appeals of the belarusian opposition, we should not invite alexander lukashenko to the eu summit.
mr president, prime minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you down. i agree with you that the council's decision to extend the sanctions against belarus for one year and to suspend them for nine months is a sensible solution. we invite belarus to cooperate, but we do not forget that it is still the last country in europe governed undemocratically. despite the positive changes that have taken place in belarus recently, as prime minister vondra has said, it cannot be said that fundamental human rights such as freedom of speech, the right to express political views and respect for national and religious minorities are respected there. nevertheless, we offer belarus participation in the eastern partnership because we believe that it will benefit the belarusian people first and foremost. the eastern partnership offers a chance for cheaper visas, better economic cooperation and financial support for civil society. such could be the benefits of a new policy that ends belarus' long-standing isolation. on the cost side, however, there will undoubtedly be a cynical use of our goodwill to lend credibility to this undemocratic power. the belarusian government, which controls the main mass media and uses them not for information but for propaganda, is already triumphantly declaring that the european union accepts the so-called belarusian model, in which democracy and freedom can be limited. at this point we must state unequivocally: belarusians have the same rights as citizens of other free european countries, including the right to demonstrate freely in minsk today, on the 91st anniversary of their independence. the participation in the eastern partnership is intended to help them to realize these rights, and if the belarusian authorities stand in the way of this, they cannot count on partnership relations with the west, especially those at the high level that prime minister vondra mentioned, and especially when we think of the prague summit in may on the eastern partnership. as long as political activists are in detention in belarus, as long as young democratic opposition activists are forcibly conscripted into the army, as long as demonstrations are forcibly dispersed with the help of the militia, and as long as independent journalists are punished for their words and publications, the leaders of the belarusian state have no right to expect a partnership approach from european leaders, the council, the commission and our parliament.
it is important to continue to work towards building new relations between the union and belarus. the fundamental rights of belarusian citizens must be respected, as it is unacceptable that in this day and age rights such as freedom of expression, of opinion, of the right to vote or of an independent judiciary should not be respected. i therefore share the philosophy of encouraging belarus to make every effort towards democracy and welcome the decision to include belarus in the new programme to strengthen the union's eastern policy within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. i believe this will help belarus to achieve stability and security and to raise the living standards of its citizens. the community should continue to provide financial assistance to regions in need and to intervene when citizens' rights are violated. i repeat, intervene when citizens' rights are being violated.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in discussing the crimes of totalitarian regimes, much attention is given to their victims, and surprisingly little to those who gave their lives fighting nazism and communism. i would like to remind you once again of a man who should become a symbol of unbreakable attitude and resistance to totalitarianism - corporal witold pilecki. he volunteered to go to the auschwitz death camp to organize the resistance and gather information about the mass murders. he managed to escape, only to be shot in the back of the head a few years later by soviet torturers. that is why i once again call for may 25th, the date of his execution, to be made the international day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism, because many unknown people who, like pilecki, lost their lives in the fight for fundamental rights and freedoms, deserve to be remembered. and another thing, yesterday we celebrated in the parliament the day of hand-winding ice cream, yes, the day of hand-winding ice cream, so i don't understand why may 25th can't be a date to commemorate the heroes of the fight against totalitarianism?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to begin my speech by quoting a poem by osip mandelstam, one of the greatest russian poets of the 20th century. i shall quote this passage in the language in which it was written, i.e. russian (the member then speaks in russian). those are terrible words. osip mandelstam was sentenced to exile for this poem. he died on his way to the right spot under vladivostok. in december 1938, his body was laid in a communal grave. osip mandelstam is a symbol of the millions of victims of 20th century totalitarianism on the european continent. europe today should remember the victims of 20th century totalitarianism around the world. those victims are today the foundation of our memory, the lasting spiritual foundation of european democracy. and at the same time, we see the entire history of the 20th century. we remember the victims of authoritarian regimes, the victims of european countries, of nationalist and militaristic regimes in spain, portugal and greece. i would like to draw your attention to a seminar that is being held in our group, in the socialist group, and to a book that will be published by our group on the problem of history and politics. we want to deal with this problem seriously. we oppose the manipulation of this memory, the insulting of this memory in such a way that it becomes today the path of ideological struggle, of party struggle in the european political system. we remember those victims. the victims of 20th century totalitarianism are to be the foundation of today's european democracy.
madam president! it is sometimes said that nazi totalitarianism originated on the right and communist totalitarianism on the left. it's not accurate. racial hatred and class hatred are just two varieties of the same hatred that wrecks people's consciences and social relations. we heard one of those statements just now, mr. paphilis's. hatred breeds slavery, and slavery is the denial of the republic, democracy and the rule of law. the left and the right are both in a democratic system. nazi and communist totalitarianism destroyed democracy, so neither nazism was on the right, nor communism on the left. nazism and communism were all around. anyone who today trivializes the criminal nature of totalitarianism, whether nazi or communist, is standing in opposition to the tradition of the rule of law and democracy. it is characteristic that while the european right does not today relativise the crimes of the nazis, the european left relativises the crimes of the communists, as is clearly shown by the attitude of the socialists and the communists to the draft resolution on this matter which we have negotiated today. we in this chamber are not voting on the truth about history, we are voting on the truth about ourselves, about our moral judgments. (laughter)
madam president! when i hear in this room that the communists will not lower their heads despite the tens of millions of victims of the construction of the belyamor canal, the millions of siberian exiles from many nations (including russians, the poles themselves must be counted in millions), the condemnation of entire nations to death, even the crimean tatars, i am amazed and outraged. corporal pilecki, who went to auschwitz as a volunteer, and was later imprisoned by the communists, told his wife, "auschwitz was a game". my country was hit by both totalitarianisms and is still healing. no system like this has a right to exist. we should honor those who fought against totalitarianism, we should honor the memory of their victims.
madam president! the european community must do its utmost to preserve the memory of the heroes and not allow the trivialization of totalitarian crimes. the fate of those who resisted and were murdered, like pilecki, should be particularly close to us, also because it was among the anti-nazis and anti-communists that the idea of european integration was born, which would prevent future conflicts and the development of totalitarian regimes after the end of the war. the organisation of the international day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism would be a step towards a common understanding of 20th century european history, combating mutual prejudices and ignorance of historical facts. the fact that europeans remember the crimes of totalitarian regimes - nazi and communist - gives us hope that our continent will never again be the scene of such tragic events.
madam president! sógor's suggestion to establish a day of history for the victims of totalitarianism is very correct. why would you do that? while the nazi horror is somehow familiar - even some germans tried to digest it - paradoxically, little is known about stalinism, and the paradox is that even the siberians in his own country thought stalin was a good man, and something else was wrong in russia. we will never hear of the millions who lost their lives in siberia, nor will we know their suffering, but i know of one man who is still alive. this person has a feeling, even walking down the street, that they're already dead. it's a symptom of being in siberia. those who survived know what it was like to suffer. and the russian saying (then the mp speaks in russian) in polish if you were not there, you will be there, and if you were there, you will not forget. i think we should talk openly about both of these totalitarianisms.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the problem with totalitarianism in europe is that the experience of individual member states in this area is very diverse. many europeans simply do not know what life was like under totalitarian regimes. and someone who doesn't understand totalitarianism has a natural tendency to dismiss the crimes that are committed within such systems. rather, he sees it as a series of events in the course of a historical process. communism and fascism, on the other hand, not only actively opposed most european values, but were willing to break all ethical rules in the name of sick, degenerate ideas. and they did break those rules, causing pain, suffering and death to millions of people. the more europeans know about the true face of totalitarianism, the better for the future of the european union. this is not about empathizing with the suffering of millions of people. it's about understanding the dramatic consequences that have resulted from and continue to result from totalitarian practices in many countries in europe. solidarity, freedom, empathy, tolerance, dialogue - all these values look a little different when you look at them through the lens of the experience of totalitarianism. let's keep that in mind. the establishment of an international day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism would undoubtedly help raise awareness of the painful past. this in turn would help to reduce prejudice, to reduce stereotypes and to increase hope that we will never again experience totalitarianism in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on my suggestion, encouraging computer software manufacturers to take additional measures blocking access to pornographic and violent websites. this is a matter of particular concern to parents. it is a fact of life that our children are often more computer literate than we are. parents may be vaguely aware of the fact that they can activate filters in internet browsers, but this demands a modicum of knowledge of browser software, as well as a conscious decision to activate the system. if, by default, the filter was pre-installed in the ‘on’ position, it is probable that many more children – including the youngest, who increasingly use the internet unsupervised – would be protected from unwittingly stumbling on sites which have a damaging influence on them. i appeal to manufacturers to respond to our suggestion. they should not see this as an imposition or a restriction but rather as a marketing opportunity. if i had the choice between buying two comparable computers and saw one displaying a child-friendly label, confirming that filters had been pre-installed, i as a parent would choose that product. in time, parents making such a choice would ensure that this became the industry standard. i truly hope that we can achieve this with the cooperation of the industry.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to a few problems with the internet. firstly, the protection of personal data and the protection of the secrecy of voting and voting via the internet to facilitate the exercise of civil rights by persons with disabilities. secondly, the protection of the copyright of artistic content that can be easily transmitted via the internet. another issue is the protection of children from harmful content, such as violent and pornographic scenes, through appropriate filtering and parental education. the fourth issue is the problem of protecting children from pedophiles and kidnappers, but also the opportunity to find criminals through their traces on the internet, such as the address of the pedophile or traces from crime videos made by mobile phones and posted on the internet. if the online statement of a young man in germany had not been ignored, his victims - the students and teachers he shot - would still be alive. the next issue, the first one, is respect for freedom of speech, and the law should be respected here just as in any other area. some of these problems require new technical solutions. i congratulate the rapporteur.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the oral question thus formulated on the follow-up to the statement made by the european union ministers for sport after their meeting in biarritz in november 2008 is justified. with the dynamic changes in society, there are also changes in sports. more and more of the problems of modern sport are left unaddressed and unresolved by the legislature. we are experiencing a crisis of values in sport, with the spread of doping and trafficking of young athletes, among other things. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, ministers rightly called for young athletes to be able to combine education and training and for greater efforts to be made to ensure an appropriate institutional framework. the proposed facilities for young athletes in sporting competition are good, but they must not lead to the blocking of other athletes who are achieving much better sporting results. so there are a lot of threats and doubts. these threats are global in nature and therefore reasonable coordination at community level in the form of a consultative framework is acceptable, if not absolutely necessary. but there's always the question of the details. with regard to the second part of the oral question, it can be said that all top-down institutional coordination is marked by the handing over of power to the national states. you must not give in to this temptation.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we are debating today the extremely important issue of the food distribution programme to the most needy in the community. it is important because it affects many millions of people who live in poverty and need special support. we support the european commission's proposal to increase funding by 2⁄3, i.e. from eur 305 million to almost half a billion per year, and to expand the range of products delivered under this programme. of course, this programme will not solve the problem of malnutrition and poverty among the community's citizens, but it will certainly help to reduce it. we are opposed to the proposal to introduce, and i repeat it now, cofinancing from national budgets, because this could limit or even exclude certain countries from participating in this programme. this would be particularly true in countries with low per capita incomes and budgetary problems. this is all the more important in the context of the ongoing economic crisis. i believe we can work out a compromise in the council. we also want the food products distributed under this programme to come from the european union. if possible, it should be fresh local food. in this way, we will support local food producers by increasing demand. we also gain confidence that the food we receive is of the right quality. the legal basis for this program has been the subject of much controversy. as we know, the council's legal services have challenged the european commission's opinion. the commission can count on the support of the european parliament in this matter. i agree with the commission on setting clear priorities and long-term planning. the extension of the programme to three years will have the effect of improving the efficiency of the expenditure of the available funds. by adopting this report today, the european parliament will send a positive signal to our citizens. if the european union is supporting the poorest countries in africa, which we of course support, it must also be mindful of its own citizens. the eu's food programme for the poorest in the european union, like the 'fruit in school' or 'milk in school' programmes, is changing attitudes towards the european union and the common agricultural policy, which has been criticised by many. our citizens should know that the food they receive comes from eu programmes, from eu funds. this programme is a confirmation that the european union feels a responsibility to help its citizens who are most in need. this group includes, in particular, the homeless, families with problems, the unemployed, single parents, migrants, asylum seekers, the elderly and those with a low material status. often, these are disabled people or even children. it should be borne in mind that the changes in the systems of the countries which have recently joined the union have led to a strong income stratification in their societies. moreover, in some of these countries, income and living standards are becoming more and more unequal. the poverty is particularly acute for families in small towns and for people living in rural areas. more and more people are unable to meet their basic food needs. given the impasse in the council - everyone is waiting for parliament's opinion - i am confident that the adoption of my report will convince the czech presidency to resume the discussion and find a reasonable compromise in the council. hopefully, the legislative work will be completed by may or june of this year. i would encourage those member states not participating in the programme to apply. finally, on behalf of the millions of citizens who benefit from this programme, the charities that distribute food and myself, i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament, and not just those who supported my report.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union is currently facing a situation of increasing social stratification. we have millions of people living in poverty, and the numbers are growing. this is despite the fact that the community and many of its member countries have been ruled for years by socialists who are said to be sensitive to poverty and inequality. the union itself was supposed to be an area of common prosperity. many naïve people believed it, and now comes the reflection. we must come to the aid of that part of the population of europe which is unable to cope with poverty and exclusion on its own. there are many such people in the countries of the old union, and even more in the new ones. in addition to the economic devastation caused by the crisis, the effects of the colonial approach of the old union countries to the businesses and banks of the new member states are also apparent. the factories are still being destroyed, just as the whole shipbuilding industry was destroyed in poland. a very good report by the member for ascher, on how to deliver food to those most in need. i fully agree with him and the community as a whole should finance aid to those in need and food should come exclusively from the countries of the union. this aid should go to orphanages, to homeless shelters, to hungry children in schools, and it should be distributed primarily by local governments, because they have the best sense of need and scale.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the food aid program is necessary today. in 2006, the rapporteur reports that in the countries of the old union alone, 43 million people were undernourished and 79 million people were at risk of poverty, more than 20% of the total population of the union. the program helped one in six people in need. the problem is therefore serious and has become even more acute since the recent enlargements of the union. statistics show that the program only alleviates but does not eliminate the problem of malnutrition. it's a program that treats the effects, but it doesn't eliminate the causes. is it not a paradox that the rural population is the one most at risk of poverty and malnutrition? those who should be producing food are benefiting from food aid, but it's not their fault, it's the result of policies. this is the result of a misguided agricultural policy that bankrupts family farms and increases the number of people in need of food aid. the 1997 sustainable european model of agriculture is a propaganda fiction. after all, family farms were supposed to be the key element in this model, and it's the other way around. these holdings are excluded, even though they represent at least 95% of all agricultural holdings in the european union. isn't it a paradox that the bulk of the money in agriculture is going to those who produce expensive? large animal farms that destroy the environment, while farms that produce cheaper, get symbolic support. the union's trade policy exposes us to price increases, and competition policy has led to monopolisation of sales and price inflation. it's time to change those policies. they have made food expensive, and they have increased the number of poor and malnourished citizens in the european union.
madam president! food and housing in many people's budgets account for over 90% of spending. keeping food prices as low as possible is of great social and humanitarian importance. poverty and malnutrition affected 79 million people in the union in 2006. now, as a result of the crisis and population growth, the problem has become more important, and the number of people in need of direct support in 2009 is certainly over 25 million. aid is an important element of the common agricultural policy, since it liquidates possible intervention stocks while maintaining food demand. i support the financing of food aid, especially from the union, supplemented by national measures as appropriate, the establishment of transparent aid rules, an increase of at least eur 200 million in the aid fund in 2009, the extension of the list of products and the establishment of rules for their purchase. the aid is of major political importance as it confirms the coherence of the union's action in favour of its citizens. i'd like to congratulate mr. akersky on his excellent report.
madam president! around 80 million people in the european union live in poverty, representing 16% of the union's population. the economic crisis threatens to enlarge this group. every day in warsaw i see a line of people waiting for a bowl of soup. that is why it is so important to maintain the continuity of the community programme for the provision of food to the poorest people. direct delivery of products will provide a more varied diet. however, the commission proposal includes a co-financing condition which may lead to the abandonment of aid for the poorest member states. this would be contrary to the objective of the programme, in particular to reduce economic and social disparities between regions, and would undermine the principle of solidarity. i hope the 17th, 18th, and 19th amendments will remove that flaw. i call on the european commission to develop a programme to address the structural causes, not just the effects, of poverty, and to monitor how much of this money is going to the poor and how much to the intermediaries. i congratulate the rapporteur.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the distribution of food to the most deprived persons is a very important area of union action. i therefore thank the commission for its proposal on this matter and mr ašerski for the report we are discussing today. member states have made tremendous progress in improving the quality of life of their citizens. however, poverty remains one of the major problems facing europe today. an estimated 43 million eu citizens are at risk of malnutrition - a shocking figure. the distribution program helps many of these europeans. i know not everyone likes him. i understand that there may be legal, economic, political doubts, but i would like to know what the alternative to this programme would be, especially since the food distribution programme also has a positive impact on the agricultural market, which is therefore more stable. the eu is a global leader in helping the world's poorest people. it is difficult to imagine that the community would at the same time stop supporting its own citizens who are in serious trouble, and i hope that the council will reach an agreement on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first of all, i would like to remind you that one of the main objectives of the common agricultural policy is to ensure that the people of the european union have access to food at reasonable prices, and that those who have little or no income also have access to food free of charge. secondly, the income situation of the people of the union, particularly in the new member states, leaves much to be desired. in all the newly admitted countries, the proportion of the population with an income below 40% of the eu average is as high as 50%, i.e. almost half of the people in these countries have such low incomes. these data on the income situation of the population are from before the crisis. the situation will only get worse in the coming years because of the effects of the crisis. i therefore support the continuation of the programme of free food distribution to the most deprived, for which the european union will allocate almost half a billion euro in 2009, including some 100 million euro for my country, poland. i hope that the czech presidency will finally agree on its shape in the council. (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone for all the comments. in general, i hear a very positive approach to the proposal for the most needy. mr president, could i just be allowed to focus on some of the comments that have been raised here today? first of all, i think that we have to keep in mind that poverty is not confined to certain areas or regions within the member states. unfortunately, it is an issue that all member states have to face. it is true that the extent of the problem and the means available to remedy it are not identical throughout the whole european community. the allocation of the budget to the member states, as well as the differentiated rates for cofinancing for cohesion and non-cohesion countries, does of course already take into account the financial capacity of every country. this means that the bottom line will be that there will more money available for the so-called ‘new’ member states than is the case today. regarding the budget, i would just remind you that we have actually increased the budget available for the programme for the most needy by two thirds – up to eur 0.5 billion – and i think this, together with the newly introduced cofinancing, will help alleviate some of the problems. i think we also have to keep in mind that this scheme is a voluntary one. member states that have a social system in place in their own country certainly need not use this scheme. we do not seek to replace social policies that are already implemented in member states and, to a certain extent, also managed by ngos. our intention is to underpin them by the provision of food, which i still consider the central aim of the agricultural policy. i believe that the changes that we have proposed go in the right direction. i think the provisions are reasonable and well balanced. the programme –when hopefully voted through this parliament as well – will be able to meet the challenges of the future. it will be difficult to be against or to oppose this programme in a situation where unemployment is currently increasing dramatically all over europe, thereby heavily increasing the number of people at risk of poverty. so i look forward to the votes of this extremely responsible parliament.
the rapporteur. - i'll address some of the issues raised. first of all, i said that i was against co-financing, noting that we are now in a period of economic crisis, when the number of poor and unemployed people is increasing. we will evaluate the programme in 2011 or 2012 and then we will consider what to do with the co-financing. let's give ourselves time. let's not do this in a crisis. secondly, i share the commissioner's view that it will be difficult to limit the food distributed to food from the union, because this will increase costs and increase the administrative part of the programme. third, take the example of the us, how much money under the farm bill was allocated to support agriculture by funding free food stamps. fourthly, and finally, i encourage countries not participating in the programme to apply. the program is open. fifthly, the funds allocated to this programme do not restrict farmers' access to the cap, because we have savings under the cap. i want to go back to the source. as we know, the objectives of the cap were already formulated in the treaties of rome. they talk about the need to provide affordable food to the public and to guarantee farmers a fair level of income. it can be concluded that these are, firstly, production tasks, which determine the necessary production volume. second, social tasks, social, because we're talking about the right prices so that consumers can afford to buy food. so the rome statute sets out certain social goals. and finally, thirdly, economic objectives, related to ensuring adequate income for farmers. when we talk about affordable food for the poor, often unemployed consumer, it should be available to him at much lower prices, or even provided free of charge, of course, under special programmes and under certain conditions. in conclusion, the common agricultural policy also includes some social policy elements.
in writing. the report by mr czesław siekierski on the distribution of food to the most deprived people addresses the issues raised by the council regulations on the financing of the common agricultural policy and the specific provisions on this subject. we are dealing here with a situation which shows that there are large areas of poverty and poverty in the european union as well. it is very common among people living in rural areas or small towns, and among them are many children. according to official statistics, some 80 million europeans live below the poverty line. the fear is that the current crisis and rising unemployment will add to this very worrying figure. the fact that the amount allocated to the food aid programme for the poorest in the eu has increased from eur 305 million to eur 500 million is in itself a positive development. i believe, however, that such changes must be made to the systems in the member states in order to eliminate or at least to reduce considerably this unflattering situation. the main causes of this neglect are unemployment and the exorbitant prices of foodstuffs (just compare the wages farmers receive for their produce with the retail price in the store). our welfare system is far from perfect. finally, i would like to emphasize very clearly the need to allocate only good quality food, preferably fresh and from local farms, to this aid.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? by adopting today's report on the food distribution programme for the most deprived in the community, we will send a positive signal to our citizens that the european union is supporting the most deprived and poorest in the community with free food distribution. the food distribution programme, like the 'fruit in school' or 'milk in school' programmes, is changing attitudes and perceptions towards the european union, making it more friendly and close to two important social groups: people in need and young people. that is why i am asking you to vote in favour of this report. we will thus show that the european parliament is close to the people and their problems. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i abstained on mrs batzella's report, which i consider to be a very useful contribution to further work on food prices. retail prices are very different from the prices at which producers sell their products. retail, which is most visible to the consumer, has very little contact with farmers, and in seeking better ways of stabilising food prices we have to analyse the whole cost chain from producer to consumer. the proposed negotiation system is unrealistic in view of the number of players on the market and restricts competition.
in writing. - in the vote on the report by mrs margarete auken on the impact of extensive urbanisation in spain on the individual rights of european citizens, the environment and the application of eu law, based on the petitions received, i voted in favour. there is a great deal of evidence that coastal areas are over-urbanized, and that this is the responsibility of the central government, the autonomous regions and the local authorities. they are implementing an unsustainable development model with serious environmental, social and economic consequences. these actions have already resulted in the irreversible destruction of biodiversity and environmental integrity in many regions of spain. the procedures in response to such accusations are slow and the sentences are unsatisfactory for the victims, which raises concerns with the spanish justice system. it should also be noted that thousands of european citizens who, in various circumstances, purchased property in spain, became victims of urbanisation-related abuses by local authorities, with the result that their properties were earmarked for demolition. in the light of the above, the spanish government should be called upon to carry out a thorough review of the legal provisions affecting the rights of individual property owners following mass urbanisation, with a view to curtailing practices that infringe the rights provided for in the ec treaty.
in writing. the report, authored by francisco mon, looks at the transatlantic relationship following the recent us presidential elections. i supported this report because i believe that close cooperation between the united states and the european union is essential today in virtually all areas: political, defence, economic, energy, environmental, cultural, scientific and so on. we should be aware that the combined gross domestic product of the united states and the european union is more than 50% of the world's gdp. the 1995 new transatlantic agenda, which is currently in force, should be replaced by a framework agreement on the transatlantic partnership, which would be systematically updated. the us and the eu, whether they like it or not, are involved in global security and order. of course, this requires cooperation with other countries, especially china, india, russia. i also find the comments on the need for reform of the un, including the functioning of the security council, to be appropriate. this transatlantic cooperation cannot ignore the role of nato. the urgent need is for swift and effective action to stem the growing economic crisis. i would add that canada and mexico and south america should also be included in these reports. it is to be hoped that the words of the current us president, barack obama, 'america has no better partner than europe' will find their confirmation in the realities of everyday life. it is necessary to meet the challenges facing our civilization.
in writing. - i fully support the report by stavros lambrinidis on security and fundamental freedoms on the internet. i think it's very important and necessary, mainly because our presence on the global web is almost universal, in short, the internet has become part of our daily lives. we can't imagine a better source of information, whether we're writing a book or trying to make a fancy dish or trying to find a recipe. but we're not always aware that our online presence leaves traces that can be used against us, for example, by marketers, intelligence agencies, and even identity thieves. on the other hand, the internet can also be a convenient means of communication for criminals, terrorists. this is why it is so difficult to devise a sensible legal framework that will allow the full benefits of the internet to be enjoyed safely in a balanced and effective manner, while limiting the very real and serious risks associated with its misuse. i therefore support the rapporteur's conclusions, which seek to strike the right balance between the privacy and security of individuals online, while fully respecting their fundamental rights and freedoms. at the same time, i believe that the public authorities have a responsibility - beyond the quality of service - to provide internet access to the poorest and those living in even the most remote regions of the country.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. regions are extremely important for the development of culture. it is here that the largest number of long-term exchange programmes and joint projects for areas with different traditions, customs and achievements are created. regions are the catalysts for cultural development, and culture, important, attractive projects and events become a magnet for economic investment. it's a classic feedback loop. the results of the excellent european capital of culture programme are a good example of this. after a year of cultural events, there's always an economic revival. european cities are aware of this and have applied for participation in this project in large numbers. culture is a huge opportunity, especially for underdeveloped areas, those with limited natural resources or geographically-based tourist and recreational attractions. this is why it is so important to recognise the important role of regional authorities and to stimulate their action through specific european union programmes. i expect the european commission to present a green paper shortly, presenting a broad approach to action in the field of culture, taking into account the key regional level. ladies and gentlemen! let me conclude by drawing attention to the initiative to establish the european year of languages in neighbourhood in 2013. the dynamic development of regional cooperation in europe is often hampered by the lack of knowledge of the language and culture of neighbouring countries and regions, and the inability to reach a complete agreement. learning the language of your immediate neighbour can be a milestone towards mutual understanding and, consequently, towards cultural and economic cooperation and the strengthening of the european community as a whole.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i think it is worth recalling in this debate the very significant words of jacques delors, president of the european commission, who, when asked - after he had finished his work for europe as president of the european commission - what he regretted, what was not enough, he said that the european union, the european commission, had not given enough time to cultural affairs. and i think that kind of self-criticism could be a sure signpost for us. i agree with my predecessor who spoke of the strange priorities of our parliament. because we say culture is important, and not only are priorities like institutions and administration and regulation important, but that's what we talk about on monday, tuesday, wednesday and thursday before noon. it is only on thursday afternoon that the debate will be on the perhaps fundamental questions of culture, because culture is really the foundation of european unity. but not only the culture of the regions, but also the national culture, because the heritage of europe is really the heritage of the european peoples, perhaps especially the cultural heritage. i'm glad this came up. i am glad that it will - i believe - play an increasing role in the work of both the european parliament and the executive authorities of the union, in particular the european commission and the council.
madam president! the beauty of culture comes from its regional, local diversity, changing with the development of societies. regional cultures, deeply rooted in tradition, provide a strong foundation for national cultures and their various currents. they also attract with their colour and expression, stimulate artistically, convey experience and emotion, and strengthen the bonds of local communities. regional cultures are pushed forward by the inspired community of professional creators. it is often thought that regional culture must be an amateur movement and a professionally supported one. this is probably the reason why the european union is also tending to finance large and expensive projects, including international ones involving professional creators from different countries. regional and local cultures are gradually dying, with many of their expressions, disciplines and creative skills disappearing. today, we can speak of traditional and folk culture in regions that are historically backward and only to a small extent in others that are developing. there is therefore an urgent need to develop a programme of scientific research, documentation, protection and development of regional culture in all its spiritual and artistic manifestations. these are the features of my amendment to the resolution under discussion. i hope it will have the support of the members of parliament.
madam president! you have to eat, move, and hide from the cold and rain. these are the elements of production and trade that serve to satisfy basic needs. but the kind of fork he eats, the shape of his bike, the roof of his house, it's not an economy anymore, it's an expression of culture. man has a spiritual need to create, simply for the sake of creating. and glory to god when others can see it with their eyes or touch it and feel better. what is important is the cultural diversity that is often associated with the regions. we must not unify these regions and cultures, but rather encourage their diversity. culture is the expression of the soul of a region. the union would be very uninteresting without the cultural wealth it now has. it's costly to maintain a culture, and it's our job to support it. without it, there will be no economy and no happy people in the european union.
madam president! europe's cultural wealth is the result of the great diversity of its regions. it is this diversity that needs to be protected. cognac lace is very different from brabante lace. the mixture created by the superficial extraction and reproduction of the culture leads to impoverishment. we must preserve this diversity in all its forms and manifestations, including multilingualism and material culture, because it is the basis of our identity, the source of creative development, the source of enriching borrowing. it also gives cultural tourism a sense of place. regional culture needs to be supported and protected. i'm asking the european commission for a program like this.
madam president! the motto of the european union is unity in diversity. and this diversity is what makes the european union so attractive, and it's also what makes us so different from the united states, for example. cultural diversity is also, in fact, based on the enormous diversity of our regional cultures, the diversity that makes these regions and entire countries so incredibly attractive to tourists. they are a tourist attraction for us europeans, and they are also a tremendous tourist attraction for others who in this europe can see, can experience and appreciate such unprecedented diversity. so, for this reason, for example, regional culture needs to be promoted. but it is also important to remember that regional culture is a bridge that also allows the presence of people in regions that are inhabited by so-called high culture. without this, it would be difficult to speak of the standardization and dissemination of certain patterns and cultural perceptions.
madam president! the unity of europe, while preserving its diversity, identity and cultural heritage, is a great value for our community. individual peoples, regions and different local communities cultivate and develop their own culture and traditions, bring this heritage to a united europe, share it with other regions and in turn learn about their achievements and achievements in this field. so they share something with others, and they take something from others. it is also important that the union budget should be used to support cultural heritage in the regions and, even more importantly, in the small countries. those who feared that after integration they would lose their culture, their identity, find that the opposite is true - that the union promotes regional, folk and local culture.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? the report identifies the european union's relations with russia as being of key importance to the economic and political interests of the union. it underlines the role that russia can and should play in the international arena, and in particular in our common neighbourhood, contributing to the economic and political stability of the region. on the other hand, however, the report draws attention to russia's disproportionately strong reaction to georgia's military intervention in south ossetia and to the unprovoked and large-scale russian military action in abkhazia, and stresses the need for meaningful security dialogue a dialogue that must be based on respect for international law and the territorial integrity of states. notes that the events in the caucasus and the recognition of the independence of both enclaves ossetia and abkhazia call into question russia's willingness and ability to build a common security area in europe with the european union; the report calls for the conclusion of talks on russia's full implementation of the agreements ending the conflict in georgia, including the status of abkhazia and south ossetia, before any negotiated agreement is adopted, and for russia to make firm commitments not to use force against its neighbours. the report draws attention to the fact that recent events related to russia's violation of georgia's territorial integrity and the gas supply crisis threaten eu-russia relations. the report provides an opinion on the need to replace the current agreement with a new comprehensive agreement, which will cover all aspects of our cooperation and will be legally binding. it should also contain clear dispute resolution procedures. the report also raises the issue of energy security and the inclusion in the negotiated agreement of the basic provisions of the energy treaty, as well as the transit protocol, irrespective of whether the treaty is legally binding today also binding on russia, but which russia may terminate. the report draws attention to the great potential of possible mutual economic links based on full equality between the two sides, which can create a situation of beneficial interdependence. the report stresses the importance of the member states, especially in their relations with russia, and of the european union as a whole, speaking with one voice and consulting each other in accordance with the provisions of the eu treaties, with sufficient time in advance, on any bilateral initiatives with russia, especially those which may have implications for other countries of the european union or for the european union as a whole. the report focuses on human rights and freedoms in russia. recalls that russia, as a member of the council of europe, is obliged to respect the principles on which the council is founded and notes that compliance with these principles will be essential for the success of the negotiations on cooperation between the european union and russia; it also regrets that russia is resisting the introduction of effective measures to prevent the human rights abuses of the authorities so frequently condemned by the european court of justice from taking place. among the recommendations in the report, it is worth noting the european union's continued support for russia's membership of the world trade organisation, recognising the importance of russia implementing the obligations of membership by the time it is formally granted, in particular by not withdrawing from practices that have already been introduced. in this context, it is worth mentioning the strong emphasis on the effective protection of intellectual, commercial and industrial property. in addition to numerous recommendations on human rights, media freedom, judicial independence and the shrinking space for ngos in russia, the report raises the issue of visa facilitation and makes numerous references to economic issues such as shipping problems in the baltic and along the northern coast of russia, the issue of flights over siberia and reciprocity in relation to the possibility of free investment.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. by using energy supplies as a tool of political pressure and applying the principle of 'divide and rule', the kremlin is corrupting europe from country to country, from cyprus to the netherlands. and he does it with amazing efficiency. the european union has shown astonishing passivity in its attack on sovereign georgia. the union leaders suddenly became invisible. where was javier solana or commissioner ferrero-waldner at the time? meanwhile, nicolas sarkozy, the president of france, has been humiliated by the russians' complete disregard for the peace agreement he negotiated. europe's weakness in its relations with russia is therefore due to its own naivety and shortsightedness. energy companies from austria, germany and italy are doing bilateral business with the kremlin. this directly translates into political pressure being exerted by moscow on individual member states. germany is building a gas pipeline under the baltic sea to bypass poland, and russia has already cut off energy supplies to lithuania, the czech republic and other european union countries. if nord stream is built, the same thing could happen to my country, poland. the union's policy towards russia must be based on unity and solidarity. therefore, consultation with other member states on bilateral agreements with russia that might affect them is absolutely essential if we are to be effective in our relations with russia.
madam president! the report gives a fairly detailed account of the human rights violations that have recently occurred in the russian federation. their example clearly shows that russia disregards all the standards that apply throughout the free world. i therefore call on the council and the european commission to start enforcing the human rights treaties in which russia has committed itself and to make the further negotiations on the agreement dependent on this. very often, in joint meetings with the russian side, i hear duma deputies say: 'let's leave these human rights behind and get to the specifics, namely trade'. we can't accept that approach. there is nothing more important than freedom, health and life. these are the values that are often forgotten in russia, but the values of money are always remembered.
madam president! it is common knowledge that any agreements with russia have a more desirable meaning than as legally binding documents over a longer period of time. however, further efforts are needed to improve relations with that country. of course, this cannot happen on the current basis, when the european union's almost 500 million people, who produce more than 20% of the world's gross domestic product, are the party vying for the favour of a much weaker and smaller partner. i say this because it is not uncommon for the interests of some members of the european union to trump european solidarity, and russia is ruthlessly exploiting this. of course we should deepen economic cooperation with russia, but we must demand from our partner the same standards as from all the member states of the european union and there can be no question of accepting human rights violations.
madam president, russia is our greatest neighbour, a great country which has lived through imperial mirages in the last century, but has also lived through terrible experiences. it takes time and persistence to recover from this trauma, and it also takes patience on our part. the negotiations on a new agreement will therefore be difficult and arduous. the report is demanding, but fair. the greatest challenge in european policy is to ensure that there is a coherence between an effective partnership with our six eastern neighbours and good mutual cooperation with russia. progress will depend on a true convergence of our ways of life, and an understanding of the fundamental values, which should not be betrayed.
madam president! the use of gas supplies for political blackmail, the threat to georgia's independence, the genocide in chechnya, the lack of a fair trial in the murder of anna politkovskaya and litvinenko are the main obstacles to contacts with russia. unfortunately, russia has not taken a single step towards democratization and respect for human rights. this does not bode well for negotiations and further cooperation. if we are to be effective in negotiations, we must pursue a common, uniform and united policy. this is important for such a significant neighbour of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to thank you all for this interesting debate. i think it is very necessary regarding our future relations with russia, and a number of important points have been covered in the debate. i can support much of what has been said here. for those who speak of the need for engagement, i think it is clear that a new agreement is of great importance for the further development and intensification of cooperation between the eu and russia. it is also clear that the new agreement must continue to improve on the current partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). it has to reflect the realities of today’s cooperation with russia. our relations now are a lot deeper and more wide-ranging than they were only a decade ago. for those who speak of energy, we must clearly state that the eu wishes to strengthen cooperation with russia through the instruments we have – the meetings of the energy dialogue and the permanent partnership council on energy. there will be a meeting of the permanent partnership council on energy during this presidency. the objective is to promote trust and transparency in eu-russia energy relations. we cannot afford another disruption of the energy supply. we should also strengthen the early warning mechanism and make it more operative. to those who speak of human rights, i think that the application of the rule of law, an independent judiciary and full respect for human rights – including free and independent media – are necessary to promote stability and prosperity in russia. the eu follows the human rights situation in russia with concern and we raise – and will continue to raise – those concerns at our eu-russia meetings. for example, the conduct of cases such as the resumption of the khodorkovsky trial will be a kind of litmus paper for us regarding the rule of law in russia. for those who speak of leverage, i agree very much that we have to speak with one voice when talking with russia, and we need this kind of debate to shape the form of this one voice. unity and solidarity are essential, and we will work very hard to achieve this. it is important that the member states inform and consult each other as much as possible about bilateral issues with russia which could have repercussions on other member states and the eu as a whole. parliament’s suggestions in this regard are worth considering, although, given the existing council structures, i am not entirely sure that the creation of a formal consultation mechanism is the most practical way forward. i strongly feel, however, that some kind of mechanism or common approach is needed to complement the existing framework of eu-russia relations. there is definitely some room for improvement in our policy towards russia, and unity and solidarity are indeed the key words in this context. we already have quite intensive political consultation in the council when it comes to showing solidarity, but this is also a question of political will. i agree that we need greater trust and understanding between the eu and russia. we need to overcome the suspicions of the past and build on the real and substantial relationship which has evolved over the years, but this is certainly a two-way process and we need two to tango. the new agreement is one way to do this. the other is through a better dialogue. parliament has an important role to play here and i can, therefore, agree with the suggestion that the role of the parliamentary cooperation committee should be strengthened under the new agreement. the parliamentary dimension – like civil society contacts – has much to offer in terms of communicating and promoting the fundamental democratic principles and values on which the eu is founded. we therefore look forward to remaining in a dialogue with you as the negotiations progress.
member of the commission. − madam president, debates on russia are never easy. russia, on the one hand, is an important global partner, but, on the other hand, it is also a big neighbour, and there i think you have two sides that do not always easily converge. on the one hand, being a global partner, we see russia as a real partner, as i said before. for instance, in the middle east, in seeking a solution between israel and palestine and on many other of these issues. or on afghanistan and pakistan, yesterday in the conference in the hague, russia had an important part to play; or on iran, or on the non-proliferation issues, or on the big global issues like climate change, which was also mentioned, or now the financial and economic crisis. everybody is being affected by that. this is true for us, but it is also true for russia and for many other global partners. therefore i think we have to see this very clearly, but at the same time we also have to see russia as a great neighbour, where sometimes we do not see eye to eye in the common neighbourhood. and we have a common neighbourhood – some of you have mentioned that, be it moldova or nagorno-karabakh or, of course, georgia. there we have to make sure we come much closer to each other, but also speak frankly on the difficulties and the differences that exist. one of these issues is the ‘eastern partnership’, and we discussed the eastern partnership only last week in parliament. the chief goal of the eastern partnership, which is concerned with six of our neighbouring countries, is to help those countries who want to come much more into line with the european union on certain key issues like standards of governments, freer trade and others. in these activities, i think it is important that we have these countries as partners. but at the same time we have also said, on the multilateral platform, that we are, in principle, open to third countries like russia on an ad hoc basis, as appropriate; certainly russia is also a full member in the black sea synergy, where regional matters are handled. so there is also a chance to work together in order to overcome some difficulties that exist. on the other hand, gas. with gas, we know – i said it clearly before and i will repeat it – we are interdependent; we know that. as we also know, the gas crisis has diminished the trust in our partners. it has underlined the importance of energy provisions in the coming eu-russia and eu-ukraine agreements, and they will be there. we must step up the work to create an internal energy market, but also increase efficiency and diversify supplies. the new agreement with russia should therefore lay down, as we always say, legally binding reciprocal commitments. and, in parallel to the new agreement and for the short term, we are working with russia to make the early warning mechanism more efficient, as i said before. we should also foresee monitoring and conflict prevention and resolution, and this should also involve belarus and ukraine. we know that russia is a very important energy partner for us, contributing 40% of the gas we import and 20% of the gas we consume. this is, as i said before, a relationship of interdependence. since we represent over two thirds of their export revenue – which has made a very significant contribution to russia’s economic development – it is essential that there should be no repeat of the events of last january, and therefore we are working with both the ukrainians and the russians to prevent that. on human rights we do not always see eye to eye. on the one hand, the eu and russia share common international commitments, as i said, through the instruments that we have signed together at the un, at the oecd and at the council of europe. these commitments reflect values and include the obligation to respect the decisions of the bodies they set up. that is particularly true for the european court of human rights, but it is also evident that the eu and russia interpret commitments differently. the european union and russia have chosen the path of dialogue on these issues, and this is the right way. this means that we must also listen to the concerns the russian side expresses sometimes with regard to some developments inside the european union including, for instance, the issue of russian-speaking minorities. but it is also true, as the president-in-office of the council said, that there are clear concerns about the failure to respect human rights in the russian federation, and continuing cases of attacks on human rights defenders, journalists and others reflect badly on russia. we raise these issues regularly with the high authorities: myself with sergey lavrov, and president barroso with his interlocutors. we also use our twice-yearly human rights consultations to do so as well. the discussions in the bilateral meeting between president barroso and president medvedev on 6 february also included an exchange on human rights. president medvedev himself suggested that these exchanges continue at the 21-22 may summit, and we shall take him up on that. for instance, the attack on human rights activist lev ponomarev last night is the latest reminder of how difficult the situation for human rights defenders is in russia. but let me say that the two strands have clearly been reflected in the mandate that the council has given the commission to negotiate. both are there, and this is the content of our mandate. therefore, i think the right way is to follow up on this mandate and, as i said, we are always ready to report on the follow up of our negotiations, as we have just been doing.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i would like to point out to those who criticise this report that it is not a report on russia. the purpose of this report is to suggest to the commission which issues to raise in bilateral talks and negotiations and which issues to pay particular attention to. that is why it could not be included in this report, and should not be included in this report, on topics such as the osce or president medvedev's plan. it's like a different kind of case. this is something that needs to be discussed in the osce with the americans, but not in the bilateral relations with russia. and of course, this kind of suggestion cannot include our own criticism and evaluation of, for example, the human rights situation in the european union. so these are the things that we have to come up with in our talks with russia, and they'll take our cases away from us. and that's one thing. the second thing is the nature of the conversation itself. i would like to point out that this report avoids the word 'strategic partnership' and for good reason. because in the document that was adopted on our esdp, we read the following in the paragraph on russia: (the member quotes the paragraph in english). no strategic partnership is possible if the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are not fully shared and respected; [therefore] calls on the council to place those values at the core of the ongoing negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement. so the situation is quite clear. i think we have to remember what this report is, what it is about and what kind of message it is to the commission. and finally, a final note to mrs. bobošíková: it was not the sultan who wrote to the cossacks, it was the cossacks who wrote to the sultan.
in writing. russia is an important partner of the european union. the union expects its partners to cooperate in a fair and honest manner. interdependence can be mutually beneficial, but it doesn't have to be. on the contrary, it can be a source of anxiety and conflict. we should do everything possible to make economic cooperation, security, energy security, respect for human rights and democracy a constructive and positive element in our relations. whether that happens depends largely on the russian side. russia can take the side of western values and standards. no one is forcing russia to choose one way or the other. that is a choice russia must make. one thing seems certain: i have no doubt that europe will not change its values at the behest of russia or any other country. we are so consistent, or even stubborn, not because it would mean giving up our values. europe, if it were to abandon its basic principles, would cease to be europe. that is why, for example, we will always respect the territorial integrity of georgia. we don't do this because we like georgians in any particular way. the reason for this attitude is loyalty to the principles that constitute our world. destroying this world would be suicide. this is not the scenario that the union wants, nor, i believe, that russia wants.
in writing. the conclusion of a new eu-russia agreement is one of the most important challenges facing eu diplomacy. the european parliament has an active role to play in shaping the shape and content of this agreement. the report provides a comprehensive analysis of the most relevant aspects of the eu's relations with russia, with a particular focus on the current relationship. i believe that the adoption of the report will be a significant step in shaping the new partnership agreement between the european union and russia. the main points of the agreement should be the subject of not only thorough consultation but also tough negotiations between the parties to the future agreement. the report presents a variety of problems, the solution of which is of particular importance for each country. i would like to remind you of the difficulties in trade between poland and the russian federation. only a unified eu position can solve these problems. the report provides an exhaustive list of issues that need to be addressed, but it is not likely that all of them will be resolved in the short term, for example because of cultural and social differences.
in writing. russia is a country where basic democratic principles are often not respected, and where there are notorious cases of violations of human rights, freedom of expression and expression of one's views. the russian media, under the influence of president medvedev and prime minister putin, are unable to carry out their basic task of reliable reporting. but let's not forget that russia is one of our main partners. russia is an indispensable player in the international arena. it's also one of the major energy suppliers, an important trading partner. i think we should be loud and clear in criticizing russia for its lack of democracy, for its disregard for civil liberties, for its violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries. we should call on russia to respect the rights of national minorities and to enforce the international treaties it has signed (the united nations charter, the european convention on human rights and the energy charter treaty), while not forgetting the importance of its partnership for the european union and for europe as a whole.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european commission ensures that the project does not aim to change the marriage and adoption laws in the member states. the commission claims that it does not want to change the legal situation of the church and religious educational and welfare institutions. the buitenweg report overturns these limitations in every dimension, blurring the safeguards for domestic family and adoption law in the 50th amendment. amendments 12, 29, 51 make the report an attack on the freedom of religious education. amendment 52 attacks the guarantees of freedom of religious communities in the member states. apparently the european left wants to reduce european integration to one thing: obsessive knee-pushing of ever-new homosexual postulates. this is the biggest blow to the credibility of this chamber.
in writing. discrimination is a serious problem in europe and beyond. in a special eurobarometer survey in 2008, 15% of europeans said they had experienced discrimination in the past year. the proposed directive, which the european parliament has been waiting for for over four years, is an attempt to put into practice the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, not only in terms of access to employment but also to goods, facilities or services such as banking, housing, education, transport and healthcare. the document also defines minimum framework standards to ensure protection against discrimination. member states can always increase the level of protection, but they cannot invoke the new directive to reduce existing standards. the directive gives injured persons the right to compensation and states unequivocally that member states not only have a duty to express their will but also an obligation to combat discrimination. a significant number of eu countries have already introduced legislation to a greater or lesser extent to protect people outside the labour market from discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. this draft directive will allow for the introduction of coherent european legislation in this area and will make it clear that europe as a whole does not allow for discrimination. freedom from discrimination is a fundamental right and should apply to everyone in the european union!
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund as regards certain provisions on financial management (17575/2008 - c6-0027/2009 - 2008/0233 (avc)) (a6-0127/2009), the report by karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1081/2006 on the european social fund to extend the types of costs eligible for funding from the regional fund (c013/08 - c06-045/2008 - c02-045/2008 - c02-0236/2008 - c02-0236/2008 - c02-038/2008 - c02-034/08) and the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1080/2008 on the european parliament and council as regards the mixed energy efficiency and energy efficiency of buildings (com (2008) 0246 final) and commission report to the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council amending regulation (ec) no 1080/2008 on the european parliament and council as regards the mixed energy efficiency of buildings (com (2008) 024/06 final).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are discussing reports on regional policy today. they introduce beneficial changes and simplifications. it's just a pity that the crisis has forced a quick and effective, i hope effective, response to this condition. it's good that we're going to be able to introduce more flexibility, because in no way - i want to stress this very strongly - are we increasing the budget of the european union. there's been talk of a settlement. this is a small drop, since the union budget represents about 1% of the gdp of the member states. i hope this drop is refreshing. it's necessary. i am glad that we are increasing this flexibility with the support also of the european investment bank, the european investment fund, that we are simplifying the eligibility of expenditure, and that we are doing it retroactively. it's good that we're increasing the advance payments, that we're accelerating spending on large projects that will be submitted early and payments can be made before approval. i repeat, i hope it is refreshing.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing today changes that are very important not only in response to the difficulties of the financial crisis, but we are discussing de facto changes that could affect the shape of cohesion policy in the period 2013+. of course, such a major change cannot be purely temporary. for the first time, we are witnessing how the european commission, in consultation with the council and parliament, is taking action that has been talked about for a long time and which seemed very difficult. we are seeing real simplifications, real accelerations and, of course, a change in strategy by including energy-efficient investments. this is a very positive sign that we are able to respond to the situation during the programming period and not stick dogmatically to pre-defined rules. the european parliament, although treated as a rather additional body to the commission and the council, is determined to demonstrate its willingness to cooperate in responding dynamically to new challenges.
madam president! the crisis requires stimulating economic activity, supporting job protection and protecting people losing their jobs. the commission's proposal to extend the costs covered by the esf is therefore a proposal in the right direction. the inclusion of flat-rate financing, including direct and mixed costs, and the absence of a ceiling on the rates are important to help the esf to be better used. the introduction of lump sums for both direct and indirect costs up to eur 50 000 will simplify administrative procedures. this will eliminate delays in the achievement of the fund's objectives. in view of the urgency of these solutions, i support the adoption of the proposal without amendments. thank you, mrs. harkin, for pointing out the value of volunteer work.
madam president! the european union is facing a major crisis whose consequences are as yet impossible to predict. we're seeing a slowdown in growth, a widening of budget deficits and a surge in unemployment. one of the most effective instruments for stimulating investment and providing national economies with additional public funds seems to be the european cohesion policy with a budget of €347 billion for 2007-13. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals to amend the existing set of regulations on the structural funds: changes to speed up spending, increase the liquidity associated with the implementation of projects and simplify the rules for their rapid implementation in the regions. the main areas of intervention are to increase eib and efi support and simplify the eligibility of expenditure, increase advance payments and accelerate expenditure on large projects. welcomes the european commission's swift action and the proposed legislative changes. however, one more important change would be needed, which is currently lacking: a management and control system to guarantee the real liquidity of the entire economic system of the union.
in writing. in the debate on the european funds, i would like to draw attention to four proposals from the european commission to speed up the use of structural funds funds by beneficiaries. 1.increased support from the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment fund (eif) for projects co-financed by the structural funds 2.simplification of procedures relating to the eligibility of expenditure, retroactively from 1 august 2006 (e.g. inclusion of non-monetary contributions of the beneficiary in eligible expenditure) 3.increase payments due from the structural funds by 2%, allowing for an additional advance payment of eur 6.25 billion in 2009. 4. accelerating expenditure on large projects, inter alia by enabling beneficiaries to submit payment applications before the project is approved by the european commission. all the above-mentioned changes to increase the liquidity of beneficiaries as well as simplifying the rules deserve strong support and should be implemented as soon as possible.
madam president! i was saddened to hear last week that a vote of no confidence had been taken in prague against prime minister mirko topolánek. since 1 january, the czech republic has been at the forefront of the european union's work and this presidency has been, in my view, a very successful one so far. i hope it's the same for the next quarter. i have my fingers crossed for my czech colleagues and for all the projects that the czech presidency intends to implement, including the very important eastern neighbourhood policy and the energy security of europe.
madam president! according to the eu debate 2009 portal, only 52% of europeans trust the european parliament as an institution in 2008. that's a three percent drop from last year's results. one in two voters is not sure whether he will take part in this year's european parliament elections. only 30% of those surveyed said they would take part. and 68% of voters will not go to the polls because they believe their vote doesn't matter. so i would like to ask: is the european parliament planning some spectacular last minute initiative to get people to vote? will we be able to expand the information channels for europe in any way? in my country, there is not the slightest european debate. the prime minister is doing absolutely nothing about it. so, then, is the rest of us to stand by and watch?
madam president! at the last meeting of the committee on agriculture, commissioner fischer boel said that one of the major successes of the common agricultural policy was the reform of the sugar sector. i would like to state that, following this reform, poland now has to import about 20% of its sugar from the sugar-exporting country. and sugar prices have gone up 60 percent in just two years. it is important to consider whether the commissioner and her colleagues were wrong or whether this was a planned strategy to make some countries more profitable. i would like to emphasize unequivocally that the entire agricultural policy is, in the opinion of polish voters, a policy that is extremely asymmetrical and directed at the countries of the old union.
madam president! we have spoken many times in this room about the genocide in chechnya, about the murder of chechens for the purpose of organ transplants, about the rape of chechen women. today, chechnya's material culture, which is hundreds of years older than russian culture, is also being deliberately destroyed. i am thinking not only of literature and everyday objects of museum value, of the preserved traditions of their manufacture, but also of houses-towers special construction objects not found in other parts of our continent. we have repeatedly pointed out that our culture is enriched by its diversity. today we see one of its branches die, one of its springs become submerged.
madam president! last november, at the request of the group of the party of european socialists, we debated the situation in the polish shipbuilding industry. we have asked the commission and commissioner kroes, in accordance with and above the divisions, to find solutions that will improve the situation in the shipyards, not destroy them. the situation after four months is as follows: the commission has, as it were, forced the polish government, which has given in too easily, to sell off individual assets of the yard on the principle: whoever gives more, buys any separate asset. we have a situation where shipbuilding has stopped, most of the workers have lost their jobs, they have received token amounts and the competitiveness of the european shipbuilding industry has not improved at all.
mr. chairman, please! we're discussing the working hours and rest periods of motor transport drivers in a time of economic crisis. thousands of cars are parked, unable to find employment. and so, like drivers, many, many companies are increasingly on the verge of economic disaster. the authors of this question - mr jarzembowski, mrs wortmann-kool, etc. - rightly raise the issue of: 1. the complexity of the system, 2. its reliability or unreliability, 3. the practice of applying the restrictions we have been using so far. there is no scientific evidence that more flexible use, which would even allow for an extension of the working week in a given situation, would have a negative impact on traffic safety, especially when traffic is decreasing. it is not difficult to foresee that the rigorous application of these restrictions, accompanied by the introduction of new charges for road transport - let me mention the euro-vinna and the internalisation of external costs - could jeopardise the future of this sector. the subject is certainly worth debating and i would very much like to hear the commission's position on this.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is my pleasure to present the report on the problems and perspectives concerning european citizenship, which was adopted unanimously by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) last month. european citizenship does not replace national citizenship. it is an added bonus, giving eu citizens unique rights, notably the right to the freedom of movement, the right to consular protection and the right to petition parliament and the european ombudsman. parliament’s report takes into consideration the commission’s fifth report on european citizenship, covering the period from 1 may 2004 to 30 june 2007. this is a unique period. five years ago, on 1 may 2004, 10 new member states joined the european union. the result of that accession, especially of states from central and eastern europe, was a hitherto unseen scale of inter-union migration. the new citizens of the union embraced the rights granted to them, especially the right to free movement. they benefited from the opportunity to be educated abroad and, in those countries which opened their labour markets, they undertook legal work. the scale of migration, however, poses many challenges for the host countries. these are challenges for both the central and local authorities. local authorities, particularly, where they are responsible for the provision of services such as housing, health care and primary and secondary education, are often confronted with the day-to-day problems of the new immigrants. much has been done to aid integration, as well as to help newcomers benefit from the same rights as citizens of their host countries. nevertheless, instances of discrimination remain. sometimes these are the result of legal loopholes and sometimes the result of a lack of knowledge of how to apply the law. the libe committee took a very constructive and practical approach in its work. there was cross-party agreement that our priority was to highlight the problem areas and undertake steps to remedy them by providing central and local government in member states with the necessary resources and support. our primary concern was that the individual citizen should not be hindered in any way from benefiting from his or her rights. the second right i mentioned, that of consular protection, is still, unfortunately, poorly applied. this fact was brought starkly to our attention when our own colleagues found themselves in a dramatic situation during the terrorist attacks in mumbai. if meps had problems exercising their right to consular protection in such an extreme situation, what chance does the average citizen have in more mundane circumstances? increasing citizens’ awareness of their rights was a key issue raised throughout the report and a number of measures are suggested for greater awareness building. if only 31% of citizens consider themselves to be well-informed about their rights, we still have a lot to do. i trust the commission will take into account parliament’s recommendations and will report back in its sixth report on the concrete progress made. finally, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the political groups and the libe committee secretariat for their hard work. a special word of thanks goes to all those who participated in the public hearing on the report, especially the representatives of the ngos. it is fitting that, in a report on citizenship, the citizen’s voice, via the ngos, was heeded in drawing up the final report.
madam president! the current task of eu legislation is to simplify it and make the law transparent and understandable to every citizen. ecolabelling is information for consumers about environmental issues, including information about the product, which facilitates the decision to buy it. the introduction of this system will contribute to improving the environment and combating climate change, and will also contribute to reducing water consumption. the information on organic products quantitative and other should be clear and legible. consuming more organic, natural, regional food will help improve the health of our society.
mr president, this will be a very short oral amendment, which has been proposed at the request of alexander milinkevich and the amnesty international representatives who took part in the conference on belarus two days ago at parliament. they asked to extend the demand to release political prisoners who have recently been arrested also to people who face other kinds of restrictions and harassment. that is why i propose – and i have consulted other political groups – to add to paragraph 4: ‘as well as a review of the “restricted freedom” sentences imposed on 11 persons who participated in a demonstration which took place in january 2008;’.
mr. president, i just wanted to say that i signed this resolution, too. mr president, i have also signed this resolution and i do not find myself on the motion for a resolution. so i ask you to put my name.
mr. chairman, please! i could not support mrs vălean's report. it allows a situation of conflict of laws, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity, by promoting the reunion of families from third countries with a different culture, including those which allow polygamy. he's creating legal confusion. as you know, the definitions of 'family' and 'family member' differ in our countries. there are also different rights, such as inheritance rights, family rights and social assistance rights. the creation of rights to social benefits without consent and without taking into account the economic situation of the host country can lead to serious social conflicts. i object to the continuing violation of the principle of subsidiarity in this house.
mr. chairman, please! given the difficulties related to visa procedures, it is necessary to simplify them, inter alia, by reducing the costs incurred by applicants. this will help to improve the union's cultural exchange and cooperation with third countries. i think it is important to simplify the visa procedures for people who have family in the member states. i will take the example of poland, whose history has been interwoven for hundreds of years with the history of countries such as ukraine and belarus, where a significant polish minority lives, who do not have polish citizenship, but who often cross the borders of the union to visit their relatives. it is therefore necessary to simplify visa procedures to the maximum extent possible for people who have gained the trust of the issuing authority by not breaking any visa laws. i consider it important that the introduction of biometric identifiers will facilitate the exchange of data and help the future integration of the visa system, thereby facilitating the visa process as well as improving security across the union. this report is important for the development of the union's relations with third countries.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report on equal treatment despite, or perhaps because i am against discrimination. the adoption of this document means, in particular, the acceptance of equal access for paedophiles to workplaces in direct contact with children, which is legally guaranteed, which means the risk to children, the acceptance of publications and public speeches by fascist and religious sects, the prohibition of the functioning of educational or charitable centres run by churches in their communities, which will greatly limit social activity, as well as the opening of wider possibilities for discrimination against christians. the document infringes the principle of subsidiarity, which is increasingly the practice in the european parliament.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation amending annex 11 to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products. i agree with the rapporteur's observations on the further integration of the two markets. indeed, the agreement would help to increase the productivity of the agricultural sector of both parties and to keep food prices fair and relatively stable from the point of view of the citizens. however, i agree with the belief that both sides should carefully negotiate full trade liberalization. the value of bilateral trade is significant and the removal of barriers would have a very significant impact, in particular on the agricultural economy of the eu countries neighbouring switzerland and on swiss farmers.
in writing. - mrs takkula's report raises a major social issue. i believe that it should be easier for children from third countries to learn the language of the country in which they are staying, so as to ensure that they have equal opportunities to obtain higher qualifications. it is the first and fundamental step towards full integration into society.
in writing. − in the light of article 18 of the treaty establishing the european community, every citizen has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. directive 2004/38/ec lays down in detail the legal possibilities for the movement within the union of union citizens, their immediate family members or a partner as defined by a legal act. however, freedom of movement should be considered together with the provisions relating to the free movement of workers and the freedom to provide services. as we know, four of the eu countries have still not opened their labour markets to workers from the countries that joined in 2004. as many as 11 european union countries continue to apply restrictions on their labour markets for citizens of romania and bulgaria. i think that this phenomenon is not only a negative influence on the integration process. we should aim to remove the existing barriers as soon as possible. in accordance with article 20 of the treaty, any citizen shall, in the territory of a third country where the member state of which he is a national has no representative, enjoy the diplomatic and consular protection of any other member state on the same conditions as nationals of that state. the announced measures to strengthen consular protection in third countries should be implemented as soon as possible and the negotiations with third countries on visa-free travel should be continued.
in writing. - i supported mr angelakas' report because it emphasises the use of specific amounts of money to co-finance regional and local renewable energy programmes in housing. it is also very good that it is the member states who will set the criteria and decide which residential buildings are eligible for funding under national rules. this is a sign that this money will be directed to the facilities that need it most in each of the member states.
in writing. − the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has prepared a proposal on the basis of the hague programme. it aims to simplify visa policy by establishing a community code on visas. it aims to facilitate the process of applying for, extending, revoking, withdrawing and limiting the period of validity of visas. the code will unify and specify the precise rules for issuing visas, their type and period of validity. in addition, the documents needed to obtain the appropriate type of visa will be specified. the european union's unified visa law will remove the legal provisions that have made the visa process more difficult. the community visa code will facilitate the movement not only of union citizens but above all of non-eu citizens. this will facilitate both civil and professional communication between the community and non-community countries. in the light of this change, particular attention should be paid to the continuous training of customs officers, in particular those working at the european union's borders. the eu's visa policy should reflect the main priorities of its foreign policy. i think that the creation of a community visa code is a good idea to harmonize the legislation of the member states.
in writing. - discrimination is a problem that is of the utmost relevance in the era of european unification and that we cannot ignore. although we have already raised this issue on several occasions, its effects are still unsatisfactory. the diversity of discrimination is a significant problem. discrimination on grounds of ethnic or racial origin is prohibited both in and outside the labour market. discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is now prohibited only in the workplace. i believe that attention should be paid to combating discrimination not only within working life but also outside it. discrimination should be defined in the same way regardless of gender. prevention of inequality is the most important issue, but we cannot forget about the people who are discriminated against. we must ensure that the law is enforced and that those who discriminate are punished consistently. discrimination is a very serious issue both in the context of private life and the process of european integration. i fully agree with the rapporteur, ms kathalijne maria buitenweg, and thank her for her very good and comprehensive report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the resolution on the evaluation of the eu-belarus dialogue. i am glad that, in addition to the general political assessment, the resolution expresses specific expectations towards the belarusian authorities. dialogue is not conducted for the sake of dialogue. it should lead to improvements in those situations which for various reasons require improvement. no one doubts that the situation in belarus is ideal. we therefore expect a review of the decision on the recruitment of young activists franak viacork, ivan syla and zmiter fedoruk. they cannot be a kind of hostage to the authorities. franak viacorka is the son of a well-known opposition activist. conscription should not be used as a tool for politics. we also call for the recognition of the authorities of the union of poles in belarus and its president, angela borys, elected on 15 march 2009. we would like the belarusian authorities to review the sentences of 11 demonstrators who took part in the demonstration in january 2008. these are very concrete examples that allow the belarusian authorities to show goodwill and a willingness to engage in real dialogue. i hope belarus will take this opportunity. this will be beneficial for belarus itself, belarusians, the european union and the relations between belarus and europe. thank you, sir.
in writing. - if we are serious about building the future of europe, we cannot afford to ignore historical facts and neglect the memory of tragic moments in our history. the memory of the victims of crimes against humanity should be one of the fundamental elements of history teaching and awareness-raising among young people in europe. ignorance of history not only leads to its denial but also to the formation of all kinds of dangerous nationalisms. i would also like the european public to know more about polish heroes like captain witold pilecki. we must remember that understanding the past of all of europe, not just its western part, is the key to building a common future.
in writing. − the own-initiative report by mr schmitt on the european cooperation plan for european schools seeks to highlight the common challenges and threats facing the education systems of the member states. it's true in many places. such common recognition is necessary, for example, in view of the enormous migration within the community. the report deserves support, but one cannot help feeling that the common values which the rapporteur sees as the basis of education reform do not cover all those which have shaped europe over the centuries. in paragraph 17, the report refers to the full and multifaceted development of the individual, the promotion of respect for human rights and social justice, lifelong learning aimed at personal development and career advancement, the protection of the environment and the well-being of the individual and the community. these are desirable values, but the point is that they have their origin in the christian roots of europe. in short, i believe that christian unity is perhaps the only lasting and fruitful bond. it's a solid foundation. of course, the absence of such a reference is a defect not only of this report but of all community legislation. this leaves us in doubt as to the direction of change. today we say "yes" to good values, but we also ask what those values will be tomorrow?
in writing. - education is definitely the most important topic to which we should pay more attention. particular attention should be paid to the first stage of education, which is preschool. the social environment and the conditions in which children and young people develop must be taken into account. educating young people is our future, it is the future of the european union. we must constantly strive to improve the conditions for learning and to ensure equal opportunities for children and young people, while also taking into account the less privileged, national minorities and foreigners. continuous training of teachers and the introduction of modern teaching methods is a very important element. we need to raise teacher salaries and raise the value of the teaching profession. i think we should also pay attention to young people who want to study in other countries of the european union. financial status should not be a determinant of where young people go, much less of their educational level. i support the report by mr schmitt and i fully agree with the importance of educating young people at all levels of education.
mr. chairman, please! on the night of easter, april 13, before dawn, a great tragedy occurred in the polish town of kamień pomorski near szczecin. over 20 people were burned alive in the building, including children. it was and is a great pain for all of poland. i would like to call on the governments of all the member states, and on local and regional authorities, to take urgent action to check the fire safety of all residential buildings, and especially social housing. i am referring to the use of appropriate building materials and the strict enforcement of fire safety regulations. the tragedy in poland is one of many such cases that unfortunately happened in europe. may this fire and its victims be a great cry and warning for the future.
mr. chairman, please! april brings yet another reflection on the effects of both totalitarianisms. it reminds of the katyn crime, the murder of several thousand polish officers prisoners ostaszkowo, starobielska, kozielska sentenced to death in march 1940 by order of beria. it also recalls the outbreak of the warsaw ghetto uprising in 1943 in protest against the mass deportation of jews by the german occupier to death camps. the drama in the ghetto is the breakthrough for today's march of the living, ensuring that the memory is preserved and that such experiences are not repeated. unfortunately, the katyn crime and its perpetrators have still not been tried. it is hopeful that our parliament has adopted a written declaration recognising 23 august as the day of remembrance for the victims of both totalitarian regimes.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to draw attention to four points in this debate on behalf of the uen group. first, solutions to separate generation, electricity and gas trading from transmission activities should be welcomed. this should allow for competition between producers of energy carriers and thus lower prices for the services provided. secondly, it is important that, given the obligation to introduce the separation of generation from transmission, individual member states may adopt one of three models of this solution: the most far-reaching ownership separation, the transfer of network management to an independent system operator, and finally the possibility of maintaining the integrity of generation and transmission, but with rules ensuring that these two parts of the company will nevertheless operate in practice independently. thirdly, solutions to strengthen the position of the customer on the electricity and gas markets, in particular the possibility to change suppliers of energy carriers within a maximum of three weeks without incurring any additional charges, are noteworthy. fourthly, and lastly, special attention should be paid to social measures requiring member states to provide assistance to electricity and gas consumers who cannot pay their bills.
madam president! the debate on the energy package for the internal market in electricity and gas is needed. in order to work well, regulations should answer questions such as: is there a single energy market in the union or should national markets be coordinated? what kind of energy will ensure stable and sufficient supplies at relatively low prices over the next 30 years, which is important for the union's economy and its citizens? what energy sources will best reduce the greenhouse effect and reduce the cost of mitigating it? unfortunately, the measures taken so far are not transparent and convincing, which could have a negative impact on citizens and the economy in the next 15 years.
madam president! the third energy package was designed to serve customers primarily on our continent. and it did - the customer is the most important, but the basic interests of producers and energy producers would also have to be taken into account. we had two most important tasks. first, security of supply. and it worked. i think that there has been a really significant improvement compared to the first and second packages. the creation of a common energy market is becoming a reality, the principle of solidarity is now self-evident. we can also invest outside the union when our security requires it secondly, the principle of open competition in the european energy market. this has not been entirely successful and we may have to think of other, more concrete solutions. but we must now ensure that investors from third countries are treated on the european market in the same way as investors from the union, not better. and that our energy companies can compete and invest freely outside the union on a reciprocal basis. i wanted to emphasize that the third package is a major political event, not just a technical and economic one. and it really should be seen as a great success for the european union.
madam president! joint and coordinated investment in energy infrastructure is necessary for the success of the single energy area. the key challenge is to increase the generating capacity of european power stations and to develop cross-border networks. at the same time, environmental considerations and the establishment of a climate and energy package should be taken into account. another challenge arising from the harmonisation of the eu energy market is the issue of ensuring the security of external energy supplies. for economic reasons as well as for reasons of safety, it is necessary to seek diversification of supply and to increase efforts to develop european energy. finally, there is the concern that the full opening of the energy market to competition could endanger the union's poorest people, who often cannot afford to pay their bills regularly. it is worth considering possible instruments to ensure that such persons are not deprived of electricity.
in writing. until recently, living in a big-plate house was a social and civilization advancement for many millions of people. cheap energy made it easy to ignore the cost of heating. today, nearly 100 million people live in buildings with a giant slab. i ask the european commission to provide a broad support for projects to modernise these buildings and entire settlements - especially in central and eastern europe - with european union funds. the mid-term review of the financial framework for the period 2007 to 2013 should provide for this purpose. the current 3% limit on regional development fund funds for housing is far too low. large-scale modernisation and revitalisation of buildings and entire large-scale housing estates in the eu will reduce heating costs, raise living standards, create tens of thousands of new jobs and reduce energy consumption. this will translate directly into the kind of greenhouse gas reduction that will bring us closer to the 3x20 target. supporting the modernisation of existing large-scale construction should be one of the tasks of the new european parliament. the demand for such services can make a significant contribution to combating the current economic crisis and unemployment and to combating poverty.
in writing. europe faces many challenges in energy supply and demand in the short, medium and long term. as the european community, we have set ourselves a very ambitious task. we're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020, and we're going to reduce energy consumption by 20 percent. i therefore believe that particular attention should be paid to the energy performance of buildings, as they account for as much as 40% of total energy consumption. i would like to express my support for the rapporteur. i think we should organise an information campaign to make citizens aware of the money saving possibilities of heating buildings, and thus appeal to the governments in all the community countries to possibly co-finance this initiative. we should draw up a set of minimum standards for the insulation of buildings that are uniform throughout the union. i also support extending the use of the structural funds to energy efficiency in buildings to all community countries and increasing the amount of erdf allocation that could be used to implement projects in this area from 3% to 15%.
it's a happy ending, very important before the election too. as part of the 'leave the chamber' procedure, i would like to introduce ms ţicău.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the mobile phone and the internet have become symbols of mobility and innovation. citizens should therefore have broad and easy access to telecommunications services. despite the commissioner's many appeals, the prices of text messages sent from other countries are still on average much higher and far above the national prices for these services. we must try to change this. i commend the commission and the commissioner for their work in this area. the same is true of the internet. why is using this service via a mobile phone a luxury? we are all in favor of ensuring the widest possible access to the internet. reducing the cost of data roaming will certainly help. it is important that this case concerns to a large extent the youngest group of our society.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. i am pleased with the direction we are going in, that is, with the radical reduction of charges (this is the first step, i think there will be others) for calling, roaming, and also internet access. these are factors that can accelerate the implementation of the lisbon strategy. it's important for the educational process, for the younger generation. it is important that network devices can be accessible to people who are relatively poor or have lower incomes. this is a good direction. i'm sure our communities will welcome this news. i thank the commission for that.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 april 2009.
the following are the budgetary reports (a7-06-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the budget of the european union for the financial year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06-06 ) on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the budget of the european union for the financial year 2007/2008 (a7-06-06-06-07 ) on the budget of the european union (a7-06-06-06-06 ) on the budget of the european union (a7-06-06-06 ) on the european union year 2008/2008 (a7-06-06-06-06 ) on the budget of the european union
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner kallas, i have to tell you something. we are talking about the european development fund, which covers the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. from our point of view, these countries are a nonstandard region, nonstandard countries, nonstandard problems. in 2007, we have increased payments and increased commitments in terms of the implementation of the fund, which also means an increase in efficiency, and this is certainly a positive point. and that's where i'd like to start. the fund consisted of two parts: one part managed by the european commission and the other part managed by the european investment bank. the part that was managed by the european commission is the part that is the subject of the discharge debate, while the part that is managed by the european investment bank is still beyond our scope. i'll be back to that. the basis of our debate is the court of auditors' position. the court of auditors clearly stated that the turnover, liabilities and revenue for 2007 as a whole were legal and regular, but that there was a high fiduciary risk associated with budget support, including because of the commission's so-called 'dynamic interpretation' of the eligibility criterion. however, the audit revealed a significant level of error and indicated, we agree that rapid improvement in supervision and control is necessary. the possibilities are there, and we share that view. the sample selected for the verification was composed of 6 countries, representing 250 transactions. one very important point is that the commission is still not in a position to provide complete accounting information. we welcomed the declaration that the new system would be operational from february 2009. i hope commissioner kallas will confirm that fact. another very important thing is to distinguish in contracts between words and actions. the drafting and signing of the document is very confusing. the commission has to explain this, especially since the countries of the region also have different approaches. it is very important for us as parliament not only to assess the correctness of the report after the fact but also to give it a control and audit nature so that we can prevent any possible deviations. avoiding deviations also helps to assess the benefits we derive from the allocation of funds. it is not just a question of accounting for the correctness of the accounts, but also of the degree to which the objective has been achieved, and from this point of view we point out the need to cooperate with the national parliaments, which should have a good understanding of this issue. it's about working with the authorities, the governments, and also with civil society. the aspect which seems particularly important is the question of the control of the funds managed by the european investment bank. the european investment bank remains, in our view, an institution that cannot be controlled. we very clearly state in the report that the european investment bank had €2.2 billion at its disposal. these were public funds, not funds from the financial markets. the european investment bank therefore appears to be the least democratic institution with public funds. in closing, i would like to thank commissioner kallass for his cooperation during this term. i would like to thank the court of auditors, in the name of mr jacques luczkiewicz, member of the court of auditors. i thank my colleagues on the committee on development and the committee on budgetary control, which mr bosch has led with efficiency and substance.
the next speaker is mr christofer fjellner. i would like to inform you that the rapporteur, mr søren bo søndergaard, will be arriving later because of a delayed flight, and i will therefore give him the floor later.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this is the fifth time i have stood before you as you prepare to vote on a commission discharge resolution. and, for the fifth time, i must admit that – despite unquestionable progress in budget execution – we still do not have a positive das. in the draft resolution before you (paragraph 58), the rapporteur…"demande, sans délai, à la commission de livrer ses propositions pour atteindre l'objectif d'une das positive". so i will do this, ‘sans délai’. i will give the three main reasons why, in my view, we did not achieve a positive das, although this was the objective set at the beginning of the current commission mandate. we probably relied too much at the beginning on member states sharing our concern about the negative public and political impact of the negative das when, in fact, our call for action only really became effective when backed up by the policy of ‘warn, solve or suspend payments’. so there was too much carrot and too little stick initially. we have also pursued evolution rather than revolution. we put aside more radical solutions, for instance on simplification, in our pioneering attempt to fix the das. obviously, five years for our action plan was not enough. some results of our action plan are only now starting to show their impact. the next commission will reap the benefits, which without the action plan could not be expected. but your question is, ‘how and when can you guarantee a positive das?’ first, i should remind honourable members what the so-called ‘negative das’ is. article 248 of the treaty gives the court of auditors the task of providing a statement of assurance ‘as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions’. it was inserted into the maastricht treaty at the last moment without any real discussion about the implications. this has proven highly problematic since. the so-called negative das is part of the court of auditors’ opinion. it says that certain areas of expenditure are still materially affected by errors, although to different levels. the court also states that our annual accounts are reliable and gives many positive and adequate comments about our financial management. as such, the das does not sound at all special, compared to how audit opinions are generally phrased. but we face a highly politicised and often deliberate misinterpretation of this sentence. so i must confess that it has surprised me how difficult it is to convince elected politicians and public opinion that budget management in the european union is much better than what is reflected in this sentence. so we must do something to end this damaging political assessment of the use of european funds. for urgent, more guaranteed results, one could imagine three options: option one: change the treaty. the way the current treaty is phrased, the reasonable public expectation for sound financial management has been undermined – automatically and almost inevitably – every year since the maastricht treaty entered into force. during the intergovernmental conference on the lisbon treaty, i looked at whether one could fix article 248 of the treaty. together with the court, we looked at what could be a more realistic task for the court, perhaps covering the budget over a three-year cycle, rather than annually, and asking the court to take into account that most commission control systems are multi-annual, ensuring that errors are corrected over time. we contacted several national delegations: they all agreed; nobody acted. option two: i now come to the second option and the most radical short cut to the positive das. under the current treaty we should perhaps stop allocating funds to management schemes so complex that we cannot meet the current low thresholds for error. if we cannot collectively handle the current sophistication, then we must simplify. ‘simplify’ is a nice word which everybody likes. there are millions of transactions to check. how could 480 auditors, based in luxembourg, however competent, working with a very complex legislative environment, in 27 member states with 23 official languages, possibly have the basis for issuing a statement each year on the legality and regularity of all underlying transactions in all spending areas? if you wish simplification to have a quick and effective impact on the error rate, my view is that it means abandoning shared management in some areas. it means reducing the number of transactions from millions to a few thousand. taking the example of the structural funds, it would mean clearly defining the responsibilities that are currently shared. to achieve that, the structural funds could be turned into budget support to the poorer regions. an eligible region or member state would see eu funds channelled into the state budget, to be spent via national systems, under the exclusive accountability of the minister of finance, and audited by the supreme audit institutions of member states. a member state would get one annual tranche from the eu budget, and would be accountable to its own citizens and other member states based on results. eligibility rules, procurement procedures and absorption rates would no longer be a european problem. in this radical scenario, we would drop the millions of projects too small and sophisticated to be under arms-length oversight from brussels. no more small, creative projects ending up being ridiculed in the euro-sceptic press! option three: if you cannot change the treaty or its interpretation, we could perhaps discuss what it means for a given type of transaction to be ‘ok’. we could set realistic and cost-effective thresholds for what ‘legal and regular’ is. this is the discussion about tolerable risk. for the moment, the court applies a uniform 2% materiality threshold across the board. the court itself has asked for better risk analysis and political agreement on the tolerable risk in various budget areas. to move this discussion forward, you now have a communication from the commission on the table. your rapporteur is suggesting welcoming this communication as a ‘solid methodological basis’ and calls for further analysis, data collection, dialogue and concrete proposals. i would be grateful for this support and suggest we move ahead as quickly as possible. the council also now seems ready to engage. based on your overall political support, the commission would like to proceed with proposals to set specific tolerable risk levels, budget heading by budget heading. for each future spending proposal, you would be asked to ‘tolerate’ a carefully calculated level of risk, so that the court – hopefully – would adjust its materiality threshold on that basis. we must start now. if we wait for a revised financial regulation, or indeed the next financial perspectives after 2013, this would not be reflected in the discharge procedure for the next five years. ladies and gentlemen, today you are preparing to vote on whether to grant discharge for 2007, a year for which the auditors now say that for all budget areas except that the structural funds, as much as 95% or more of the payments are free from serious financial error. this is the best das ever, an improvement over last year, for a year with higher payment levels, in an increased number of member states, the eu-27. our financial management is steadily improving and it is certainly good enough to deserve discharge. but it cannot stand the test of perfection. the eu was created to bring peace and prosperity. it has delivered so far. obviously, looking at the eu’s institutional set-up, it is possible that no auditor was present at its creation and so it is not perfect. but audit perfection is a rare phenomenon anywhere in the world. thank you for your attention and please vote in favour of discharge. you will see no complacency from the commission.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the committee on regional development has analysed the court of auditors' work very closely, but has also actively participated in the extremely insightful work of the committee on budgetary control. looking at the results of the previous discharge, as well as this one, we can see a substantial improvement in the commission's performance in terms of the level of controls. however, the first visible effects - we are aware of this - will only be seen in the coming years once the action plan is in place. it is important to our committee that the findings in the court's report do not distort the understanding of the essence of cohesion policy in the european union's policies and do not undermine the objectives of this policy. we also take care that the errors indicated are not confused with irregularities and possible abuses. overall, we believe that progress is being made and we will try to support the commission's discharge.
i would like to inform you that we have not heard the views of the committee on development, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on culture and education, because the rapporteurs did not arrive in time for the debates, hence the change of order of speakers. we're going to continue this discussion. on behalf of the european people's party, mr markus ferber will speak for a minute and a half.
in writing. migration to europe is a long-standing phenomenon, fostered by factors such as the substantial material differences in living standards between europe and other regions of the world. europe is in dire need of a common approach to immigration in the eu. the inaction of one member state can have a direct impact on other member states. poor migration management can have serious consequences for the countries of origin and for the migrants themselves. it should be noted that legal immigration is a positive phenomenon, providing opportunities that can be used by many parties. migrants have played a very important role in the development of the european union in recent decades, which continues to need their work. a common political vision is therefore needed, based on past achievements and looking to the future. to achieve this, more effective cooperation is needed. especially at the new southern and eastern borders of the union, there are many people who decide to cross the border at the risk of their lives and health. thousands of them die at sea looking for a better life. immigration is one of the most serious challenges facing europe today, and it's up to us to respond to it. we can turn it into an opportunity or we can hurt many by misusing it.
in writing. in the closing days of the current european parliament term, we have the opportunity to comment on the commission's approach to the community's largest infrastructure project, the trans-european transport network, which is due to be revised in the near future. the current stage of the network is the construction of its parts in the territories of the member states. the logical next step, and the final stage in creating a coherent network, will be to integrate the individual elements of the national components into a trans-european body. the european union is a changing geography. therefore, it appears justified to adjust the network mapping. the financial needs of this investment are therefore changing. the final integration phase of the network should place greater emphasis on financing its cross-border components. improving the quality of existing and building new, modern transport links in europe has the effect of reducing road accidents, which remains our constant priority in the fight for better mobility for eu citizens. at the same time, the introduction of all technological innovations, and more recently the widespread use of intelligent transport systems, is justified by the priorities of european infrastructure in the 21st century.
madam president! the introduction of solvency ii, a change in the system of insurance business and supervision that has been in the works for the past few years, is a major step forward, especially in the wake of the financial crisis. i have been working in pension systems for many years and i am aware of the importance of financial supervision of pension funds in relation to the mobility of workers and the need for cross-border supervision. while encouraging such mobility, we must ensure that workers moving between countries of employment and insurance systems have the assurance that their insurance contributions are deducted correctly, that they are paid into the right accounts and that the security of their expected future retirement will be enhanced by community solutions to investment rules and supervision of pension funds. i congratulate ceiops and its advisory panel, in whose work i had the honour of participating until september 2007, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr peter skinner.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. earlier this month, we learned that all the measures to counter the financial crisis had been taken. it's going to increase the budget of the international monetary fund by 500 billion dollars, or three times. 100 billion will make the world bank rich. finally, 250 billion was allocated to finance international trade. there will be allegedly tighter financial market supervision, control of tax havens and bankers' salaries. president barack obama said the g-20 summit that just ended will be a turning point in the global economic recovery. i don't think there's anything to worry about. with one exception, perhaps. why have world leaders delayed so long in implementing their mysterious and bailout plan and not considered reviving the world economy sooner? do they not have that billion? so the big question is, where did that trillion come from? from selling 400 tons of gold? i'm told there's no mention of it in the official communiqués. or maybe it was borrowed from a bank? if there is such a revival now, then maybe the leaders - and i'm asking mr barroso and mr topolanka - will meet again and throw in another billion. so we can have some turbo-food.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my strong support for the commission's proposal to double the amount of financial assistance allowed for new non-euro area member states. i would like to congratulate the commission on its swift response and to thank our rapporteur, mrs pervenche berès. the current crisis has shown beyond doubt that new non-euro area member states can be highly vulnerable to financial market fluctuations, often through no fault of their own. it was mentioned here that the european union's assistance should be based on the principle of solidarity. i fully agree with that, but i would add that it is also a requirement because the crisis did not originate in the new member states and they are not responsible for the turmoil in the financial markets, and therefore aid to them is fully justified. at the same time, i would add that, regardless of the appreciation and support for this proposal, the most effective method of eliminating similar threats in the future is to allow these countries to join the euro area as soon as possible. it will also be less costly and will ensure greater stability for the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i wholeheartedly support mrs berès' report and i see that the very fact that we already have the g20 instead of the g8 is a considerable step forward. i think that the positions taken in london, especially by the europeans, are reasonable, but we must not stop there. it is not just about gaining greater control over the markets, the hedge funds, and supporting our balance sheets and the economy with billions of dollars. the world monetary system is not working well because we don't know exactly how much goods and services cost in different countries. the idea of introducing a world currency or at least a common policy system involving a few major currencies should be considered. china, russia, many developing countries, but also the new members of the union, we all need stability and rules of the game. however, commissioner, this also depends on us, on the union.
the rapporteur. − in july 2006, the commission presented a strategy to reduce the overall risk and negative impact of pesticides on human health and the environment. the last element of this strategy is the proposed pesticide application machinery directive amending the machinery directive 2006/42/ec. the directive lays down requirements that must be met by machinery and application equipment in order to limit the adverse effects of pesticides on the environment, the operator and the surrounding area. the establishment of these requirements will reduce the differences between the rules and procedures adopted for the application of pesticides in certain community countries, ensure a uniform level of environmental protection in the community, and allow the free movement of these machines on the union market, which is of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most frequent producers of these machines. the draft directive and amendments were discussed at workshops, meetings with representatives of the council, the commission, the shadow rapporteurs, stakeholders and during tripartite talks. due to the considerable technical differences between the various types of machinery ranging from straight, hand-operated to self-propelled, operated by qualified operators , parts of the amendments were omitted and it was decided that they would be included in the standards in question, which were commissioned by the commission to the european committee for standardisation. this has led to a consensus, amendment no 39 has been adopted and the council has confirmed this position. i am particularly grateful for the assistance and cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and council representatives, the imco commission administration and the institutions concerned. i am calling for a directive to help protect the environment, operators and the surrounding area when pesticides are applied.
in writing. − member states cooperate in the field of public protection within the framework of national legislation and on the basis of international agreements. the council decision (2002/956/jha) provides for the protection of public persons in accordance with the national provisions of the member state concerned or on the basis of the rules of an organisation or institution of an international or transnational character. protection of public persons is a responsibility of the host member state in view of the threats to public figures in recent years, i fully support the decision taken to amend the existing council decision establishing a european public protection network. its main objective is to extend the scope of article 2 to include the definition of 'public person' as any person, whether in public office or not, who is considered to be at risk because of his or her voice or influence in public debate. i believe that this decision will increase the safety of the public and will have a positive impact on the development of democracy.
in writing. − the european parliament's pesticide application machinery directive amending directive 2006/42/ec of 17 may 2006 on machinery makes a very important improvement to the legal provisions. it is designed to harmonise environmental and human health standards in the european union. at the same time, the harmonisation of rules will allow for a smooth flow of machinery and thus increase competitiveness on the european market. the directive will require member states to carry out regular inspections of professional pesticide application equipment and to establish a system of regular maintenance and periodic inspection of the equipment. as a result, the directive will reduce the use of pesticides (thus reducing their negative impact on the environment) and will have a positive impact on the health of consumers and citizens who come into direct contact with pesticides at work.
in writing. − the high cost of roaming in the european community is a problem that both hinders the process of european integration and limits the freedom of movement of citizens within the european union. in today's vote i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution amending regulation (ec) no 717/2007 and directive 2002/21/ec, which will gradually reduce the maximum cost of roaming within the eu from 1 july 2009 until 2011. the maximum rates for outgoing and incoming calls will be reduced by 4 cents per year and will eventually, in 2011, be eur 0,35 and eur 0,11 per minute respectively. in addition, from 1 july 2009 operators will have to use secondary charging and text messaging will not cost more than eur 0.11. the cost of data transmission will also be reduced, to eur 0.50 per megabyte in 2011. i strongly support the report. it is another step towards a social europe in which people, their freedom, their liberty and the improvement of their standard of living come first.
in writing. - the third and sixth directives (78/855/eec,82/891/eec) concern national mergers and divisions of public limited companies, and currently contain a number of specific reporting requirements which companies involved in a merger or division must comply with, at considerable cost. the measures for shareholder information provided for in the directives were laid down 30 years ago and do not take into account today's technological possibilities. this generates unnecessary costs for the companies. in this context, the commission proposal on the reduction of administrative burden in relation to reporting and documentation requirements in case of mergers and divisions should be welcomed. efforts to align the provisions of both directives as far as possible should be particularly encouraged, in particular by eliminating duplication of requirements for expert reports, disclosing draft terms of merger and aligning the provisions on creditor protection of the third and sixth directives with those of the second directive. it also seems justified to introduce the obligation to publish complete information on companies on their websites and to link to it on a central digital platform, which is to be approved definitively by the commission shortly. this requirement will undoubtedly contribute to increased transparency, with the additional obligation to keep the data published up to date. the solutions proposed above are designed to facilitate the daily operation of european companies. however, the actual reduction in administrative burdens will depend on how they are implemented by member states, companies and shareholders themselves.
in writing. − relations between the european communities and turkmenistan are currently based on the 1989 agreement on trade and commercial and economic cooperation between the communities and the ussr. there is no doubt that the level of economic development and, above all, the protection of human rights in turkmenistan is not satisfactory. turkmenistan has not fulfilled a number of humanitarian requirements (among others, red cross operations are still not allowed on its territory). i believe that the initialling of a transitional trade agreement between the european community and turkmenistan, which clearly stipulates that the principles of democracy and respect for human rights must be brought closer to union standards within five years, will be a motivation and a sign of goodwill on the part of the community. the signing of the agreement may have an impact on improving the living conditions of the citizens of turkmenistan, as well as on the implementation of economic reforms. the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement can only be considered in the event of a visible improvement in respect for the principles of democracy and human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr busuttil. this is an important report because migration is one of the most important challenges facing the european union. it is true that we are not able to take advantage of the good things about migration and prevent these phenomena, which cannot be considered positive in any way. an additional difficulty is that migration takes different forms in different member states. the differences in this range are huge. for some, it is a huge social, financial, and political problem. for others, it's a marginal phenomenon that doesn't generate much interest. this is one of the reasons why it is so difficult to define and implement a uniform policy on migration. we should also be aware that for many people, staying in europe is a matter of life and death. i mean, literally. sending them back to their country of origin is practically a death sentence. therefore, the tools of immigration policy should be flexible so that they can be adapted to the individual cases of specific individuals. thank you very much. thank you.
member of the commission. − as i said, when we talk about the real economy and the countries of eastern europe, the financial possibilities which we have in our hands are truly limited. that is why we try to leverage as much of the money as we can from other financial institutions. that is why i mentioned that the money, which actually amounts to eur 71 million, has also triggered the financing of large infrastructure projects, which are more than eur 2.5 billion. so the honest answer would be, i think, that all of us there are in deep trouble, and that certainly one has to keep a close eye on what is happening in this region, because we are highly interconnected with them and many european countries have deep trade relations with this region. concerning the possibility of macro-financial assistance, there are many countries among the countries which have the potential to become member states, which are candidates or potential candidates, which have requested this. it is true that serbia requested it. it is highly likely that montenegro will also request it. from the countries of the southern region, practically all but russia and azerbaijan have requested it. the potential for macro-financial assistance is, to be honest, rather limited, and the list of countries asking for this support is quite long. i think that the major instrument – that is why this discussion was very much one of the topics of the g20 summit – should be channelled via imf support. we are very much in favour of this kind of activity and strengthened role or capitalisation of the imf in this direction, because this is certainly a global problem. i could also mention that this macro-financial assistance, if it is given to any of these states, should also go through the consultation process via the european parliament.
member of the commission. − firstly, i would like to mention that it is important to clarify that the efta states that are parties to the eea agreement – that is, norway, iceland and liechtenstein – are subject to strict state aid discipline based on the eu model. article 61 of the eea agreement is closely modelled on article 87 of the ec treaty. the efta surveillance authority (esa) is in charge of its implementation. under protocol 26 of the eea agreement, it is entrusted with equivalent powers to those of the european commission in the field of state aid. those states must notify any new state aid measure to the esa and get its approval before putting it into effect. the esa may also investigate alleged incompatible aid granted by these efta countries. switzerland is a different case, because it has not ratified the eea agreement. with switzerland, the state aid rules are those laid down in the 1972 agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. under article 23 thereof, state aid which affects trade between the community and switzerland and distorts or threatens to distort competition is incompatible with the agreement. procedurally, in case of incompatible aid, the affected party can refer the matter to the joint committee established by the agreement and it can take safeguard measures if the granting party fails to put an end to the practice in question. while remedies for incompatible aid are harder to obtain in swiss cases, the commission still endeavours to apply the provisions of the 1972 free trade agreement whenever possible and necessary. for example, on 13 february 2007, it took a decision concluding that three swiss cantonal tax regimes were incompatible with the 1972 agreement, and it is currently negotiating with the swiss authorities in order to find a satisfactory solution to this issue. the commission is aware that provisions on state aid found in existing trade agreements, such as the 1972 agreement with switzerland, need to be improved and that is why, in line with the conclusions of its 2006 communication ‘global europe: competing in the world’, the objective of the commission is to try and negotiate stronger rules on state aid and better remedies, such as the application of a dispute settlement mechanism, in future free trade agreements.
member of the commission. − i am very happy with your question, for you can be of help because we need more information. so far we do not have the information on this case in the 100% form that we badly need. even then it is not guaranteed that we can be successful but it is worth a try. to form an opinion on the existence of state aid, not to mention its incompatibility under the 1972 agreement with switzerland, not only services but also the production or trading of goods should be involved. so please push those who you are close to so that they give us the information. in addition, i would invite the persons and undertakings concerned in ireland to provide any further information they may have on this case to the commission services, to enable us to take a position. i must add, and it is open and honest to say so, that under the 1972 agreement the affected party can only ask the party granting the aid to put an end to the measure and, in a decision adopted in 2007, the commission concluded that those measures constitute state aid that is incompatible with the 1972 agreement with switzerland. following that decision, the swiss authorities have entered into a dialogue with the commission to find an appropriate solution. the latest technical meeting took place on 13 february 2009. so the swiss authorities have provided some constructive proposals such as the abolition of the tax exemption for management companies. however, the preferential treatment of holding and mixed companies remains to a large extent. that is why further discussions are badly needed.
member of the commission. − the commission would like to underline that in the case of the polish shipyards it applied exactly the same rules as for any other case of restructuring state aid and it treats poland in the same way as any other member state. the difficulties faced by the shipyards had started in the 1990s, to be precise in 1990, well before the polish accession to the eu, and were by the way not caused by the current financial and economic crisis. in 2004, the commission started investigating restructuring aid for the polish shipyards. the situation of the polish shipyards cannot therefore be compared with that of other companies which have specific problems linked with the current financial crisis. the gdynia and szczecin yards have benefited from state support for many years at the expense of other shipyards in europe. unfortunately, the aid granted to the polish shipyards was not spent on investments and the necessary restructuring. what is more, the yards continued to make losses, were unable to pay taxes and social security obligations and have accumulated significant debts. for those reasons the commission had no other option but to adopt final negative decisions for the gdynia and szczecin shipyards, ordering recovery of the illegal and incompatible aid granted to the yards. however, in order to limit the adverse economic and social consequences of these decisions, the commission authorised poland to implement the recovery of the illegal aid through a controlled sale of the yards’ assets and subsequent liquidation of the companies. that should maximise opportunities for viable economic activities to continue at those sites. it should in particular be noted that, if the sale process is successful and correctly implemented, companies acquiring the shipyard assets will not have to repay the illegal subsidies, even if they choose to continue shipbuilding. the commission would also like to point out that structural funds, and in particular the european social fund and the european regional development fund, could be used to cushion the social consequences of job losses. furthermore, the use of the european globalisation fund can be considered under certain circumstances and conditions.
i'm not going to let you down. i understand that you are responsible for monitoring the level of public aid to enterprises, but the polish public has the impression that unfortunately polish shipyards and enterprises in the countries of the old union are treated differently, that there is a consent to save jobs here, and in polish shipyards there is no consent to save jobs. and that inequality is very painful. we want equal treatment for businesses in the old and the new european union. by the way, commissioner, i would like to ask what the commission's doubts are about the restructuring programme for gdańsk shipyard.
on paper. this report aims to support european artists by extending the term of copyright protection for phonograms from the current 50 years to 70. the document also provides for the establishment of a fund for session musicians, funded by contributions from producers - corresponding to a minimum of 20% of their annual income from the renewal of copyright. after 50 years from the publication of the phonogram, if the producer does not make it available to the public, the performer may terminate the contract. it's a new, albeit cosmetic, change in copyright law that urgently requires a major overhaul. copyright existed before the internet, and its solutions are from another era. now we need a new approach to this issue. the existing legislation, including directive 2006/116/ec of 12 december 2006, has not filled the legal loophole created by the development of new technologies. the adoption by the european parliament of the crowley report will help to protect multiculturalism and promote the competitiveness of the music industry on the world market. parliament also asked the commission to assess the need for a similar extension of the protection of performers' and producers' rights in the audiovisual sector. no later than 1 january 2010, the commission is to submit a report on the results of this evaluation to the european parliament, the council and the economic and social committee. we have to wait for the copyright law to be fully implemented.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr. savary on his work. communication is a fundamental problem in cities. these matters are, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, subject to national legislation, especially local legislation. however, the seriousness of the problem must be recognised and some assistance and coordination must be provided at european level. this is about promoting good practices as well as innovative, technical and organisational solutions. the so-called intelligent urban transport systems, which allow for efficient management and safety of urban traffic, require particular support. the use of telematics, which combines transport, information technology and telecommunications, is useful here. modal solutions are needed that use different means of public transport and reduce congestion in city centres. i believe that it is necessary to change the patterns of urban development so that urban transport is friendly to people and the environment. i also support the idea of creating a special financial fund for urban mobility in the future. the rapporteur has stressed that almost 80% of the eu population lives in cities. they're wasting their time because of the transportation. let's not waste any more time.
in writing. modern times require rapid adaptation of transport to the ever-growing tasks and expectations of society. i therefore find it extremely useful to implement intelligent transport systems (its). it should be noted that the present state of road transport is very worrying. this is illustrated by figures such as:- the number of fatalities on eu roads - around 43 000 in 2006, including around 5500 in poland;- the cost of traffic congestion in eu countries on an annual basis - around 1% of gdp;- co2 emissions from road transport - around 70% of global emissions. this requires:optimal use of data on european roads, traffic density;ensuring the continuity and reliability of its in relation to european transport corridors and urban agglomerations;widespread use of telematics in large cities, which is a combination of transport, information technology and telecommunications;fast and harmonised implementation of applications to enhance road safety, such as ecall, adas and others;better integration of transport infrastructure with and between vehicles;ensuring the protection of personal data of system users; pan-european coordination taking into account the experiences and good practices of leading countries. let us therefore try to implement its across the union for all modes of transport and all passengers, including both public and private transport.
, on behalf of the uen group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied. in taking part in this debate on behalf of the uen group, i would like to draw attention to the following points: despite the ambitious objectives of reducing road congestion, reducing the environmental impact of road transport, and promoting short sea shipping, rail, inland waterway and combined transport modes in freight transport, the funds allocated to the marco polo programme are only used up half of the time each year and the objectives of the programme are only implemented by 60%. the european commission's proposals for simplifying the programme should therefore be supported, in particular: participation in the programme by even small, individual undertakings without the need to set up consortia; a clear reduction in the threshold for tonne-kilometres required to qualify for the programme; an increase in the intensity of funding, by increasing the financial assistance from one euro to two euros for every 500 tonne-kilometres transferred from road transport; simplification of the procedures for granting financial assistance. i would like to express the hope that all these measures will help to make better use of the funds from this programme.
mr. chairman, please! the definition of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare is an urgent task. patients have the right to know the conditions under which they will receive medical care, whether they have to travel for unforeseen reasons or decide to go to a healthcare facility in another eu country because of the difficulty of accessing specific medical services in their own country. he should be informed of any financial burden he will have to bear and of the possibility of pre-financing. he should also be guaranteed access to reliable information on the quality of services available in recommended health centres. i'm thinking about reference networks and information points. patients should be guaranteed information on their rights in the event of harm caused by inappropriate treatment and information on reciprocal recognition of prescriptions. monitoring of cross-border healthcare will be useful for assessing the situation. i wish mr. john bowes a speedy recovery.
mr. chairman, please! with the regulation of treatment options in other eu member states following the adoption of the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, not only will there be a breach of previous provisions on community intervention in healthcare systems, but treatment options will be created, especially for wealthy patients, with access to medical care for the sick being made more difficult, especially in poor member states. the scenario of granting special privileges to the elites in access to high quality healthcare is currently being implemented by the liberal government in poland, leading to the privatisation of public institutions and depriving the majority of the population of the possibility of treatment. notwithstanding the court's opinion, human health should not be a marketable commodity but an inalienable right which must be guaranteed by the public health service in accordance with the principle of respecting and protecting the right to life and health and the inalienable dignity of the human person.
mr. chairman, please! it is not good when the court decides on the rights of citizens, but it is very bad when this situation is repeated and when the european court of justice does it all the time instead of parliament and the council. i therefore welcome the report by mr bowes, wishing him well and seeing in it the opportunity to improve the standards of health care in my country, poland. however, i would like to draw your attention to three important elements of this report. first, i think it's a mistake to treat health care as a purely market service. the right to such care is guaranteed to citizens by both their national constitutions and european union law. that's why we need to change the legal basis. secondly, the use of cross-border care must be based on the informed choice of the patient, not on coercion. and third, treatment in another member state must be determined by the needs of the patient, not the size of his or her portfolio. i am convinced that a european area open to healthy citizens must also be open to citizens who are sick and need help in another member state.
mr. president, i have to go. as a member of the pension fund, i would like to say that, apart from reporting this, i cannot imagine a situation where more than 400 members of parliament would now come forward and report this fact, because that would make any vote today completely impossible. i would suggest a common sense solution to this situation. there's a list of the members of the fund, you can join it, and i think that's enough.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a paradox that nuclear weapons were a major factor in preventing the cold war from ending in world war iii. this was because both sides were convinced that its use would lead to total mutual annihilation. today, the situation is different. of course, nuclear weapons cannot be viewed in this way, but it is important to realize that they are viewed as extremely important by many nations. for many countries, it's a symbol of their power status, for others, it's the ultimate deterrent, as in the case of israel, and for others, it's a compensation for weakness in conventional weapons, as in the case of russia. so nuclear disarmament, which is obviously something that we must pursue, cannot be a quick process, and president obama is well aware of that. the key thing right now is not to spread these weapons and we need to be aware of the threat that certain groups pose, and bin laden made that very clear when he said that getting weapons of mass destruction is a religious duty. non-spread is a very basic thing.
on paper. the rights of disabled people are regularly violated. recently, in my hometown of poznan, a very symptomatic event occurred. one of the deputies in the polish sejm parked his car in a place reserved for disabled people. the paradox is that this mp has a friend who is disabled. why am i bringing this up? no laws, conventions, or documents will improve the situation of people with disabilities if public officials so openly and with impunity violate the rules designed to help people with disabilities live and function. conventions are of course very important, but their real, sound and full implementation is equally important. disabled people don't enjoy rights that are only on paper. people with disabilities are looking for real change that equalises their opportunities. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. in the debate on tax fraud in the area of savings tax and vat, i would like to draw attention to the following points: 1.the amount of tax fraud in all tax jurisdictions in the european union is around eur 200 billion a year. this is more than 2% of the gnp of the member states, so it is a huge amount of public spending in the member states. 2.it is good that the new directive fills the gaps in tax legislation and also seeks to prevent new tax avoidance strategies, taking into account the imagination of fraudsters. the issue of tax havens located in the eu and in the dependent territories of eu member states was also raised. the current financial crisis has shown that tolerating the opacity of tax rules, the anonymity of transactions and the lack of tax cooperation may provide additional revenue to individual countries and dependent territories in the short term, but in the long term it destabilises financial systems and can lead to severe financial crises.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i represent president barroso today in this discussion on our 2007 annual report on monitoring the application of community law. the president asked me to convey his disappointment that he was unable to participate in this debate. the commission welcomes the support given by parliament to the approach it adopted in its 2007 communication 'towards a europe of results application of community law'. the commission attaches great importance to the correct application of community law. this is one of the priorities of the barroso commission. this is why the commission has made a particular effort to improve its working methods, for the benefit of citizens and businesses, as explained in the 2007 communication. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. first, there was the introduction in january last year of more frequent decision-making in infringement proceedings in order to facilitate the advancement of cases; secondly, the introduction of the european union pilot project in april last year with 15 member states is testing a new method to improve problem solving and the availability of information. thirdly, the main objective of this initiative, which is close to parliament's interests, is to better serve the interests of citizens and businesses with regard to the issues and problems they have identified in the application of community law, including breaches of community law; fourthly, however, the commission will continue to decide to pursue infringements in the event of non-compliance in the context of the european union pilot project, in particular through infringement procedures; fifth, president barroso provided the chair of the parliament's legal affairs committee, mr gargani, with factual information on the operation of the pilot project in december 2008. the letter also confirmed the commission's intention to send parliament a detailed report on the first year of operation of the project. preparatory work has begun. the commission also adopted, following the communication, a more political annual report. while it continues to report on the work done in the previous year, it also seeks to identify priorities for the application of community law and a programme to implement these priorities. the report constitutes an important strategic statement by the commission on a key aspect of the better regulation programme. one of the aims of this initiative is to provide more useful information to parliament to better guide the interinstitutional discussions to follow. parliament welcomes the identification of priorities in the 2008 annual report, in particular those concerning fundamental rights and quality of life. for the first time, the commission sets out in its annual report more precise priorities in the various sectors. the objective remains to work more focused on actions that will produce more effective results in the interests of all citizens and businesses. the actions taken on the priorities identified last year and the progress made will be reported in this year's annual report, as will the new priorities for 2009-2010. thank you. i look forward with great interest to hearing the contributions of the various members of this debate and i will give some answers to mrs frassoni at the end of this debate.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. one of the key principles of the european union is that member states are obliged to implement and apply community law. this principle is the basis of the integration process. there is no doubt that the commission and the member states need to cooperate actively and continuously in order to provide swift and effective answers to citizens' concerns and to criticise and correct breaches in the application of community law. i welcome the commission's declaration on close cooperation with the european parliament on reporting and the application of community law. national courts play a vital role in the application of community law, and i therefore fully support the commission's efforts to provide additional training for national judges, members of the legal profession and officials of national administrations. however, the effective application of community law continues to face serious challenges, including widespread delays in the transposition of directives. one of the most important mechanisms for checking the actual application of european law is the system of preliminary rulings, the purpose of which is to enable national courts to ensure uniform interpretation and application of european law in all member states. the main problem with the references for preliminary rulings procedure is the waiting time for the court's reply, which unfortunately still amounts to about 20 months. the reason is always the same the translation of procedural documents into all the languages of the union. it takes about nine months. of course, these translations are extremely important, as they provide wide access to the latest and most important european case law and it is translations that improve the legal certainty of the european union. however, the success or failure of effective implementation of eu law will ultimately be determined by the appropriate institutional model. knowledge and means are not everything. it also takes a will to act.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. as in previous years, the commission did not take a position on the issues raised in last year's resolution on the control of the application of community law, which i was the author of. in this respect, the lack of improvement in three key areas remains a concern: transparency, resources and the length of procedures. of the new infringements in 2007, 1196 concerned the failure to notify national measures transposing community directives. it seems unacceptable that the commission should have allowed itself a period of up to 12 months to deal with these simple cases, which in principle require no analysis or assessment beyond the need to react quickly. the 'eu pilot' pilot project, launched a year ago in 15 countries to test a new method of responding to complaints, could be extended to other member states, but the lack of information on the evaluation of its operation does not allow parliament to take a position on this issue. i regret that no significant progress has been made in the current term of office with regard to the role that parliament should play in the process of monitoring the application of community law. it is therefore necessary to call for the immediate implementation of the relevant reforms proposed by the reform working party, which enhance parliament's capacity to monitor the application of community law in the member states.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what moves me most about the change in afghan law is the denial of women's right to medical treatment. this includes not leaving the house without her husband's permission and not submitting to a medical examination. afghanistan is a country where, as a result of years of civil war, the equipment of hospitals is in a disastrous state. because of the mines, access to water is restricted. lack of traditional intergenerational hygiene skills and ability to cope with minor ailments without medical assistance. a mother will not tell a young woman that a baby should be bathed in chamomile because it is repugnant. too often, the mother has simply been murdered before. adding to this the drama of denial of access to a doctor, to a medical facility, could have disastrous consequences for an entire generation. despite cultural differences, efforts should be made to resolve this problem.
mr. chairman, please! despite afghanistan being a signatory to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, and president hamid karzai's government decreeing gender equality before the law and guaranteeing women one-quarter of the seats in parliament, afghan women are still treated as second-class citizens in the country. for many afghan fundamentalists, women belong at home, not at school or work. for example, a law recently passed by both houses of parliament and signed by the president states that women have the right to go outside the home, to study, to seek employment, or to seek medical care, only with the consent of a husband or father. also, the law grants legal custody of children only to fathers and grandparents. fortunately, this law has not yet been implemented. the bill, which has been the subject of numerous protests both at home and abroad, has been sent to the ministry of justice to examine its constitutionality and compliance with international treaties. the european parliament should strongly demand that the afghan authorities repeal this law, which is clearly contrary to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. we should also strongly demand that the afghan ministry of justice repeal all other laws discriminating against women. the european union as a community must stand with all those who are fighting for women's rights in afghanistan, so that what has been achieved in this area is not destroyed.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is a saying: if you say "a", you should say "be". that is a phrase that fits in with our debate today, which is primarily about funding the special court for sierra leone. true, we are living in a time of crisis, and the court, supported by voluntary contributions from various countries, is consuming large amounts of money. but we must not allow this unique body to end its work in international disgrace. and it would be a shame to end his work and release the defendants for financial reasons. it is the duty of the european union, and i believe the united nations in particular, to see that the work of the court is completed, that it is financed and that the sentences imposed by the court are enforced. the work of the tribunal and its high costs are also the subject of great controversy in sierra leone itself, as a result of the fact that there are many people waiting for compensation in one of the poorest countries in the world. that's why, in settling the past, we can't forget the future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the special court for sierra leone sentenced issa hassan sesay, the main leader of the revolutionary united front, to 52 years in prison, morris kallon, one of the leaders of the front, to 40 years in prison, and augustine gbao, the front's head of security, to 25 years in prison. they organized one of the most brutal rebel movements of modern times. the drastic mutilation of the civilian population, especially the amputation of limbs on a mass scale, sexual violence as a method of combat, the incorporation of children into the army are just some of the brutal actions of the revolutionary united front led by the underground. the harsh sentence in their case is a strong signal that should deter others from similar actions and a sign that the civilized democratic world will not remain silent and has a powerful tool to influence the perpetrators of such crimes. this powerful instrument is the court of justice, and it should be supported both financially and politically.
madam president! i would like to refer today to the great accusation which has been made in this house against members of parliament and to the defamation of the european parliament which mr martin has committed by saying that some members do not vote but send their representatives to vote who use their voting cards. this is unacceptable behaviour, as the european parliament's proceedings are broadcast live. the citizens of europe are sitting on the balconies of this parliament and they have heard an amazing thing today, in an election year. this is slander and i ask the bureau to force mr martin to make a proper apology to all members of this house at the next sitting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs rumiana jelevej on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. these cases are particularly close to me and i have witnessed them many times, including during the so-called rehabilitation seismics of the podkarpackie voivodeship - there were 18. i always say that a disabled person must be treated like a full citizen. this is not just a matter of lofty declarations and laws but, above all, of the practice of daily life. the objectives of the convention are: respect for the inherent dignity, autonomy, including the freedom to make one's own choices, as well as respect for the independence of the person, non-discrimination, full and effective participation in society and social integration, respect for the differences and acceptance of persons with disabilities as contributors to the diversity of the human family and as part of humanity, equality of opportunity, accessibility, equality between men and women, respect for the developing potential of children with disabilities and respect for the right of children with disabilities to preserve their identity. in this context, i also regard the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as very positive. in the eu, this will affect some 50 million people, and worldwide, an estimated 650 million.
in writing. - materials with particle sizes below 10-9 meters are nanomaterials. they may occur as loose or nanoparticle secretions in the casing of other materials, e.g. composites. these are nanomaterials obtained by a 'top-down' technology, i.e. by high-energy milling. due to their large surface area and high surface energy, nanoparticles are characterised by:- the ability to catalyze chemical reactions;- considerable reactivity (potential);- ease of penetration into living cells. loose nanoparticles released uncontrolled into the environment may pose a health hazard. it is not known whether loose nanoparticles of various materials can enter living cells and cause cancer-causing chemical reactions. the source of nanoparticles released into the environment are:- products intentionally produced by the 'top-down' method, e.g. zinc oxide molecules in uv filter creams, or bactericidal additives, e.g. nanosilver;- unintended by-products in the form of nanoparticles, e.g. as a result of combustion, tyre friction and other processes that uncontrollably rise through brownian motion to form nanoaerosols. so, if you deliberately add nanoparticles to, say, filter creams that are designed to block ultraviolet rays, are they not going to cause health side effects? it can and should be investigated. do the nanoaerosols around us not cause health hazards by their catalytic action? this also requires urgent scientific research, which is difficult to carry out for physicochemical reasons.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to refer to the way the european parliament works. i do not think it is a sensible move to vote on important documents within a dozen minutes of the end of the debate. not all arguments come before faction meetings. with a large group of amendments, it is worth considering postponing the vote to the next day. it's a matter for consideration for the next term. in the meantime, unfortunately, two things happened that are very important to me, and i would like to share them with you. first, russia signed an agreement with abkhazia and ossetia to ensure the presence of its troops in these georgian provinces. so what right does he have to claim that the situation in chechnya is his internal affair? i hope that parliament will also take up this matter in the next term. in poland, another 114,000 men lost their jobs last year. this is the effect of the crisis, but not exclusively. a wave of reports of planned mass layoffs is reaching employment offices, including over 80 thousand polish shipbuilders who lost their jobs because of the european union's decision to allow public funding to support other jobs in other countries. it's discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! in the interests of europe's future, i would like to recall today, at the last session of this term in strasbourg, the words of our great compatriot, the holy father john paul ii, who said: 'there will be no unity in europe unless it is a community of spirit.' this deepest foundation of unity was given to europe and has been reinforced for centuries by christianity with its gospel, its understanding of man and its contribution to the development of history, peoples and nations. it is not a question of appropriating history, because the history of europe is like a great river, influenced by its many tributaries and streams, and the diversity of its traditions and cultures is its great wealth. the european identity is built on christendom, and the present lack of spiritual unity is largely due to the crisis of this very christian identity.
mr. chairman, please! only 13% of poles will go to the european elections. the fate of the majority will be decided by the minority. what a pity! the eu is indispensable in the face of global challenges, and people are recognising the value of solidarity between countries. but there's been no recent effort to increase social engagement. in poland, the debates are dominated by the two parties' mouths. public money is being wasted on billboards with flat-faced people who can't go to meetings. prime minister tusk is as interested in a real debate on european affairs as kaczynski was. the last time i was here, i asked whether the european parliament was planning any spectacular last minute initiatives to get people to vote. unfortunately, the discussions were led by marek siwiec, who still can't seem to get used to the idea that democracy without civic engagement is nothing. so i ask again: is there anything more that the european parliament can do to meet the expectations of the elections as an institution? 13% is not just unlucky, it's embarrassing.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the debate about the threat of the flu virus, i would like to quote some of the comments that have been coming out of the internet in response to the media panic, which has been further fueled by comments from the world health organization, which suggest that the reason for the media hysteria is the desire to get rid of stockpiled vaccines or ineffective tamiflu that is sitting in pharmaceutical warehouses and an attempt to distract from the global crisis. these reactions by the public not only demonstrate a lack of trust in so-called authorities, but may also be a reason to underestimate the real threat of a pandemic in the future. i think it would be more sensible to report the threat of a possible pandemic of influenza or other disease after a little more observation of the illnesses and a thorough examination of the viruses and their virulence, which would prevent the reporting of incomplete information, panic and, for example, the killing of pigs that is taking place.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - mr president! - what are you doing? the aim of the 1986 council directive in question was to apply the principle of equal treatment between women and men working in an independent capacity and to give co-working spouses a clearly defined occupational status and to lay down their rights and minimum guarantees. the commission's current proposal is still too low-ambition, with only limited binding solutions. proposals to ensure that women in self-employment can take up to 14 weeks of maternity leave, including two weeks of compulsory leave, or social protection for co-working spouses on the same terms as self-employed workers are welcome. on the other hand, the proposed exemption from the obligation to be a member of a social security scheme for selfemployed persons, and in particular for co-working spouses, is worrying. this solution will not contribute to equal treatment between women and men and it is therefore appropriate that the correct application of the directive is monitored by the authority competent for matters covered by the equality directives. finally, i would like to congratulate both authors on a very well-written document.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposal to extend the minimum length of maternity leave and to include other regulations to facilitate reconciliation of family and professional life is a proposal in the right direction. we support this proposal, even though we don't think it's enough. in the face of europe's demographic decline, any form of family support is valuable. at the same time, the mother's contact with her young child, especially the infant, is conducive to the child's proper emotional development. breastfeeding is very important for your baby's immunity and biological health. however, the proposed amendment is still not sufficient. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states must seek to improve their own situation. i would also like to draw attention to two problems. women's pension entitlements usually do not cover any or insufficient parental leave. women mothers in large families are discriminated against both by the labour market and by the pension system. the introduction of the childcare allowance should be completed.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is a fact that after five years of intensive efforts to amend the working time directive, we are concluding today that our efforts have failed. parliament failed to reach agreement with the council to pass new, better legislation that would improve the situation of workers, including by reducing the maximum working week from 78 hours to 65 hours, subject to the worker's consent. but i regret to say that unlike my predecessors, especially on the left, a significant part of the responsibility for this outcome falls on this house, which has adopted an unrealistic negotiating strategy. in many european countries, there is a saying: 'the best is often the enemy of the good'. this popular wisdom, as i have unfortunately found, was forgotten by most of my colleagues in the negotiating team, especially on the left side of the room, during the negotiation period. i want to say one thing, but without satisfaction. i would remind you that during the first conciliation meeting i called for a more compromise approach and for recognition that, since flexible working time arrangements have been applied for years in most eu countries with the agreement of workers, expecting radical changes is unjustified and could lead to a blockage of negotiations. that's what happened. i'm afraid it's for the sake of the campaign, not the interests of the european workers.
the council was keen to maintain opt-out procedures on a permanent basis and to increase the permissible weekly working time in practice. she showed no flexibility. the problem of the duty-time is a problem for those working in the public service, but especially in the health service, where extended working hours are not only a deterioration of the working conditions of doctors and nurses, but also a threat to the safety and health of patients and, subsequently, the civil liability of doctors for professional errors. the voluntary nature of the procedure was such that one of the hospitals in radom, poland, would not accept anyone who did not agree to the procedure. it means that voluntary action is virtually non-existent. the division of the shift into active and inactive parts is an attempt to treat as leisure time the time actually available to the employer, spent at the workplace, time which cannot be organised independently. so it's practically stealing an employee's time. there is no reason for us to adopt a solution that we consider harmful.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to draw attention to three points in speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the european parliament for 2010. firstly, the rapporteur's proposal to adopt the draft estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2010 as adopted by the bureau in april of this year should be supported. the final budget decisions are left to the next parliament, which is obliged to re-examine the budgetary lines in september 2009. secondly, it is also positive that the preliminary draft budget currently adopted provides for an increase in expenditure of only 2.72%, which means that the 4% increase in expenditure previously proposed is not being used at this stage and thus gives the new parliament a large margin of manoeuvre in this area in the autumn of this year. finally, thirdly, i would also like to give my strong support to the rapporteur's proposal on multilingualism, in particular the provision of equal access to translation services for all members. the it and communication technology for parliament items, in particular those aiming at the best possible use of resources in this area, also deserve support.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the brutal killing of seals is part of the poaching phenomenon that we unfortunately encounter quite often. the poachers kill marine animals, forest animals, many species of fish, without following any rules, destroying their populations and causing them suffering. in the european union, in canada, we have the relevant laws and the appropriate services to oversee them. a social movement to help expose and catch poachers can be a great help to these services. the role of the state should be to safeguard animal welfare, balance in their environment and to ensure that illegally obtained skins, meat of wild animals, including seals, do not reach the market, and the practice is severely punished. the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council is a document reconciling the interests of all parties in the trade in seal skins.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers in tonight’s discussion for their contributions. i am very pleased that it is possible tonight to reach a first-reading agreement on this highly sensitive file. since the european parliament raised this issue about two years ago, the commission has conducted extensive preparatory work in order to get a full picture of the situation and share it with the general public. our obligation to take full account of the concerns expressed by european union citizens, as well as the need to harmonise the internal market, were key issues which needed to be addressed by this legislation. when the regulation enters into force, citizens can be reassured that seal products derived from commercial hunting activities will no longer be found on the european union market. the inuit exemption will ensure that the interests of inuit and other indigenous communities traditionally engaged in the hunting of seals will not be adversely affected. regarding the issue that mrs doyle referred to, this will be dealt with in the implementing measures. in conclusion, i believe that, by adopting this regulation, we will contribute to raising awareness and to upholding high standards of animal welfare in the european union. i would, therefore, like to stress again the importance of reaching first-reading agreement on an issue which is so important to european union citizens. i therefore urge you to support the compromise package in full, without amendments, to ensure a first-reading agreement. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms wallis, and ms brepoels and all those who worked towards reaching the compromise agreement.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by ms diana wallis. i support the draft regulation, agreed with the member states, which will ban trade in seal products. i believe that exceptions should only be possible if the requirements concerning the manner and methods of killing seals are met. we shouldn't ban traditional eskimo hunting. the regulation will ensure that the products concerned are traded on a uniform basis throughout the eu. the project was supported by many eu citizens who are sensitive to animal welfare. we all know that seals are often killed in conditions where these animals, as sentient mammals, experience terrible pain and suffering. now we have a chance to end this suffering. let's do this the ban will mean that goods made from seal meat, fat and skin, such as bags, shoes, headgear and gloves, will disappear from the common market. certain pharmaceutical products produced from seals, such as dietary supplements, will not be allowed to be placed on the market. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! people are concerned that actions like the telecoms package are a restriction on their freedom. i've received hundreds of letters on this matter, not just from poland. i quote one of them: 'the european parliament is proposing changes to the law that will affect my access to the internet and that may restrict or make conditional my ability to use websites and services. the changes to the law proposed by the european parliament will allow my internet provider to offer me limited and conditional services. i am afraid that such changes will kill the life of the internet and may have negative consequences for the eu economy. these are the voices of europe, the voters. i support them. and i advise voters to be careful in their voting, especially when it comes to polish candidates. where the citizens' platform and law and justice don't know what's going on. and to mr. harbour, it seems that some clowns from civic platform and law and justice circles care more for seals and monkeys than for people.
in writing. the eu telecoms regulatory framework was established in the 1990s to liberalise national markets dominated by state monopolies. meanwhile, we have witnessed a revolutionary technological change in the development of mobile telephony and the internet. the draft reform of the eu telecoms rules, which parliament is due to vote on tomorrow, is intended to bring eu law into line with these changes, with a view to improving the position of users on the electronic services market. i personally believe that internet access is an important factor in supporting the educational process and in the exercise of freedom of expression, access to information and the labour market. internet users shall not be deprived of or restricted from accessing the network without prior authorisation from the competent judicial authorities. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. they would restore the guarantees of user rights in the package by imposing monitoring obligations on national regulators and by making it illegal to arbitrarily block and restrict citizens' access to applications, services and content published on the internet. the amended but substantially altered wording of both amendments, submitted for second reading on 6 may, is a serious threat to freedom of speech, free access to the internet and the right to information pillars of modern, democratic civil societies.
mr. chairman, please! pathological employer behaviour pushes employees to self-employment, including drivers providing transport services. employers here want to save on social security and gain more flexibility, but it puts us in a situation where we have to vote under the pressure of pathology. that's why we had to reject the report, because the scale of this pathology is excessive. its existence threatens not only the health of workers but, above all, the safety of road traffic and can affect practically everyone, the situation of everyone who is on the road, whether in a car or as a pedestrian crossing the road. this is a clear reason to take this problem very seriously and to go back to it, because the solution proposed did not offer a way out of this situation.
in writing. - the case seems clear. this is the second application to place poultrymeat intended for human consumption on the market after antibacterial treatment. this time the proposal was made in response to a proposal from the us, which fears a ban on the import of its meat into europe. in a situation where the use of antibacterial substances, according to the studies, does not contribute to reducing the number of bacterial infections, and europe is fighting for healthy food, we must speak with one voice. and the same goes for gmos. it is a pity that here, in the case of genetically modified organisms, the matter is not so clear to everyone.
in writing. − the european parliament's decision to ban the trade in seal products within the european community is a step towards ending the brutal killing of these animals by some countries. the project addresses public concerns about animal welfare rules when killing and skinning seals. the adopted regulation also introduces a number of exceptions for those who need to do so. in particular, the exclusion of seal products obtained by traditional hunts conducted by eskimo communities and contributing to their subsistence. i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of this regulation by such a clear majority. this is a very clear signal from the european institutions that european citizens do not condone the brutal treatment and killing of animals.
in writing. - the european parliament has paid relatively much attention to animal protection in its current term of office. the introduction of a ban on trade in certain seal products in the european union undoubtedly strengthens this protection. it also welcomes the 425 members who made a written statement to the european parliament. it should also be noted that parliament in its resolution expressed its desire to respect the culture and traditions of indigenous peoples. the future development of seal conservation will depend on a number of factors in the international and wto context. nevertheless, the initiative of the members is worthy of recognition and support.
madam president! the czech presidency is not an easy one, mainly because of the internal troubles and the global economic crisis. however, i believe that it will be a complete success if it can bring the process of ratification of the treaty of lisbon to a successful conclusion. i would therefore like to ask whether the presidency intends to address those countries whose parliamentary procedures have already been completed and whose heads of state are only delaying in signing this document. it's also about my country, poland. the second thing i want to talk about is the issue of civic dialogue. i was the rapporteur for this report and i know that europeans expect the european union to take up important issues and to prepare appropriate solutions. they believe that europe will do better than their member states. i would ask that you consider that as well. and lastly, madam president, do not forget solidarity, do not let the european union become a nationalism. we don't want to go back to nationalism. i appeal for that solidarity very, very strongly.
madam president! sixteen percent of europeans are at risk of poverty. the crisis is resulting in a wave of mass layoffs. unemployment is the main cause of extreme poverty. poverty promotes social exclusion and limits access to education and health care. despite the economic crisis, we want to preserve european social models that promote social cohesion and solidarity, including in the fight against poverty. economic independence is a guarantee of a decent life. this is why it is so important to protect jobs and earnings from work, and to improve vocational skills to increase labour market mobility. what makes us feel like we have real power in our lives is participation in decision-making. it is therefore necessary to respect the opinion of the social partners, social dialogue, collective agreements and social agreements. we must work together to ensure that people can earn an income that allows them to participate in society, by supporting families, especially those with many children, and by preventing discrimination in the labour market, especially for people with disabilities. the fact that the european globalisation adjustment fund was used only three percent during the crisis is an indictment of politicians. i congratulate the rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? our civilization is a civilization of animal exploitation. for meat, for skins, for various economic needs, we kill billions of animals. we also kill them occasionally for non-economic reasons, for sport, like hunting, for entertainment, like in the corridor. for me, killing animals is not a sport or a pastime or a culture, but let's leave it at that, because the subject of our discussion is killing animals for economic purposes. protection of animals during slaughter. is that possible? can you protect an animal you want to kill? yes, you can, by sparing him unnecessary suffering. by protecting animals from inhuman treatment, we also protect our own humanity. the proposed regulation advances the standards of animal protection at the time of slaughter, introduces higher, better technical standards and promotes better control of their implementation. it introduces greater personal responsibility for the proper treatment of animals, and it introduces the need to appoint a special official responsible for the protection of animals in slaughterhouses. the new regulation replacing the old 1993 directive is a clear step forward in the implementation of the animal welfare idea, and that is why i, as rapporteur, support this regulation. several issues have been controversial. the issue of ritual slaughter comes to the fore. the principle is to kill the animals after stunning and rendering them unconscious, but for religious reasons an exception is allowed killing without stunning if religious reasons require it. and as you know, we're talking about people in islam and judaism who kill animals without being stunned. the amendments to the committee on agriculture aimed at a total ban on ritual slaughter in the european union have been dropped. the members agreed that such a ban would be unenforceable. the commission also rejected the proposal that each member state should have the right to prohibit ritual slaughter by its own legislation. that's the issue in the 28th amendment. i would point out that voting for this amendment means that member states will not be able to prohibit ritual slaughter on their territory. voting against this amendment would mean returning to the european commission's position that ritual slaughter should be banned in national law. the question of the establishment of national reference centres, which should be established at national level, is controversial. the agriculture committee rejected that idea in amendment 64. i personally believe that such reference centres should be set up and that they could also perform control functions in relation to the treatment of animals at the time of slaughter. i would like to draw attention to the suggestions made by the committee on agriculture in my report. first, that the efforts to introduce higher standards of animal slaughter receive financial support from the european union. the high ideals of animal welfare cannot be achieved without financial investment, without creating material incentives to introduce higher standards. and the second thing. the report proposes that the increased standards apply not only to producers in the european union but also to importers of meat products into europe. we want to make sure that animal products are only placed on the eu market from animals that have been slaughtered in the manner required by eu law. ladies and gentlemen! the latest session of the european parliament is largely devoted to animal protection. today we have passed a ban on the import of products from cruelly killed seals, we have passed higher standards for the protection of experimental animals, and now we are debating higher standards for the protection of animals during slaughter. i am glad that parliament is doing so much for the protection of animals, and i am glad that i can be a part of it. the spirit of st francis of assisi is present in this house and may it be present in the next term.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr janusz wojciechowski on the council regulation on the protection of animals at the time of slaughter raises a very important issue of animal welfare. and indirectly, it also raises the question of how far modern man can break with cruelty and create a new world of values, where there is sensitivity to pain, suffering, fear and anxiety about the loss of life, not only for humans but also for animals. sadly, despite advances in civilization and technology, billions of animals and birds are still killed each year, often cruelly and even indiscriminately. so the question arises, why is it that intelligent, educated people often behave like primitive people, doomed to struggle for existence, toward animals? what should we do to change that? the report provides a good deal of answers to these questions, but it still fails to address many of the fundamental problems, such as legislation, ritual slaughter and raising public awareness. these problems must therefore be solved by the council, the commission and the new parliament. i hope that further work on improving animal welfare will be accompanied by the awareness that an animal as a living being, capable of feeling pain and suffering, is not a thing and that humans owe it respect, protection and care.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate on the wojciechowski report reflects the concerns of parliament, the commission and indeed of the public over the welfare of animals at the time of slaughter. the commission proposal introduces important innovations which i hope you can support. today, eu legislation requires that operators from third countries exporting to the eu apply equivalent standards. in addition, meat import certificates must confirm that eu standards have been respected in the exporting establishments. therefore, as regards the commission proposal, we are of the opinion that the principle of equivalence should continue to apply. i have listened carefully to all your comments, and i think this input is very useful in our efforts to arrive at a truly effective production of animal welfare. with the adoption of this report, we are sending the right signals to the public that we are addressing their concerns while, at the same time, we are setting modern standards for global welfare practices at the time of slaughter of animals. i thank parliament and its rapporteur for their support. finally, as this is my last address to this house, i would like to say how much i have enjoyed working with all of you, and let me wish all of you success in your future endeavours and every happiness.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you down. i too share this wish and i am glad that this last speech by the commissioner before parliament is about the presentation of a really good draft, a good regulation, with which the majority of those who spoke in the debate fully agree. i would very much like the final result of the work, the joint work of parliament, the commission and the council, not to deteriorate in any significant way what the commission has proposed, because the commission has indeed proposed very good proposals. but in the approach to animal welfare, in the approach to animal welfare, in the approach to animal welfare, two things are important. the first is money. unfortunately, we're not going to get the social acceptance for raising those standards unless we make sure that they're properly funded. here too community measures are necessary to achieve the objectives pursued. you can't put these higher standards in place without money, putting everything at the expense of the entities that are supposed to put those standards in place. and the second issue is precisely this equivalence, that these higher standards do not weaken the competitiveness of producers in the european union. i think we're on the right track to do that. i'm glad that there's an acceptance for those demands in this room. thank you again, commissioner. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken in this debate and i am pleased that the idea of raising animal welfare standards is widely accepted in this house.
mr president, mr corbett's excellent report does, however, unfortunately contain a serious flaw. our aim is to provide high quality parliamentary services. we must therefore avoid mistakes and know how to improve the texts. only amendment no 8 on article 45 will enable us, with the support of 75 members, which will not be easy to obtain, to table amendments in plenary. the rapporteur and the committee on constitutional affairs have decided to reject this procedure, fearing that they will be overwhelmed with amendments. the innovations we proposed on behalf of the alde and green groups were to give this right to two or three political groups. we have fictitious coordinators and rapporteurs who are competent and follow the legislative work. to reject this innovation presented by the afco is to deny the power to improve a text in the context of a normal procedure, which is a serious mistake.
madam president! support for rural areas in all forms is a very important action. this is especially true when the support is provided by the mass introduction of new technologies into the countryside. but i have my doubts about priorities. what is more important for rural development today - broadband internet or continuing to develop and modernise communication infrastructure and to create more jobs in rural areas, especially in times of crisis? it is clear to me that the money for broadband and climate change in rural areas will go to the companies and businesses that do the work, not to the farmers or the rural people. or should these funds be used to compensate for the disparities in the payments to medium-sized farms, especially in the new member states? the european union is now giving farmers broadband for huge sums of money instead of meeting a more important need, which is to raise farms, not farming concerns, to a higher level.
in writing. the regulation establishes a programme to help the eu economy in times of crisis. the granting of aid for energy projects is expected to lead to economic recovery, increased security of energy supply and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. the amount available is eur 3,5 billion. will this program help to combat the crisis? i doubt that. that money won't create many jobs right away. each of these projects requires time to prepare. these projects will therefore be a delayed boost to the economy. they vary in weight. the most important are those concerning interconnection of energy networks. they will strengthen the cohesion of the union. however, these projects do not include, in my view, energy interconnections between poland and germany. the eligibility criteria for ccs are too high and it is assumed that ccs is already developed at this scale. it's not like that. he is considering the commission's failure to spend community money, which i believe is due to a lack of discernment and a doctrinaire approach. after all, the money wasted on ccs plants would have been better spent on the crisis if it had been used to carry out massive renovations and thermal upgrades of buildings or to build hundreds of biogas plants. nature would benefit from that.
in writing. in the debate on the report on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in the context of the multiannual financial framework (2007-2013), i would like to draw attention to three points: 1.the allocation of eur 5 billion in 2009 and 2010 to finance energy projects and a compensated rural information network should be supported, with eur 3.5 billion for energy networks and eur 1.5 billion for rural information networks. 2.despite this support, i would like to express my concern that the source of these additional funds is chapter 2, i.e. the funds for the common agricultural policy, where the annual ceilings foreseen in the financial perspective for 2007-2013 will be reduced by eur 3.5 billion in 2009 and eur 2.5 billion in 2010. this is particularly worrying when the food security of the european union is at stake. 3.it is to be regretted that such fundamental changes to the financial perspective for 2007-13 are being made two months before the end of the current term of office, in a hurry, without the possibility of a substantive debate on the subject.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. part of the european economic recovery package, also known as the 5 billion package, is related to the development of the eu's rural areas. we will allocate over €1 billion in additional funds to improve rural internet access and to address the new challenges identified in the cap review. it is a pity that they have been reduced a little, but now the most important thing is to complete the whole legislative process as soon as possible. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire and maintenance of computers and peripheral equipment, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the provision of telecommunications services, including the purchase, hire and repair of telecommunications equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the provision of telecommunications services. the internet is not only a window on the world, a tool for exchanging ideas, for acquiring knowledge, but also a means of handling many administrative matters. by adopting this package, the eu will send a positive signal to our rural society. agriculture plays an important role in rural areas, but there are also various types of small enterprises, i.e. shops, workshops, warehouses. i believe that the development of the internet will contribute to the development of education and small business, including tourism services in these areas. it can also help to generate additional income, especially for small family farms.
rapporteur. − madam president, i have two or three short technical, but important, points. firstly, we have a block of amendments proposed by the agriculture committee, among others amendment 64. this amendment should be voted separately. it focuses on the issue of creating the national reference centre, which is a very important part of the whole regulation. the agriculture committee has proposed to remove the obligation to create the reference centre at a national level. my opinion, as the rapporteur, is that this is against the general logic of the whole regulation. i suggest voting on amendment 64 separately. secondly, please note amendment 28, which focuses on the controversial and emotional question of ritual slaughter. voting in favour of this amendment will eliminate the possibility of a total ban on ritual slaughter at national level. voting against amendment 28 will preserve the possibility of this ban. the third point concerns amendment 85. the commission has proposed to reduce the time of transport of animals from farms and waiting in slaughterhouses to 24 hours. voting in favour of amendment 85 will eliminate this reduction of transport time. voting against amendment 85 will support the commission proposal to reduce the transport time.
in writing. − the european agricultural fund for rural development is an opportunity for regions that have been historically lagging behind. the fund is also an opportunity to redress the imbalance between the old and new member states of the european union. in managing the fund, we must remember that the cap is full of injustice and inequality. the differentiation of subsidies and thus of farmers' incomes leads to the maintenance of disparities and even to their widening. these disparities affect not only the economic sphere of rural residents, but also the entire infrastructure, including access to the internet. so we have to remember that, for example, german farmers have subsidies that are twice as high as polish farmers and almost three times as high as romanian farmers. we must also remember that the regions most in need of assistance are in romania, bulgaria and the eastern wall of poland.
in writing. − the amendments proposed by the rapporteur make the rules on the register of european parliament documents more flexible and simplify the rules of procedure. some of them also aim to adapt the content of the rules of procedure to the new rules and to the current practice. one of the most important changes is the introduction of the right for the president of parliament to ask national parliaments (of countries that have signed the treaty of accession of a country to the european union) to appoint observers from among its own members - in the number of future seats in the european parliament allocated to that country. observers may attend parliament's meetings pending the entry into force of the accession treaty and have the right to vote in committees and political groups. they shall not be entitled to vote or stand as candidates in elections for seats in parliament. the next amendment to the rules of procedure regulates the procedure for joint committee meetings and joint votes. the rapporteurs concerned shall draw up a single draft report, which shall be examined and voted on by the committees concerned at joint meetings chaired jointly by the chairpersons of the committees concerned. from the point of view of the running of parliament's sittings, changes are important in the allocation of speaking time and the way in which lists of speakers are drawn up, as well as in the way in which the final vote on a legislative act is conducted. voting by name increases the responsibility of members towards their citizens.
in writing. − the selfemployed currently represent only 16% of the active population. only one third of the 32.5 million selfemployed are women. the proposal to remove obstacles to women's access to self-employment, including through the introduction of specific measures or benefits to facilitate the entry of the under-represented sex into self-employment, should be supported. directive 86/613/eec has only slightly improved the situation of the cooperating spouses of self-employed persons with regard to the recognition of their work and the appropriate social protection. the new directive should in particular provide for the compulsory registration of co-working spouses so that they are no longer invisible workers and for the obligation for member states to adopt measures enabling co-working spouses to take out insurance covering in particular healthcare and pension benefits. although the member states are far from unanimous at the moment on the need to improve the legal framework in this area, i hope that a reasonable consensus will be quickly reached to enable this directive to be adopted at first reading, before the european parliament elections in june 2009. let's support the equality initiatives! by putting people first, we can build a more just society.
in writing. - we are facing an unprecedented crisis. it is not just financial but also economic and social, and it has affected not just a few member states but the whole european union and the world. the leaders of the european socialist party groups adopted a joint declaration calling on the states to 'develop an ambitious, progressive plan to safeguard employment and combat mass unemployment'. the only way to have a real impact on the economy is to provide a budgetary stimulus that remains appropriate to the problem and is coordinated across europe. safe jobs and tackling unemployment while promoting sustainable development are our priorities, underpinning all our proposals and initiatives. if we do not make new efforts to combat the crisis in europe, unemployment will rise to 25 million by the beginning of 2010 and the state of public finances will deteriorate significantly. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established in 2006 and will run until 2013. it is designed to support workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation. the fund has a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million and will be used to support active labour market measures such as job search assistance in the form of both further training and mobility support. i support the idea of reducing the number of redundancies (to 500) to the minimum, after which the fund can be used.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the report by mr janusz wojciechowski on the protection of animals during slaughter. many people wonder how animals can be protected during the slaughter. it sounds paradoxical, but it's possible. anyone who has experienced or observed the killing of animals knows how painful the death of an animal can be. the introduction of new legislation in this area will reduce unnecessary suffering of animals. that's why it's worth introducing.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. once again, we are dealing with a human rights report that is written under the dictates of ideology. the ideology of the left today is a total blindness to religious freedom in the world. christians are persecuted in china, india, iran, vietnam, russia, and more recently in pakistan. despite the clear provisions of article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights and article 9 of the european convention, religious freedom is not of interest to the left today. leftist ideology instead focuses morbidly on the principle of non-discrimination against sexual minorities, which is not as strongly entrenched in international law. the real curiosity is alde's proposal to attack the holy father benedict xvi for his statements in africa. i think the liberals have forgotten the principle of separation of church and state that they used to be so eager to see. it turns out that the liberal postulate today is to subordinate religious institutions to the state and public authority. it is a demand against freedom of religion and freedom of expression, and therefore the adoption of this provision means that we will vote against this report.
madam president, i understand the reasons for amendment no 2, tabled by my colleagues in the alde group, concerning the fight against aids, and - i stress this - i generally agree with them. i am, however, opposed to this amendment. the catholic church is separate from the state and has the right to fight aids in its own way, even if we feel that it could be done better. the point is that it is neither fair nor reasonable to attack the pope so fiercely, precisely before the european elections. this could further divide our societies and lead many people to question the meaning of their participation. it would be a grave mistake for parliament to condemn the spiritual leader of millions and millions of believers.
mr. chairman, please! the charter of fundamental rights of the union, the european convention for the protection of human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights contain comprehensive information on the right to asylum. it is a fundamental right in the face of persecution in one's country of origin because of one's race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular political group, and that is something we see quite commonly in the world today. the granting of that right should be linked to the guarantee to the asylum seeker of the right to full development of life. and that has to be the bottom line. to achieve this, asylum seekers should be granted access to the labour market, as this is the best way to ensure self-sufficiency for the asylum seeker. it also prevents social isolation and helps to better understand the culture of the host country. asylum seekers should be guaranteed the widest possible procedural safeguards and therefore the right to high-quality legal assistance to help them understand their rights.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to begin by expressing my warm thanks to mr gérard deprez, rapporteur for the libe committee, to all the shadow rapporteurs, to the representatives of the czech presidency and to the european commission for their successful cooperation. despite the rather distant negotiating positions at the beginning, we have managed to reach a compromise which i hope will allow us to reach an agreement with the council at the first reading. the draft regulation establishes a mechanism under which member states will be able to renegotiate, negotiate and conclude bilateral agreements with third countries on judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters. a similar mechanism is provided for in respect of bilateral agreements on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions in matrimonial matters, on parental responsibility and on maintenance obligations. this is a response to the practical problem raised by opinion 1/03 of the court of justice on the new lugano convention, according to which, in so far as the communities have exercised their powers under article 61 (c) of the treaty to adopt legal measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters, they also exercise their competence to conclude external agreements. the proposed instrument lays down the detailed procedure. for this reason, the legal framework of the proposed mechanism must be strictly limited in terms of subject matter and time. the first condition is that the project is limited to bilateral agreements on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the second condition is implemented by the so-called 'sunset clause', according to which an agreement concluded under this procedure automatically ceases to be valid when the community concludes an agreement with the third country concerned. i certainly see the need to include in the legal framework the question of the exercise of external powers in the area of the law applicable to contractual and non-contractual obligations, as well as in matrimonial matters. however, it seems appropriate to clarify that the proposed mechanism will be applicable not only to sectoral agreements defined by the limited scope of this project, but also to other agreements such as bilateral agreements and regional agreements between a limited number of member states and neighbouring third countries. of course, only in very limited cases, on specific issues, to solve local problems. i was sceptical about the need to set the 'sunset clause' at 31 december 2014 if the draft regulation requires the european commission to report on the application of the regulations by 1 january 2014. moreover, the process of negotiating agreements with third countries is often complex and very time-consuming, leaving member states little time to use this new procedure. therefore, the compromise proposal to end the regulation on 31 december 2019 allows for a fuller and more effective use of this procedure by member states. despite the european commission's differing view, i believe that the commission should take account of the regulations in its report on their application in the context of other legislative instruments such as brussels i. the proposed mechanism, which includes two-stage control by the commission, will undoubtedly serve to ensure the coherence of the acquis. however, i have tried to make the proposed procedure as flexible as possible, to reduce the time needed for the commission to react and to reduce the bureaucratic burden. the democratic legitimacy and role of the european parliament are beyond doubt, and that is why i insist that the european parliament, together with the member states, should be able to receive information at every stage, from the intention of a member state to enter into negotiations with a third country to the conclusion of an agreement. i would like to stress that the procedure for concluding bilateral agreements with third countries gives us a unique opportunity to demonstrate that the european union is able to solve the problems of its citizens in their interests, which is particularly important in the context of the economic crisis and the growing euroscepticism in many member states. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that despite some differences in the strict legal approach, we must be pragmatic, and of course respect the community's legal acquis.
mr. chairman, please! in the area of civil justice, in addition to the acquis communautaire, there are numerous bilateral agreements which member states have concluded with third countries. in accordance with article 307 of the treaty, member states are required to eliminate any possible incompatibilities with the acquis which may exist in such agreements. in its opinion of february 2006, the court of justice upheld the finding that the community had been granted exclusive competence to conclude international agreements with third countries in the fields of jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the question therefore arises whether all existing or proposed bilateral agreements with these countries should be replaced by community agreements to a certain extent. or, rather, in the absence of a community interest, leave the power to conclude them to the member states? however, this derogating procedure must be subject to very specific conditions relating to the scope and duration of the mechanism. it is therefore important that the commission establishes a strategy and sets priorities for the development of the community's external relations policy in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i will be brief because i can only express my satisfaction at the way in which parliament has helped to illuminate the area of law, justice, security and freedom which we want to build in the union. i salute all that has been said, especially on the principle of mutual gratitude, which itself refers to mutual trust between rulers. it is true, as has been very well said, that there are margins of convergence of judicial systems which, in particular, should be formalized at the level of minimum procedures in the case of criminal trials. i really believe that all this is preparing us for a good programme for stockholm, and i thank parliament for that. i would like to confirm that bilateral agreements can indeed be found in an institutional framework, but that the competence of the community, of the commission, must in fact prevail, as an exclusive competence. that's all i can say. i don't want to prolong the debate. there's still a lot to be said. i would like to thank parliament in particular, and i must say - since i will not be speaking again - that my experience as a commissioner has been very enriching, since i really feel that a good alliance between the commission and the european parliament is often - i apologize to the presidency for stressing this, but it is true - of a nature to bring out the general european interest and to promote it. but of course i thank the presidency for its support. there must be synergy between the three institutions; but i thank the european parliament, which has just given us a very good report again this evening. thank you, mrs pagano.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, this debate has been extremely interesting, and it seems that we are very close to reaching a first-reading agreement on the proposal in the area of applicable law. may i say there is not just agreement, but a fair and well-balanced agreement. this is, i think, an excellent illustration of the good cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council. i am convinced that member states will make good use of the procedure established by both the future regulations, and it will allow them to provide an adequate legal framework for their relations with certain third countries with which they have specific ties. as i stressed earlier, the first-reading agreement on the proposal in the area of applicable law has an impact on the other proposal in the area of family law, given that the two texts are largely identical. through the first-reading agreement we have, therefore, also paved the way for an early adoption of the other proposal. this is indeed a desirable development. a great many member states have a huge interest in being able to conclude agreements with third countries on family law matters, such as custody of children, access rights and maintenance obligations due to, for instance, specific historical or social ties with those countries. finally, on behalf of the council, i would like to thank parliament for its inspiring recommendations on the development of eu criminal justice, which are the subject of the report by mrs maria grazia pagano. i would like to thank parliament for this fruitful debate and for the excellent outcome.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? from the beginning, we knew that we were treading on fragile ice. on the one hand, the uniqueness and the extraordinary weight of the legal instruments we have been working on; on the other, the awareness of the passage of time and the inevitable approach of the end of this european parliament's term of office; and, finally, the expectation on the part of the member states, but also of the citizens of the european union, that we will come to their aid, at least for a certain time, in solving matters that are so difficult and yet so important to them. it is only through the desire to achieve a good result, while at the same time, of course, fully respecting community law and developing an instrument that will fit into the existing legal system of the european union, through the desire for good cooperation, that we have been able to reach the stage at which we are concluding this debate today and the stage which will most likely lead us to success at the first reading. i would therefore like to thank mr deprez once again for his efforts to ensure that we do not cross certain insurmountable barriers. i would like to thank very warmly - on behalf of minister kohout - the czech presidency for their extremely dynamic work, and on behalf of commissioner barrot for the really excellent cooperation with the commission. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have been here today, who have contributed to the final success over the past period, and our colleagues, in particular the staff of the legal affairs committee, who have put a lot of heart and work into the final success.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that mr dehaene's report, which is very important and very valuable, should be supplemented with regard to the functioning, but above all the responsibilities, of the european council. this important body will be elevated to the status of an institution and, in the political field, it is a leading factor. therefore, it must be given special attention. its action will be subject to the jurisdiction of the european court of justice in the same way as the european central bank. i also propose, on behalf of my group, an amendment which reflects this increased responsibility. since its legislative functions are limited, this responsibility falls mainly under article 265 concerning the lack of action. i believe that in the absence of any specifics in the treaty, the european council's obligations will probably have to be specified by means of an interinstitutional agreement. the kaufmann report is therefore very important, because it is a real opening up to the citizens. the greatest weakness that can be demonstrated in the face of a challenge to the future of the union is the gap, the gap between the union and its citizens. it is distant and unknown to them, even though they feel they need it. this gap, in the opinion of my group, the alde group, can only be effectively filled by means of general and regular citizen consultations. we have not had time to finish our work, nor to conclude our debate on this subject. nevertheless, the 'citizens' initiative', as defined in the treaty, can be an important instrument for creating a european public space, which we so badly need, as mr lamassoure has already said. it will encourage public debates between citizens and the union, which will awaken the citizens' awareness that we need. but it is still a major challenge for the european institutions, particularly the commission, in terms of monitoring, which involves the credibility of this new instrument, for the member states, which must accept the new practice and make the infrastructures available, and, of course, for the citizens, who must seize this instrument that is being installed, for the sake of direct democracy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in poland, only 13% of voters are likely to go to the european elections. probably the least of any european union country. why would you do that? look at this room, there are no representatives of the two leading political parties in poland in such an important debate. that is the attitude of these parties towards the electorate and european affairs. a complete lack of commitment. the debate about europe, the serious debate, does not exist in poland. but how can it exist when, i stress again, there are no representatives of either the ruling party or the opposition party in this debate. one gets the impression that the leading part of the polish political class is not interested in european affairs. that is the impression of the electorate, that is the impression of many young people in poland with whom i have spoken and who are interested in, among other things, the lisbon treaty. there's no response from the political class.
i'm sorry about that! i have to protest! i'm a member of the law and justice party, the largest opposition party. the claim that there is no one from this party is not true.
mr. chairman, please! the telecommunications package was one of those regulations that spurred unprecedented citizen activism. internet users, both organized and individual, have been strongly defending their rights to access information and take action online without external restrictions. it's a luxury for a member of parliament to know what the voters want from him. they've given me the right weight to put on this vote. it is the hope of a civic europe, not just a bureaucratic one. thank you to everyone who emailed us about this. unfortunately, due to the controversy in the initial phase of the vote, i made two voting errors, which fortunately did not affect the final result.
mr. chairman, please! i support the draft report by mrs stauner, and i have expressed my support in the debate. i am in favour of facilitating the use of the globalisation adjustment fund. i am very concerned that only 3% of this fund has been used so far. i was going to vote for the report, please note that. fortunately, the mistake didn't change the outcome of the final vote. i am also pleased that we have also accepted the reports by mr silva pened and mrs lambert.
mr. chairman, please! ritual objects of animals, generating their unprecedented suffering, are contrary to our civilization. i don't believe any religion that has a good purpose can demand that from its followers. it's more like the ways of savage, primitive tribes. we shouldn't have to put up with this. if you're going to argue religious tolerance, there are religions in the world that have ritualistically murdered people in their name. are we going to do this, too? is this our community of values? the rejection of amendment no 28 would at least allow such practices to be maintained or prohibited in individual member states. its adoption reveals the true bloodthirsty face of this parliament. i voted for the report as a whole because other regulations improve the situation of slaughter animals.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the objective of the media 2007 programme was to preserve european identity, diversity and cultural heritage, to improve the circulation of european audiovisual works and to increase the competitiveness of the european audiovisual sector. the media mundus programme goes further and focuses on the mutual benefits of promoting and opening audiovisual markets, both in the european union and in third countries. that's a good idea, of course. but this is a different kind of subject. it is about europe's cultural influence in the world - and that influence seems to be diminishing, which is very worrying to me. i also notice that the old continent does not participate in the intercultural dialogue in the world on an equal footing. the christian traditions that shaped it are now widely questioned, and europe seems to have no other concept of its own identity. no wonder he's losing. the small share of audiovisual works in global trade is a telling example. it is regrettable that as europe's economic importance diminishes, so will its role. but there's no need to tear the robe. initiatives like this one are a small but necessary step. we also have five more years of the european parliament ahead of us and hope that the members of the next term will make europe's voice heard more. last sitting, last speech i would like to thank all the members for their cooperation, especially those from the committee on culture and education, with whom i have had daily contact. i congratulate mrs hieronymi on her report and thank you all.
mr. chairman, please! films from third countries are quite often distributed in poland. they are rarely of a high standard, whereas our european films have a much harder time reaching third country markets, a much harder time reaching audiences. but it's also very important to promote the spread of our culture. it is necessary to promote european films in other countries. it is necessary to ensure that these films are better positioned on third country markets, but the strengthening of cinema will also ensure a higher level of cinematic art. that's going to be a significant value, too. i think that the synergy effect achieved through cooperation with third countries, through mobility, is important. strengthening the protection of intellectual property is an important issue that this programme addresses, including in supporting the implementation of the unesco convention. i would like to thank mrs. hieronymi very much for working on this program, for having been able to complete it before the end of this term. it's our joint achievement, but her contribution is the greatest. i would like to thank very warmly all the members of the committee on culture with whom i have worked during this term.
mr. chairman, please! i take the floor after mr raccu and mr savary, and i thank them both for their work in the european parliament. i don't know if this is my last speech, it depends on the next election. ladies and gentlemen! today we are discussing a case which is interesting in that it shows the confrontation between the absolutely fundamental interest of airlines, which in times of crisis are saving themselves by asking for the possibility of postponing to next year - just as we have said here - these limits, and on the other hand the interest of consumers, the interest of passengers. if we go hand in hand with -- which i think is rational -- the airlines, they can't do it at the expense of the passengers. the situation where they actually use this as an excuse and cancel flights with impunity is a very dangerous situation. i agree with mr rack that the restrictions on the take-on pool should be lifted, because it is becoming increasingly surreal and very irritating. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate commissioner tajani on his very good work in the commission.
in writing. - moldova is experiencing serious political and economic difficulties. the dramatic post-election events on the streets of chisinau on april 5, 7 and 8 show that the public, especially the youth, wants change and a quick unification with the european union. the communists are blocking the necessary reforms and negotiating with russia, despite officially declaring a rapprochement with european structures. moldova needs help on this road. a stronger eu involvement will give the moldovan government and people greater confidence that the eu is real for them and that membership is a possibility. the government must implement fundamental reforms in order to develop normally in the political and economic sphere. implement reforms leading to a market economy, democratization of social life and respect for civil rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by raimon obiols and germà on the situation of human rights in the world in 2008 and the eu's policy on the matter. i voted yes because we were able to reject a scandalous amendment attacking pope benedict xvi. if the pope were to be considered a threat to human rights, it would mean that the world would be turned upside down. i don't understand the people who made that amendment. unfortunately, there are so many human rights violations in the world that require our involvement, our attention and our action. the catholic church and many other faiths are our allies in the struggle for respect for human dignity. attacking the pope is nothing more than evidence of pre-election cynicism and harmful radicalism. it is a pity that some members of parliament, at the end of their term, get involved in such embarrassing games.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? roxana saberi is a 32-year-old journalist with dual citizenship, american and iranian, who has studied at several faculties in the united states, the united kingdom and iran. while pursuing her professional activities in iran, even after her accreditation expired, she was arrested and sentenced to eight years in prison on the false charge of spying for the united states. in protest of the false accusations and lack of a fair trial, she has gone on a hunger strike. she's very tired. under the care of doctors, she started drinking sugar water. she's currently on hunger strike pending an appeal. her health and life are still in danger. iran is known for its draconian punishments, including public executions, including of minors. we call for the release of mrs. saberi! we call for a fair trial! i think the international community should put pressure on iran to end these draconian practices.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? the political crisis in madagascar has led to an unconstitutional change of power. it was accompanied by riots that killed over 130 people. madagascar was under french rule until 1960. it is a country in difficulty, in need of humanitarian aid, especially food aid, and that is what madagascar has been given. the previous government and subsequent elections were supported by the military. president ravalomanana resigned on 17 march 2009 after losing the support of the army. he was appointed by the rebel army of rajoelina. the european union does not recognise this new authority because of the fact that the change was made undemocratically. the african union suspended madagascar's membership, criticizing the removal of ravalomanana by force. she threatened sanctions if constitutional order is not restored within 6 months. we call for the restoration of order in madagascar! we call on the international community to support the restoration of the rule of law in this country! i believe that the electoral process should be closely monitored, observed by representatives of international organisations, including and in particular our parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the first weeks of march, we witnessed a dramatic coup d'état in madagascar. the rivalry between the ousted president and the opposition leader has brought the island to the brink of civil war. on 17 march 2009, the day after the military took over the presidential palace, andry rajoelina declared himself the new head of state. the supreme court of madagascar has ruled that the former mayor of antananarivo is acting in accordance with the provisions of the constitution. however, there are doubts, for example, because the constitution says that a person who has reached the age of 40 can be president, and the new president is only 34. the seizure of power and the supreme court's decision have been widely controversial. the swearing-in ceremony was boycotted by most foreign diplomats, and the african union suspended madagascar from membership. the political crisis has led to widespread chaos and destabilization in a country where most of the population has been living in abject poverty for years on less than $1 a day, with limited access to food, water, basic health services and education. living in madagascar for six years, i have learned these problems in depth, and i am very supportive of the un's call for urgent humanitarian assistance for the people of madagascar. the european parliament should strongly condemn the coup d'état and all attempts to seize power in violation of democratic principles. the european union should call for the resumption of the work of both houses of parliament, which were suspended by the new regime. furthermore, the efforts of the african union special envoy and un representatives in talks with local parties and all stakeholders to restore constitutional order in the country without delay should be supported, and the international community should significantly step up its efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to the island's marginalised people.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? when political changes indicate that the opposition's rights to free public expression are being curtailed, one should be cautious. it's a strong signal that democracy is in danger. arresting the opposition sends an even stronger signal. this is what's happening in venezuela today. manuel rosales, the mayor of maracaibo, who ran against president chavez in the 2006 elections, was forced to flee the country. shortly after president chavez won a referendum guaranteeing him the ability to serve for another term, a warrant was issued for mr. rosales' arrest. he escaped earlier to peru, where he's hiding. this matter should be the subject of the next meeting of eurolat. venezuela is obliged to respect the conventions it has signed, guaranteeing respect for human rights.
madam president! the term of office of the current european parliament is coming to an end, so it is time for some summing up. and we have to be able to say objectively that we have done a tremendous amount of work, but that among these results we have clearly seen commitment and impact on the human rights side. this is particularly true in third countries. we can analyze the situation in iran, madagascar, venezuela, and even make resolutions and public statements about them. and it's not always the same, but we're operating far away from the countries that have these problems, far away from these societies, and not always this communication and the ability to effectively implement and communicate our ideas is good. worse, my dear fellow citizens, is the situation with democracy and the protection of human rights within the european union. this is a sad but shameful matter for us. millions of people are working underground today. so where are the human rights? the trade in children, women, is booming. so where are human rights in the union? how do we protect them? why are we not effective? and there was also, i must say, a very sad incident when we were demonstrating for the referendum in this chamber, when president pöttering called in the security forces, thereby violating human rights, our right to demonstrate and express our views. nevertheless, the balance is positive and i think it is essential that we continue this type of debate, this type of action, in the next term.
on behalf of all members of parliament, members of the european parliament and our staff and assistants, i would like to thank you, madam president, and you personally, the bureau and the entire management for the good conduct of the proceedings, the cooperation and the understanding you have shown. we wish you further success, re-election to the european parliament and much satisfaction in your public life and happiness in your personal life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, we congratulate ourselves on meeting in this courtroom. we are representatives of half a billion people on our continent. it's a big responsibility. i wanted to tell you a little bit about myself. i'm a scientist by profession. i started my political activity in 1980 in the trade union solidarity, which fought for freedom and fought for human and civil rights (applause). the fight for human and civil rights has always been my guiding principle. i was prime minister of the polish government from 1997 to 2001. for four years we negotiated poland's participation in the structures of the european union. i have been in the european parliament since 2004. i was involved in research, innovation, new technologies, then energy security, then climate change and mitigation and the eastern partnership. it just so happens that all of these issues that we just mentioned are also our priorities for the next term. we must remember that we are in a crisis today and our citizens expect us to deal with it first. we must also remember that we should improve the way parliament works, which has already begun thanks to the actions taken in recent years. the only way to remedy all this is to have the treaty of lisbon adopted. this is what will help us, it will make us more efficient, it will make us more effective, it will also enable us to operate on an international level. we have our commitments: the mediterranean, the eastern partnership, latin america, a strategic alliance with the united states and the rising powers of the world. these are our great challenges. and that is why the treaty of lisbon gives us an extraordinary tool to achieve them. finally, i wanted to tell you that the most important crisis we have to overcome is the crisis (let's admit it, it's difficult) of lack of trust in us by the citizens. let us say those words that are sometimes painful, because they allow us to overcome our weaknesses. our citizens often misunderstand us. let's do everything we can to change that. it is primarily up to us, the members of the european parliament, because we come from our regions every week and then we go all over europe at the end of the week, because we know best what they are suffering and what they are counting on, and that is why we want this most, so that we can better meet the challenges that lie ahead. (laughter) (applause)
dear colleagues, thank you for electing me president of the european parliament. for me it is both an enormous challenge and a great honour. thank you to those who voted for me; i will do everything not to disappoint your trust. for those of you who did not vote for me, i will try to convince you to me. i wish to work with all of you, regardless of political conventions. i count on your support. thank you, mrs svensson, for taking part in this election and for our discussions. to our colleagues, mario mauro and graham watson, who stood as candidates, and resigned early in order to strengthen the unity of our house, this was a profound gesture. mario, i know how important for you human rights are. in my homeland, solidarność was born, a great movement for human rights, … (applause)…which was possible thanks to the lesson of john paul ii. for me, human rights will also be a priority. graham, you spoke about the necessity of change in the european parliament, of the need for reform, of the need to involve in the european project our citizens, who are becoming more and more indifferent. i will make sure that, together, we will do everything we can to change this. (applause)
thank you, mr. chairman, for your comments. european parliamentarism has always provided for different ways of speaking. that is also the point of the european debate. i have no more comments from those who have spoken, but i think the president of the european commission is also giving me some signals that he would like to speak. president barroso, please.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr jerzy buzek, i would like to congratulate you most sincerely on behalf of myself and the european commission on your election as president of the european parliament. your personal history has led you to defend freedom, democracy and the rule of law with courage to help to impose them in your country, poland. your political career has taken you to the post of prime minister before you were elected as an mep. you are the first president of this house from a central and eastern european member state. it is because of this sum of exceptional experience and the values you believe in that you are now wearing your new clothes as president of the european parliament. twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall, five years after enlargement, your election is the victory of a united europe. many of us here know and appreciate your personality, your political views and your struggles. we are equally convinced that your personal qualities naturally call for you to play an active role as president and ardent defender of the interests of europe and its citizens. this experience and these values will enable you to take the place of hans-gert pöttering, who knows this institution better than anyone, in a harmonious way. i am pleased to welcome him as he leaves office, which he has held with extraordinary dignity and a european conviction without fail. in these difficult times and in the complex political model we have, we will have to work more than ever in a positive, constructive and united spirit to move europe forward. the power and powers of this parliament will be strengthened by the treaty of lisbon, which an overwhelming majority of parliament and the commission want to approve; in fact, a treaty which has already been approved by 26 parliaments in our europe deserves the respect of all parliamentarians. our institutions can only strengthen each other in the service of the european project. this is particularly true of relations between the european parliament and the european commission. we are well aware that it is cooperation between our two institutions that is moving the european project forward. mr president, dear friend, i can only wish you and the new parliament good work for a stronger europe in promoting the values of freedom and solidarity.
ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. we will start in three minutes.
mr szájer, there is no minimum number: you can leave one person or two persons; it does not matter.
dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words at the beginning. during the break in the sitting it came to my attention that an italian soldier was killed today in afghanistan in the nato-led mission there. his death comes after 15 british soldiers were killed in the past month. i think we always need to remember our men and women in the armed forces who are on missions abroad, often in dangerous situations, so that they know they are not forgotten. (applause)
thank you, sir. we now proceed to the order of business.
i'll read what the lithuanian parliament has passed and then i'll make a decision. i'll be in touch with the chairman about this.
the next item on the agenda is a joint debate on:- the report of the european council and the commission statement on the conclusions of the european council (18-19 june 2009) - the statement of the outgoing council presidency on the semi-annual activities of the czech presidency. i take this opportunity to welcome the prime minister of the czech republic, mr jan fischer. i also wanted to extend a warm welcome to the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso. we have a statement from the outgoing council presidency on the six-month czech presidency. let me just say a few words to start. yesterday we inaugurated the seventh term of the european parliament. you have given me the task, the duty, the great honour and the great privilege of leading the european parliament for the next two and a half years. i wanted to thank you again, very warmly, on this second day, for the trust you have placed in me. i'll do everything i can to make sure you're convinced that this decision was the right one. in the first half of 2009, the presidency was already held by the second country in the group of countries that joined the european union just five years ago. this is an opportunity for us to draw ever closer together. we know that this has been a difficult presidency because of the crisis, including the energy crisis. there was also the gaza crisis. we also had elections to the european parliament. as you know, however, during the european elections there is less contact between the presidency, parliament and the european commission. today we want to hear how the outgoing czech presidency sees the past six months and what conclusions and key points it has for what we should do in the near future. i would therefore like to ask the prime minister of the czech republic to speak and to give the presidency's view of the past six months and what should happen in the near future.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this time the response will be very brief. thank you for the discussion entries. once again, they have shown how diverse and wide-ranging the world of ideas in europe is, how difficult and, on the other hand, necessary it is to find some common denominator, a common voice. but i think it's refreshing for this continent, for this integration, and that's part of it. no doubt you will take your views, your analytical views, your evaluations, with you from this room, and i don't have the space to convince you otherwise, because this is not an academic debate. my government and, after all, the previous government did everything possible to implement the programme of the presidency and its agenda, and they did so with great persistence, regardless of how the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon proceeded in the czech republic. i want to make that very clear. as regards the troika and the work of the troika between france, the czech republic and sweden, i very much appreciate this mechanism. we have simply been able to work together very closely on these substantive agendas, and it is a mechanism that is very beneficial to the continuity and smoothness of the presidency's handover, and i greatly appreciate it. as for the ambitions of the czech presidency and how technocratic, leadership, visionary and so on it was, i am convinced that it came to the european union with a vision, came with a programme and was able to fulfil it. it's up to you to judge how successful that was. but let me also take away from here my conviction that this was a presidency which fulfilled its aims and its ambitions, although there will certainly always be criticism and areas where it has not been achieved for one reason or another. i thank you once again for the debate, for the critical remarks, but also for all those who have shown me understanding and appreciation, both politically and personally. once again, i wish you much success in your work.
president of the commission. − mr president, some concrete questions were raised. first of all, regarding the reintroduction of visa requirements for nationals of the czech republic travelling to canada, the commission regrets that canada has reintroduced this visa requirement. i discussed this issue with the canadian prime minister in the margins of the last g8 meeting. i expect this measure to be temporary and i hope that full visa travel between the czech republic and canada will be established soon. i asked commissioner barrot to meet czech officials to discuss this urgently, and i understand that the first meeting between commission officials and czech foreign affairs officials took place in brussels yesterday. on that basis, the commission will examine the situation carefully and will report on this in the visa reciprocity report that will be issued, probably, in september 2009. in cooperation with the czech government, we will consult the canadian authorities in order to get more information on the reasons behind their decision and we will make all the necessary efforts to restore visa-free travel. concerning the issue of the regulation and supervision of the financial market, which was also raised during the debate, of course there is still an agenda to complete, namely what was adopted at the european council as a consensus based on the de larosière report – a report i commissioned from that high-level group – but we also have to take note of the progress that has been made. the commission proposals on capital requirements, deposit guarantees, credit-rating agencies and on the solvency directive for the insurance sector have all been adopted by the european parliament and by the council. the commission has presented draft legislation on hedge funds and private equity, on securitisation and remuneration in the banking sector. it is now for the european parliament and the council to adopt them – if they agree – rapidly. another point that was mentioned during the debate was the issue of resistance to protectionism. in fact, it was a very important topic at the 1 march european council. during the last half of 2008 there was a dangerous drive for some protectionist internal measures in the european union. i think it is fair to say that the czech presidency and many member states made it clear that we cannot accept this kind of fragmentation of our internal market, so the discussion that took place during those months was also a very important development. finally, concerning the critics of the parliamentary ratification of the lisbon treaty, let me tell you i cannot understand how someone who has been elected to a parliament can call into question the parliamentary ratification of a treaty. a parliament is the basis of democracy and ratification by parliament is as legitimate as a referendum. (applause)
i would like to say once again to the prime minister of the czech republic: thank you very much for your presidency, for your summary and for your participation in the debate here today.
the next item is the statement by the president-in-office of the council on the presentation of the swedish presidency's programme.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, let me congratulate you on the election of your new president. i look forward to working with jerzy buzek during the swedish presidency and, of course, also in the period afterwards. it is an honour for me to address the european parliament as president of the european council. i know that more than half of you are elected to this house for the first time. together you all give a voice to 500 million europeans. there are high expectations for you. i speak to you in times of challenge. rarely has eu cooperation faced such severe and varied challenges. in the short term, we have the ambition to ensure a smooth transition to a new treaty the treaty of lisbon. we must continue to deal with the economic and financial crisis now and in the longer term. beneath the surface, a growing climate crisis threatens to be the greatest of our long-term challenges. one thing is clear. to succeed in the many challenges facing the swedish presidency, we must work side by side with you - you who are at the heart of european democracy. we hope for your support and cooperation, and that you are ready to take up the challenges with us. when we talk about the history of the eu, we often say that cooperation has laid the foundations for peace in a europe that has so often been marked by the opposite. i want to tell you that my grandfather was a swedish soldier on the norwegian border during the second world war, a war that sweden was not involved in. the closest my grandfather came to war was to occasionally catch a glimpse of it from a safe distance. this was sweden's longstanding relationship with europe: a distant observer. when europe was in ruins after world war ii, sweden was untouched. we were economically richer but poor in the european community. 20 years ago, the barbed wire between austria and hungary was cut. the berlin wall was torn down, and europe was changed almost overnight. then several countries began the journey that has led to the presence of representatives from 27 countries in this hall today. sweden was one of these countries. a late starter needs time to catch up. in the late 1980s, our political commitment in sweden to europe began to mature. the awareness of sweden's proximity to and dependence on europe is slowly growing. in bringing sweden into european cooperation, i.e. in upholding openness, globalisation and free trade, foreign minister carl bildt played a decisive role, driven by a firm conviction that sweden belonged in europe. eighteen years ago, we submitted our application for membership of the european union. finally, we had matured in the conviction that people's everyday lives and our future were best shaped by cooperation and community with others, that we had something to contribute and that we had much to learn. now we were no longer afraid of cooperation. we dared to be part of europe. these turbulent years for sweden, from the mid-1980s onwards, ran in parallel with my own deepening of political involvement. the desire for europe was strong in me and in many of my generation of swedish politicians. i remember how i was welcomed to visit the european parliament as a young member of parliament. it was a sign of the openness and accessibility of the parliament, despite the fact that sweden was outside the union at the time. a few years later, in 1997, after sweden became a member, i helped to set up the epp group's youth organisation, youth of the epp, and i became its first president. in this way i got to see how european cooperation worked in practice. together we sought european solutions to european problems. we not only got to know each other, but also each other's history and culture. it gave me a chance to get to know the capitals of europe and the number of churches i visited in europe is not easy to count. in 20 years, sweden has gone from being a distant observer to being an active participant in european cooperation. this, in turn, has affected the swedish people. ten years ago, one in three swedes thought that membership of the eu was good for our country, but the same number thought the opposite. today, it's the other way around. almost two out of three swedes think that eu membership is good for sweden. in the european parliament elections in june, over 45 percent of swedes went to the polls. this is eight percentage points more than in 2004, and it is more than the european average. today sweden is a country that appreciates and celebrates its membership of the eu. we woke up late, but we've been working hard to catch up. it is a victory for all of us who believe in european cooperation. (applause from the centre) ) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are facing the fate of our generation, a social problem that unlike many others is growing slowly and only in the wrong direction. our world has a fever. the fever is rising and it's up to us to respond. the greenland ice sheet is shrinking by more than 100 cubic kilometers every year. the west antarctic ice sheet is melting faster and faster. we know that the greenland ice sheet alone can lead to a rise in sea level of up to two meters. the effects will be dramatic. if sea levels rise just one meter worldwide, a hundred million people would have to move in asia alone. the people most affected are those in bangladesh, eastern china, and vietnam. however, we also face other serious consequences. climate change will threaten the survival of many plant and animal species. this is despite the fact that we are sticking to the two-degree target set by the un, which was endorsed last week by the g8 and the major economies forum in l'aquila. our climate is threatened by our use and dependence on fossil fuels. that's the bad news. so who are the good guys? though time is short, it is still on our side. but we must act now. we already have the conditions for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. according to the international energy agency, more than half of the measures needed to keep the 2c target can be achieved with the technology we already have. in addition, action on climate change is accompanied by very valuable side effects, effects which in themselves justify the action. when we use less energy, we save money. we are improving public finances while giving households more resources. when we invest in renewable energy and improve energy efficiency, we improve our energy security. we become less dependent on imports from countries that are sometimes both politically and economically unstable. investments in the green economy will create new jobs and drive growth in the coming decades. let me give you a concrete example. many eu countries were affected by the gas crisis in ukraine in january. last week, i spoke with president yushchenko about how we should try to avoid a similar incident. at the same time, it is important to be able to turn the prospects. if ukraine invested in energy efficiency to the same level as the czech republic or slovenia, this would translate into energy savings equivalent to all of its gas imports for own use from russia. ukraine could become completely independent of gas imports from russia and also save a lot of money just by increasing its own energy efficiency. that's how we have to search for the climate killer. (applause) i would like to thank you. twelve years ago, a coalition of volunteers was built in kyoto. volunteering alone is not enough, however. if we are to succeed in getting a global climate agreement in place, then the journey from kyoto to copenhagen must go from a coalition of volunteers to a shared responsibility. how are we gonna get there? europe must act together and united. we must show leadership and stand by our promises. europe is crucial to bringing others into a global agreement. we need to put a price on emissions around the world. we need to start using national carbon taxes and emissions trading. then the green alternatives emerge. if fossil fuel use is priced out of the climate equation, global warming will continue. the alternatives are not emerging. measures to increase energy efficiency will not be economically viable. however, this is not enough. we need a broader answer to the question 'how'. it is not enough to limit emissions in a circle of countries that voluntarily undertake reductions, but which together account for only 30 percent of emissions. nor are solutions based solely on the constraints of the most developed countries sufficient. because even if the so-called annex i countries were to reduce their emissions to zero, the rapidly growing emissions of the developing countries would still take us beyond the two-degree target. that is why we must discuss the financing of investment in developing countries. we need to ensure rapid technology transfer and we need to ensure that developing countries also make commitments to break the development they have now in front of them. we will also be demanding clear commitments in the medium term, including for non-european countries. the responsibility of a few must now become the responsibility of all. i know that the european parliament will take its responsibility. the swedish presidency sees you as our allies. now we want to write the story of how the climate threat was averted, and we want to write it with you. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the economic and financial crisis spread like wildfire over the world in a matter of weeks. some had warned, but for the vast majority it came as a surprise, especially its scope and depth. in a globalized world, problems also spread quickly to others. the power of the downturn is such that no one has a miracle cure to get out of it quickly. coordinated action by the eu is the best tool we have to meet the challenges of the crisis. besides, there's still a lot that can go wrong. given the circumstances, the eu was able to show leadership through the trials. we agreed on guarantees and traffic rules to support the banks. we agreed on a joint recovery plan to stimulate the economy. president sarkozy and the french presidency played an important role in this process, but i would also like to stress that the european parliament was a driving force. we now need to spend the autumn discussing further measures to get us through the crisis. the economic situation remains difficult and public finances are now strained in all member states. the commission forecasts that the eu deficits will exceed 80% of gdp next year. you can't just close your eyes and pretend it's not a problem. in the midst of all this, we must not forget that behind these figures are people who are worried about their jobs, and who wonder how they will manage to pay their rent and maintain their standard of living. it's our job to answer. when millions of europeans lose their jobs and are excluded, our entire well-being is threatened. this at a time when the pressure on our well-being is already great. we live longer, while working shorter hours and having fewer children. in 50 years' time, there will be twice as many elderly people as children in europe if this trend continues. so what can we do? we must restore confidence in the financial markets. we must quickly put in place effective supervision to prevent similar crises from occurring in the future. the swedish presidency is working to ensure that the council can reach agreement on this before the end of the year. we hope you'll help us bring it to a speedy and final conclusion. our citizens will not accept that taxpayers' money is used again and again to bail out financial institutions that have acted irresponsibly. we must quickly get out of the growing public deficits through a coordinated exit strategy and a gradual return to the rules of the stability pact. otherwise, short-term imbalances are followed by chronic deficits. that means that we are going to have to make big cuts, which are already a reality in parts of the eu, and which we have had experience of in sweden. then there's mass unemployment, social unrest and rising taxation. we must ensure a social dimension in european policy based on sound public finances and on bringing more people into the labour market. it's the absolute best way to protect our welfare systems. i know that this is a very important issue, especially here in the european parliament. it is not sustainable that three out of ten europeans of working age are outside the labour market. the aim must be an active labour market policy which, together with well-functioning social security systems, can effectively manage transitions. we must strengthen the employability of the individual and his or her ability to establish himself or herself on the labour market. we must also activate and reactivate the unemployed. with more in the work, there will be more to support those who are left out. we must also focus on reform, modernisation and adaptation to a new reality. the world outside the eu is not standing still. it's moving forward at an incredible speed. it's something we should embrace and embrace. a review of the eu's lisbon strategy can contribute to a much needed reform agenda. we will begin that discussion in the autumn. in the wake of the economic crisis, we can see ideas of increased protectionism. the wto confirms that the number of trade restrictive measures has increased significantly over the past three months. that is why i welcome the l'aquila agreement to relaunch the doha round to ensure that the countries of the world return to the free trade-friendly path that we know will benefit us all in the long run. the objective must be to bring europe out of the crisis stronger. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i travel around sweden and talk about eu cooperation, i get questions about the eu institutions. it's more about hooked cucumbers, snus and other everyday matters. nevertheless, the institutional framework is important, because it defines what we can do and in which areas. that is why the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is so crucial. the treaty will make the eu more democratic, more transparent, more effective and more influential on the international stage. most importantly, however, the lisbon treaty sets the stage for an inward-looking phase in eu cooperation. it is now time for the eu to look outwards and forward. the swedish presidency is ready to carry out all the preparatory work to ensure a smooth transition to a new treaty, but this naturally requires that the treaty has been ratified by all the member states. let us hope that it will become a reality in the coming months. international crime is growing stronger. criminal networks no longer see any boundaries for their activities. we see the spread of drug trafficking and human trafficking. it threatens our democratic values, and it threatens our citizens. at the same time, freedom of movement across our borders is fundamental to our community to study, work and live in another eu country. but a new age calls for new answers. that is why we will be drawing up a new programme in this area in the autumn, the so-called stockholm programme. the stockholm programme sharpens the instruments that create security in the eu and combat organised crime and terrorism. at the same time, we are striking a better balance between these instruments and the measures that ensure legal certainty and protect the rights of individuals. it also ensures that those seeking asylum in the eu are faced with a common and legally secure system of reception and asylum processing, and a more equal return policy. the dream of a future in europe is strong among many. at the same time, europe's population is getting older and older. a flexible system of labour immigration can meet these two realities. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. more than 50 years ago, six countries laid the foundations for european cooperation. today we are 27. we have grown in strength and influence, and we have grown in wealth and diversity. europe has been enriched. it also makes us better equipped to seize the opportunities of globalisation and to meet its challenges. alone is not strong. it is called 'membership negotiations'. ultimately, however, membership is about sharing a common set of values and following common rules. this is now being considered by those outside the eu, from reykjavik to ankara, across the western balkans. the two leaders of cyprus are facing a historic opportunity to agree on a solution to reunite the island that has been divided for too long. for those on the inside, it may be tempting to make the membership process the opportunity to resolve long-standing issues. in such cases, we must find solutions that benefit both sides and open up the way forward. otherwise, progress towards the objectives of continued european integration is jeopardised. the swedish presidency will work to move the enlargement process forward in accordance with the commitments made by the eu and strictly on the basis of the criteria in force. we're going to act like honest brokers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. with strength and influence comes global responsibility, which we still strive to shoulder. and with that comes an obligation to use that responsibility for the greater good. the eu is committed to peace, freedom, democracy and human rights. we have a responsibility to support the poorest and most vulnerable countries in the world, a responsibility to live up to the un millennium development goals. we have a responsibility to support the work of the un in other areas as well, to work together with our strategic partners, to engage in the world's crises - whether it be the middle east peace process, iran, afghanistan, pakistan, north korea or the great challenges on the african continent. however, we also have a responsibility for regional initiatives such as the mediterranean union and the eastern partnership, which create stability and cooperation between neighbouring countries with different conditions. i am particularly grateful for the european parliament's leading role in baltic sea cooperation. as early as 2005, the parliament presented a proposal for a strategy for the region. we now hope that this initiative will be crowned by the adoption of a baltic sea strategy at the european council in october. the conflicts in the balkans in the 1990s marked the beginning of the eu's engagement as a crisis manager, a commitment that is now steadily growing. today, the eu is involved in some 10 crisis response operations worldwide. in our time, the world's problems are knocking at the eu's door. throughout the world - and not least in our own neighbourhood - many people's hopes for their own development are linked to cooperation. let us live up to those expectations together. (applause from the centre) ) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. european cooperation has brought peace and prosperity to our continent, freedom and stability. we have open borders and a social model that combines market economy with concern for each other. this is our common europe. but our citizens also want to feel that europe is driven by ideas for the future and that cooperation is not just historical but forward-looking. we therefore have a responsibility as elected representatives to say what we want with europe. let me tell you how i see the future of europe. i want to see a europe that acts with power for democracy, peace, freedom and human rights on the global stage, and that dares to take its place on the foreign policy stage. we have amongst ourselves experience of what it is like to live without democracy and freedom. we have the credibility to act. i want to see a europe that takes the lead in tackling the climate threat, that overcomes the temptation to compete with an industry that does not pay for the emissions that are destroying our climate, and that re-engineers the incentives so that green technology pays off, so that our children and their children can experience nature as we know it. i want to see a europe that takes responsibility for the economy. lending for spending can't be the only motto. nor can it be that 'profits are private and losses are public'. let's rebuild the public finances. regulate sound financial markets. ensure the economic reforms we need for growth and a competitive industry for the future. i want to see a europe that develops its social model, a europe that combines a well-functioning welfare system with growth and social cohesion, a europe that, through work, entrepreneurship and sound public finances, creates the space to maintain and develop our welfare models, with the best interests of all our citizens at heart. i want to see a europe that does not allow itself to be seduced by the short-term crusade of protectionism, a europe that safeguards the single market which is the foundation of our european cooperation, and that allows goods and services to flow freely across our borders, to the benefit of ourselves and the rest of the world. i want to see a europe that is humble in the face of differences, open to the arguments of others and strongly willing to compromise, with the common good in mind. such a europe will stand firm in all times. (applause) i would like to thank you. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is an honour for me to stand here with you and represent european democracy. many people have told me that this will be the most difficult presidency in many years. the trials are many, and we must prepare for the unexpected. many wonder whether a country the size of sweden can shoulder this responsibility. not alone, but together, we can rise to the challenge. let us do it with vision and action, with effort and courage. europe needs it. the people of europe need it. the european project is about the dream of solving people's problems together. that dream is what makes europe strong. this year, 2009, is a fateful year for european cooperation. now we have a chance to take the next step. the swedish presidency is ready to take up the challenge. let us embrace it together! (applause from the left)
president of the commission. − mr president, these are no ordinary times and this will be no ordinary presidency. in addition to the usual legislative work, the swedish presidency will have other kinds of highly political challenges to deal with, and no one better to tackle these challenges than prime minister reinfeldt and the swedish presidency team. today i want to highlight two of the biggest policy challenges facing the european union in the next six months: dealing with the economic crisis and negotiating an ambitious international agreement on climate change in copenhagen. the worst financial and economic crisis in living memory continues to have devastating effects within our communities and families, with unemployment in particular continuing to rise. getting the economy back on track remains the top priority. the european union’s collective action has led to an unprecedented fiscal effort that is producing concrete results. we have also shown solidarity amongst member states, for instance by doubling the ceiling for balance of payments support for non-eurozone member states to eur 50 billion. we now need to fully implement the recovery package in all its aspects and make sure it translates into the creation of jobs and the promotion of economic activity on the ground. i believe it is essential to prioritise measures that limit unemployment and get people back to work. here we can build on the results of the employment summit held in may as part of a commission initiative with the czech, swedish and spanish presidencies. we need to put into practice the shared commitment to youth and to employment. of course, responsibility for labour market policies lies with member states, but we can and should use existing european instruments to help member states keep people in employment and train them for the jobs of the future. that is why the european commission is about to make a proposal to simplify structural fund procedures and waive the need for national cofinancing from the european social fund for 2009 and 2010. we will also redeploy resources in order to fund a new microcredit facility for employment and social inclusion. i hope this parliament will support these proposals. the commission proposals building on the de larosière report i commissioned last october will form the basis for strengthened financial market supervision and regulation. with the proposals already made – many of them already approved by this parliament and by the council, some still in our decision-making process – we are indeed taking the lead globally in the reform of the financial international system. we will continue to do so, i am sure, at the g20 in pittsburgh in september. moving all these dossiers forward over the next six months is essential to build a new economy, because – let us make no mistake – the post-crisis economy cannot and will not be the same as the pre-crisis economy. we need to rebuild our economic model and put the values back at the heart of our social market economy, where they belong. we need to build an economy and a society based on opportunity, responsibility and solidarity, an economy which will have to reinvent new sources of growth because we cannot rely for ever on monetary and fiscal stimulus; a europe of open and well-performing markets; a europe of smart, green growth; a europe with more effective regulation and supervision of financial markets; a europe that deepens its single market and uses its potential to the full; a europe that resists the trends for fragmentation or protectionism. concerning climate change, europe is already the first region in the world to implement far-reaching, legally binding climate and energy targets. i am proud of the way the commission worked with the last parliament and the council to put this legislation in place, and i want to work closely with you and the presidency in the run-up to copenhagen. our leadership role was very much appreciated in the meetings last week in l’aquila in the g8, and in the major economies forum. you will have heard about the progress made at these meetings. for the first time, all participants committed to capping the temperature increase at 2°c to respect climate science. this is certainly a welcome step forward, but we should not delude ourselves: our ambition and our commitment are not yet matched by others. europe is far ahead of the curve in relation to the rest of the world and, frankly, 145 days from copenhagen, that worries me. in the coming weeks we will step up our work with international partners to secure clear commitments in copenhagen. we also need to make progress on the necessary means to support developing countries and boost technology transfer. in september the commission will put its proposals for financing on the table so that we can build a european consensus and negotiate with others. the climate change agenda is, of course, closely linked with another priority: energy security. today, the commission will adopt proposals to strengthen our rules governing the security of gas supply and reinforcing solidarity between member states, which i trust the swedish presidency will take forward with your support. these are the headline priorities – and rightly so. but there is plenty of other important work to be done over the next six months. let me just flag the stockholm programme, where the commission has recently tabled an ambitious vision putting the citizen at the heart of our justice, freedom and security policy, balancing security with the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights. for most of this decade the european union has been engaged in internal institutional debates. changes to our governing treaty are absolutely necessary to equip the enlarged european union to work democratically and effectively. i hope that we will see the ratification of the lisbon treaty in the coming months so that we can put its provisions to work and so that we can move on with the policy agenda i have just outlined. it is important to discuss procedure, but i believe it is even more important to discuss substance. the swedish presidency, as well as the next spanish presidency, will have to oversee – hopefully – a complex transition to the new treaty in which the commission and parliament will have to play their full part. the european union has constantly reinvented itself, from the initial vocation of healing a war-torn continent to the building of the internal market and then on to the reunification of europe. during these last 50 years europe has consistently exceeded expectations, confounding doubts. i am sure that we will also rise to the new challenge we face: laying the foundations for the smart, green economy of the future. we will succeed if we respect the key lesson from half a century of european integration: the european union advances when all its parts cooperate in a spirit of openness, trust and partnership. the swedish presidency programme recognises this; the european commission stands ready to play its part and so, i am sure, does this parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by congratulating you on the election yesterday of a great president and new head of parliament. i am doing this, as the president knows very well, as a polish politician and as a human being. mr. chairman, you know that you're the reason i met my wife, which is still my greatest achievement in life. congratulations and good work. the european conservatives listened carefully to the prime minister's speech and i am happy to say that we share your views on many issues. i think it is particularly important that you have announced that you will actively fight the crisis. the economic crisis, which is the worst crisis in our civilized world since the 1930s, is causing legitimate anxiety throughout europe: in the poorer and richer countries, in the northern countries and in the southern countries. i'm glad the prime minister has announced that he's going to take an active role in this crisis, and i'm glad you see the priorities that we share. it's more free markets, less regulation, more economic freedom, more openness to free trade. these are the recipes for economic growth for our continent, our european union. mr. prime minister, we also share your belief that it's important to address climate issues. climate issues i know that the prime minister has a bold view on this issue, i want to encourage you to have that courage in this area they show very clearly that today we are no longer just living in one europe, but in one world and the threats are common, we have to fight them effectively. i am very pleased that the prime minister has mentioned the fight against crime as a serious problem for our european union. i can express my conviction that since sweden is already a crime novel power, we will also be successful in the fight against crime under your leadership. it is very important (and i am glad that you and your foreign minister have recently spoken about this) that you are willing to look with attention at our neighbours and, i hope, to sympathize with the idea of an enlarged union. we must not forget that beyond the eastern borders of the union there are countries which have a right to participate in this area of democracy and prosperity in which we are already today. mr. chairman, i regret to say there is only one point on which my group disagrees with you. it is a question of ratifying the treaty of lisbon. you spoke very well about democracy in the context of the lisbon treaty. it is worth remembering that it was in a democratic referendum that the irish people rejected the lisbon treaty. with respect to democracy, we should respect the voice of the irish. mr prime minister, i hope that your priorities, which are very much shared by the european conservatives, will be an opportunity for you to lead the european union effectively and to fight effectively against the crisis that is our biggest problem today. (laughter) (applause)
prime minister! we have listened to your speech with great interest and i hope that the main points of the programme will be successfully implemented. i wanted to focus on three challenges. first, european solidarity, which is particularly needed in the financial crisis. it cannot be that way, and we cannot accept that there are cases of unequal treatment of individual european countries. it cannot be that one is allowed to subsidize the banking sector and the other is stigmatised for trying to strengthen the shipbuilding sector. this is not solidarity, this is hypocrisy. secondly, we are pleased that the baltic sea strategy is one of the priorities of the swedish presidency. this is an important area of macro-regional cooperation. the ecosystem there must be protected from threats such as the very dangerous and also financially absurd nord stream project. the need for energy diversification should also be mentioned. third, remember that moscow is not just about turning a chicken, as georgia has learned. i hope that by taking over the union's helm for the next six months, sweden will be as decisive as minister carl bildt, who denounced russia's aggression against georgia. i believe that the swedish presidency will meet these challenges, and can count on our support.
mr. chairman, please! the swedish presidency will be tasked with continuing the enlargement of the union and the future of the lisbon treaty. the german constitutional court recently ruled that the lisbon treaty could only be accepted if the primacy of the decisions of the bundestag and bundesrat was safeguarded, at the same time calling into question the idea of european federalism. the treaty of lisbon is thus a legal monster, as not only germany, but also the irish people and the presidents of the czech republic and poland have seen in the referendum. in this context, the swedish presidency should initiate a pan-european debate on the role of the national parliaments of all 27 member states and should develop a new model of cooperation between sovereign european nations. it is to be hoped that the swedish presidency, to which i wish success, will listen more attentively to the voice of the people.
mr. chairman, please! he would like to thank prime minister reinfeldt for including the development of cooperation with our neighbours in the east among his priorities. i would also like to thank sweden for its commitment to the development of the eastern partnership. in this context, i would like to point out that in the next six months we - the union and sweden as the presidency - will have to deal with the problems of human rights violations in belarus. for six months, three businessmen, mr. avtuchowicz, mr. leonov and mr. osipienko, have been in prison and cannot wait for a fair trial. of the 12 youth activists who took part in the demonstration in january 2008, 11 were sentenced to prison terms, and one a few days ago to a year in prison. mr. prime minister, please pay attention to the issue of human rights violations in belarus over the next six months.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i'm hoping to return some of the time i borrowed earlier. (the president cut short the speaker) i know you're waiting for a vote. let me thank you all for representing your respective party groups in a very good way. i note your zeal and the expectation of the swedish presidency, your desire that we should be more assertive in the climate negotiations and act against the financial crisis and economic downturn. you have noted our baltic sea strategy, our stockholm programme, our continued drive towards enlargement, and i would like to thank you all for the support we feel for it. i also know that the transition to the treaty of lisbon will bring us together again, and that we have a lot to do together this autumn. several of the senior officials in my administration are with me here today. we have noted and followed closely your questions and comments. i hope to work closely with you and see you again in the fall.
we also count on constant discussion and keeping in contact with the presidency. it is very important for the european parliament. it is the beginning of our term of office and we must do many things, and this is a very good starting point: the swedish presidency. thank you very much, prime minister. i would also like to thank the president of the european commission. (applause) the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is an honour to be able to stand here for the first time. i expect to be here numerous times during the coming six months to address different issues. the issue on our agenda at this time is iran. before going into the substance of that issue, let me just express our heartfelt condolences to iran on the occasion of the tragic accident earlier today. we sincerely regret the loss of life and express our sympathy with all of those affected by this tragedy. the issue of iran is obviously very high up on the swedish presidency’s agenda. that has to do with the outcome of the election and the question marks – to put it very mildly – that were raised after that election, as well as the political developments that we have seen since then. i think you are all aware of the fact that the european union has taken a very strong and a very principled stand when it comes to these events. we have reiterated that questions over the conduct of elections are issues for the iranian authorities to truly investigate and clarify. we have also been very clear in our response to what we have seen happening on the streets of tehran. we have condemned the crackdown, the violence and the use of force that we have seen against peaceful demonstrations; we condemn the crackdown against journalists, media outlets, communications and protestors. those are contrary not only to the norms and values that we represent but also, obviously, to the wishes for a more open and more reform-oriented society expressed by so many iranians. that being said, we remain in our principled policy of wishing another, a better, a new relationship with the nation of iran. it is a rich nation that has much to contribute to the development of the world and the development of its own region, and we would hope that at some point in time – hopefully not too distant – there will be that possibility for a truly new relationship. before concluding, let me just note one issue that has been occupying us quite a lot, and that is that the iranian authorities did detain a number of personalities who are staff members of european missions, as well as some european nationals. we have been in constant touch with the iranian authorities over these issues. we consider possible accusations levelled against them to be baseless, and i can assure you that we will continue to engage with the iranian authorities in all the ways we can until these issues are resolved in a satisfactory manner – that is, that the persons in question are released.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is my first opportunity to congratulate all the honourable members on their election to the new european parliament. i can say, on behalf of the commission, that we very much look forward to a constructive cooperation with you, including of course on some of the most pressing international challenges that we face, and the subject of today’s debate is certainly one of those. my colleague benita ferrero-waldner is travelling this week and so i have offered and have been delighted to be able to speak on her behalf in parliament today. this parliament plays an important part in maintaining and developing relations between the european union and the islamic republic of iran. exchange visits between parliament’s iran delegation and members of the majlis have already played an important role in increasing mutual understanding. parliament has also played its part in setting up several instruments that serve as an important basis for eu activities in iran, and we in the commission hope to continue to make good use of these in the years ahead. today’s debate was prompted by the recent iranian presidential elections and the subsequent events. while, as the presidency has said, the evolution of iran’s politics and policies are chiefly a matter for the citizens of iran, there can be no doubt of the broader significance, and it is right that we should follow these developments closely. the european union has taken very clear positions on the situation in iran following the presidential elections and has remained united in these positions. we have expressed full respect for the sovereignty of iran, but have stressed our deep concern about the post-election violence, as we would when lives are lost or rights are put at risk in any country. allegations of european interference in the iranian elections or any involvement in the protests which followed are unfounded. however, suppression of peaceful demonstrations, arbitrary detentions and severe censorship of the media constitute violations of human rights which cannot be considered matters confined to the domestic affairs of any country. in spite of the current delicate situation in iran, the commission believes strongly in maintaining a dialogue. that was the case before the elections, and it remains the case now. the european union and iran have many common and pressing interests, including the fight against drug trafficking and support to afghan refugees. these demand our continued attention and cooperation, and we hope that iran will share this view. the commission continues to search for ways to deploy community instruments in constructive activities in iran. we can increase mutual understanding by continuing, for instance, our cooperation through erasmus mundus academic exchanges. we are convinced that the european union should keep all available channels of communication open with iran. we should strive for engagement with iran at all levels. when possible and prudent, we stand ready to continue and expand cooperation in the future. our present differences with the government of iran are many; some are very serious. we call on the government of iran to join us in trying to find solutions to our differences through dialogue. it is only through discussing the challenges that lie between us in a spirit of mutual respect that we can hope to overcome them. europe has never closed the door to such discussions, and it remains open today. finally, i join with the presidency in expressing condolences to the families of iranians and armenians involved in the tragedy of the plane crash today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i want to reflect the tone of the debate in the extraordinary meeting of the outgoing committee on foreign affairs, which met last wednesday because there was no time to convene the new committee. everyone knows the facts all too well, so i will not dwell on that. the union has a duty to stress the universality of human rights, to follow up human rights violations in iran very closely and to take iran to task for the brutality and violence. last week we, in the committee on foreign affairs and the delegation for relations with iran, met with representatives of the civil society of iran, and these are aspects that seem to us extremely important. we fully endorse the statements and positions taken so far by the presidency, council and commission, but we are also asking the council to ensure that eu member states and their ambassadors in tehran are fully complying with eu guidelines on human rights defenders and on the prevention of torture. we should also convey to the commission our insistence that all available means should be deployed. we should support and strengthen civil society organisations in iran, notably via the european instrument for democracy and human rights, and deploy all efforts for renewed engagement with iranian civil society in such uncontroversial areas as the fight against narcotraffic, refugee issues, academic exchanges, and visits to europe by journalists, to name but a few. they could help to further people-to-people contacts and lead to improved freedom of expression in the country. pressure on human rights, yes, but no isolation! dialogue, even if a very difficult dialogue. we are going through a very difficult and tense period with iran. the crucial nuclear question is on hold, and we ask the question: what is the way forward? well, sanctions are one possible measure being explored. we really believe the union must find a way to re-engage in dialogue with iran on all these issues. the need to find ways of building fresh trust and to create a strong diplomatic process has never been greater than now. we should offer our full support to the council and the commission in their efforts. in turn, we, the european parliament, must continue with our efforts to strengthen the parliamentary diplomacy aspect of our relations with iran through our strengthened links with the majlis.
mr. chairman, please! the death of innocent people is always tragic. but if they die defending values like freedom or truth, then we can say that their suffering is not in vain - as is the case with the recent victims in iran. what's wrong is when a regime shoots at protesters, jails opponents, tortures and kills them. the only source of hope and optimism is that these events may bring to the attention of politicians and the world public the true nature of the iranian regime, which is capable of actions far removed from the minimal standards of the modern world. this regime has blood on its hands. we should remember that and we should act to change a state of affairs that we cannot accept. in such situations, the question is always the same: what can we do? we can support the demands and proposals that have already been made. first, the iranian authorities must stop using violence against those who hold different views from the regime. in the case of countries like iran, the observance of fundamental human rights should be monitored and guaranteed by the international community. second, iran should have free and fair elections, in which all candidates are allowed to stand, not just those who are allowed to stand. incidentally, those who decide on the active electoral law do not have a democratic mandate themselves. the fairness of the elections should be verified by independent external observers otherwise the elections have no meaning. third, we should do everything we can to make the solution to iran peaceful, political, and that means we should support those iranians who want fundamental change in their country, which will result in iran being governed by those who win fair elections, and iran itself ceasing to be a threat to global security. the leader of the iranian opposition in exile told mrs. rajavi that what happened in iran was the beginning of the end of the regime. i sincerely hope mrs. rajavi is right.
mr president, as the situation in iran escalates and the violation of democracy also presents a danger to the stability of the whole region, we have to express our concern and condemnation – but declarations must not only be symbolic and empty. some european leaders are talking about new sanctions to be imposed on iran, but a discussion is needed right now on the promotion of democracy at grass-root level in this country. i am polish, and we in eastern europe know how important these types of actions are for the establishment of democracy. a promotion should be adapted to the political and economic situation in a given country, but previous eu experience in the promotion of democracy in north africa, the middle east and eastern europe has to be reviewed and evaluated in order to see what should be done in iran, what can be done in iran and what is effective under given circumstances in this country. i also want to remind you that, if the eu wants to be credible, it also has to undertake some measures in moldova. soon we will face a new test – on 29 july – with the elections in moldova. the eu has to do everything it can to ensure free and fair democratic elections in this country. it is not enough to talk about support for democracy: we in the european parliament and european institutions have to be more active in that respect.
mr. chairman, please! certainly, the electoral process in iran needs to be brought under control, but the beginning of the conflict should be a declaration by the iranian authorities to refrain from the use of force and to release imprisoned opposition activists, human rights defenders, journalists, protesters, as well as citizens of other countries who are blamed for the situation in iran. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international conventions, including the international covenant on civil and political rights. i also want to express my concern about iran's nuclear program. tehran has the right to a peaceful programme, but it also has the duty to restore the confidence of the international community that iran's nuclear activities are exclusively peaceful.
mr. chairman, please! the repression of the protests in xinjiang province has once again shown us the authoritarian nature of the communist government in beijing. at least 180 people were killed and 1,600 injured in the worst ethnic clashes in china in decades. it is the duty of the european parliament to condemn violence which has its roots in discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion. this is also how it should be in this case, where the authoritarian force of the state has been directed against the uighur minority. but she is not the only victim of totalitarian regimes. the citizens of a europe based on christian values have a special duty to christian minorities persecuted in other parts of the world. in china, this minority is estimated to number over 30 million people, according to unofficial sources. in this way, people of the size of a large european country are harassed, followed, denied employment, tortured and murdered by the chinese communist authorities. the chinese regime realizes that the christian faith brings with it a desire for freedom and the rule of law, and that is why it is trying to limit its development. but the church's fight against it has not produced the desired results, for the number of believers is steadily increasing year by year. the chinese authorities must understand that the middle kingdom will only become a fully modern country if it respects the basic principles of democracy and religious freedom.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in honduras requires the european union to continue to take concrete and decisive action to stabilise and restore constitutional order and to prevent the escalation of the conflict between supporters and opponents of the ousted president zelaya. i therefore support the initiative of my colleague, mr salafranca, to formulate as soon as possible the possibility of a mission to honduras to be signed by the european parliament. the parties to the conflict must negotiate as soon as possible to reach an agreement that would allow president zelaya to return to office and complete his current term, but without the possibility of changing the constitution to allow his re-election. that would be a solution that would hopefully stabilize the situation, perhaps be acceptable to both... (the president cut the speaker off)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 july 2009.
two weeks ago, i attended the 70th anniversary of the start of world war ii in westerplatte. the war that plunged europe into the abyss, took millions of lives and divided our continent for nearly half a century. we must never forget that war and violence may return to europe. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ there was another act of violence that summer. two spanish guardia civil officers were killed by eta while on duty. i am also sad to announce the death of former belgian member of the european parliament, mr ernest gline, who passed away on 10 august at the age of 78. mr gline was a member of the european parliament from 1968 to 1994 and was also president of the socialist group from 1979 to 1984. it is also with great sadness that i announce the death of former british member of the european parliament sir christopher prout, who passed away on 12 july at the age of 67. sir christopher prout, later lord kingsland, was a member of the european parliament from 1979 to 1994, and was chairman of the european democrats group from 1987 to 1994. before we begin, i would like to take a moment to remember those who have died defending europe or working to make it what it is today. (parliamentarians rise and hold a minute of silence)
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday, 10 september 2009.
thank you for your attention. i shall be contacting you and the other members of this house to clarify this matter. wednesdayi received a request from the greens/european free alliance group on wednesday.
now i'd like one of you to vote against. you have come forward, chairman daul. please, please!
mr. chairman, please! tomorrow, mr barroso will be seeking our support for his next term. polish shipbuilders have repeatedly asked the commission for decisions to save their workplaces. they got nothing because the commission under j.m. barroso has no regard for the problems of working people. the social consequences of the commission's anti-social policy are still painfully affecting thousands of polish shipbuilders. this is not the kind of policy or the kind of union that the citizens want, and it is for them that we are here. if we support mr barroso, nothing will change. the commission's actions and legislative initiatives will increasingly diverge from the needs of europe. let us elect a president and commissioners who guarantee the primacy of social objectives over economic ones, let us strive for a social europe in which the fate of working people is no less important than profit. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled by the sweet words that hide the ruthless, dehumanized policies of the right.
a few months ago, we debated in this room the situation in the polish shipbuilding industry. we had a deal. president schulz, on behalf of our political group, confirmed that parliament would not agree to the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs in shipyards and their suppliers, to the elimination of this sector in poland and to the weakening of european industrial capacity. six months later, the situation is as follows: the government has been unable to carry out privatisation, the commission has totally ignored the position of parliament, the shipyards are not producing, the future is unclear, people have been left without work and suspended in a vacuum. we should agree that this commission lacks a concept of european industrial policy, that this commission does not realise that ships have been, are and will be needed.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to speak on a very difficult issue for all of us - both nato and the european union - the mission in afghanistan. i wanted to draw particular attention to the fact that, in the context of the increase in attacks on soldiers, especially in the context of the presidential elections, which we know have increased and intensified these types of attacks during this period, we should pay more attention to humanitarian, social and economic aid to the afghan people, who have unfortunately been subjected to constant war for 30 years. this is especially important in the context of rebuilding trust and rebuilding this country. recently, as a result of the weakness of the afghan army and police, probably as a result of bribery, polish captain daniel ambroziński was killed. we know that the economic situation of the afghan army and police is very difficult. the soldiers there, according to the media, earn only $20. it is important that social and humanitarian aid and economic aid go hand in hand with military action.
the question we face today is whether the german government's successful €4.5 billion restructuring aid to opel is an economic or political activity. the best answer to this question was given by the german government representatives in the trust that decided on the choice of the magna consortium as the opel buyer. one of them did not take part in the decisive vote, while the other - manfred wennemer - voted against, considering it a political decision. the european commission should analyse the nature of the public aid granted to opel and give us, the members, an answer as to whether it was a kind of protectionism of the local market at the expense of factories and jobs in other countries of the european union. i am particularly sensitive to the severity of the european commission's assessment, as the szczecin and gdynia shipyards were not given the chance to continue producing ships. will commissioner kroes be as rigorous and fair in her assessment of this public aid case as she was in the case of the polish shipyards? europeans fear that double standards are being applied in this area. and i'd like to conclude by saying that the global economic crisis has been going on for a year. the european commission should be prepared to assist, assess, advise and propose solutions in this difficult time that are not burdened by suspicions of political or protectionist motives of individual member states of the european union. i have the impression, unfortunately, that the commission has been passive in this case.
member of the commission. − mr president, yes, a crisis has hit the poorest countries the hardest and there is in fact not much that we can do about it. we can only talk about the remedies to get them back on track, and obviously this will take more time than it will take in the developed world because the mechanisms to produce new economic growth are much less developed in those countries. one of the remarks that have been made by several members is about the fact that a lot of member states are in fact backtracking on their official development assistance (oda) engagements. the eu member states agreed in 2005 individual minimum aid targets of 0.51% for eu-15 and 0.17% for eu-12, for the new member states to be reached by 2010 and respectively 0.7% and 0.33% by 2015. the countries that had already achieved aid levels higher than these targets promised to maintain. based on these confirmations and higher national pledges of some member states, the eu should collectively reach 0.56% of oda by 2010. i believe that the crisis should not be an excuse to water down donors’ aid promises, and i will insist on remaining committed to delivering the promised aid levels both for eu member states as well as other donors. in 2008 the eu oda has increased by around eur 4 billion to a level of 0.40% of oda and the collective eu oda is forecast to continue increasing. on the basis of the information gathered from member states we foresee the eu collective oda increasing to eur 53.4 billion in 2009 that represents 0.44% and eur 58.7 billion representing 0.48% in 2010. this also means that, without additional steps by member states to fulfil their individual targets, the collective targets for 2010 will not be achieved. the forecasted trend of a continuing increase of eu oda relies on those member states that are trying to respect their commitments but efforts are required by all member states and i will continue to insist on that with the respective member sates. it is their responsibility. this is an engagement that they have taken up, and the crisis should not be an excuse to water down their engagements, i would even say, to the country. several members have also insisted on the reform of the international financial institutions. this is a target that i can fully subscribe to. the g20 has set out a precise timetable for governance reforms of the bretton woods institutions urging them to accelerate the implementation of their own plans for reform which predate the london summit. some deliverables are expected as early as april next year and i am confident that solutions can be found on outstanding issues. given the current momentum in imf reform created by the g20, the commission underlines the importance of advancing the second phase of reform at the world bank with a view to concluding it by spring 2010. the london summit of 2 april 2009 will go down in the history of the g20 as one where development issues were handled in their own right and in the presence of developing countries’ representatives. in preparation for the next g20 these last months have seen intense activity by the institution tasked with following up. in august the imf board of governors approved a usd 250 billion general allocation of imf special drawing rights, of which usf 18 billion will go to low-income countries, and the imf will be called to account in pittsburgh on other measures for low income countries. so this is i think a positive evolution. louis michel, my predecessor, has also insisted on the flexibility, claiming that the budgetary support mechanism is the most flexible we have and this is obviously true but, of course, this also means that we need a counterpart with the developing countries and we need to be in a position to have political dialogue with them and also monitoring mechanisms, so it presupposes a minimum cooperation on their behalf, but, once that is in place, i also believe that, especially, sectoral budgetary support is a very adequate procedure. i do not quite understand why this resolution that has been introduced by the committee on development and refers to the g20 meeting of pittsburgh is not being voted on before the g20 meeting. i do not grasp that. there will probably be one or another technical explanation for that but i think it gives the wrong signal from this newly elected parliament that we are going to debate such a resolution after the g20 meeting in pittsburgh, which is due to happen, if i remember correctly, from 22 to 24 september, before our next meeting in strasbourg in october. this is not within my discretion but i must say that together with members who have advanced this that i very much deplore that we have not been able to vote upon this resolution during this part-session.
the next item on the agenda is the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for the financial year 2010.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? it is a great privilege for me to be here today. i am very humbled by this and it will be an exciting time to present the council's draft budget to you. europe is facing significant challenges. the economic situation looked much more worrying six months ago. the situation seems to have stabilized. the risk picture is more balanced and the risks of being drawn into a continuing deep spiral have been reduced. but we are facing significant problems: rising unemployment, growing budget deficits and growing debt. against this background, there is a strong need to maintain long-term sustainable public finances. many countries have a long way to go to achieve fiscal balance. demographics will put a great deal of pressure on public finances. the climate challenge will require the reallocation and allocation of resources. in our view, the budget we are about to agree on should be characterised by great restraint in order to leave room for future needs, emphasis on european added value and investments which can in the short term take us out of the economic crisis and in the long term also strengthen our competitiveness. the council's proposal, which was adopted unanimously, addresses and helps to meet these challenges. it's a disciplined budget. it's a sound government. it stimulates research, education, infrastructure, competitiveness and innovation and it stimulates cohesion. the council proposal also includes margins to deal with unforeseen events. the logic behind our proposal is simple. if we want to stimulate growth, employment and prosperity, the textbook says that we must pursue a policy that is resilient, credible and prudent, but with investments in education, research, infrastructure and in the elimination of income disparities across the union. that's exactly what we've been trying to do. the council's proposal is balanced but still ambitious. compared with the 2009 budget, commitments increase by 1.1% and payment appropriations by just under 4%. our proposal and the agreement we want to reach must meet the following basic requirements, which were also applied at the council's first reading: the budget must ensure that there is sufficient funding for the various eu policy priorities in 2010. the eu must be able to react swiftly to the challenges ahead. the focus must be on adding european value. budgetary discipline and sound financial management are required. otherwise we will not be able to return to a balanced public finances in stages. it's important to respect the ceiling. the eu must have sufficient flexibility to cope with additional needs and unforeseen events. it is crucial that the eu budget has sufficient margins. the budget proposal we are presenting amounts to eur 138 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 121 billion in payment appropriations. the reductions made by the council compared with the preliminary draft budget by the commission are based on a detailed analysis of the implementation of the budget, the budget forecasts and the declarations of activities, and we look at the capacity to implement programmes and measures. the implementation rate and absorption capacity have been the key criteria in our analysis. i thought i'd just get into the headlines a little bit. subheading 1a, research and innovation, is the most important element and adequate funding has been secured in our draft budget. projects in the energy and infrastructure sectors are another area where more resources are being added. adjusting for the accounting effects of the economic recovery plan, the increase in this area amounts to approximately 8%. eight percent of the time. that's a lot. as you all know, the financing of the european recovery plan will be one of the subjects we will have to discuss in the autumn. under 1b, the council accepted the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission. as regards payments, the council considers that some cuts can be made in relation to the preliminary draft budget, but i would like to stress that our proposal nevertheless implies an increase in payment appropriations of 3,2% compared with 2009. title 2: the council proposes strong increases in both commitment and payment appropriations compared with 2009, of 4.5% and 9.5% respectively, after accounting for the recovery plan. title 3: the council made only a few minor adjustments to the commission's preliminary budget. there will be adequate resources for migration policy, including frontex. title 4: it is extremely important to leave a substantial margin for the ceiling under this heading in order to deal with unforeseen needs in the best possible way. the council is therefore securing a margin of approximately eur 310 million at its first reading. this is particularly justified in the light of the letter of amendment which covers additional needs in this area. as regards the reserve for disaster aid, the council accepted the commission's proposal for commitment appropriations. in the context of the common foreign and security policy, its importance is growing and the council is therefore ensuring that adequate resources are available for this purpose. how to administer: given the economic situation and the specific characteristics of each institution, the council made certain targeted reductions. the ambition is that the administration should not grow faster than inflation. the institutions' requests for additional services for new activities were not accepted, except for the new authorities planned for 2010 and for frontex. at our conciliation meeting in july, the importance of the recruitment linked to the 2004 and 2007 enlargements was re-emphasised and a joint statement was agreed between us. at the same time, your representatives indicated their willingness to try to find a common approach to the real estate policy of the eu institutions and bodies. i am sure that we will be pleased to find such a statement later in the autumn. before i close, i would like to recall and highlight the positive atmosphere that prevailed in our meetings with the european parliament. i think that constructive cooperation is the only way to arrive at a good budget.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to have an opportunity to speak to you this morning. i know that the first stages of this budgetary procedure – in particular the july conciliation – took place in a very positive atmosphere, and i hope we can build on this cooperation in the coming weeks. we still have some way to go in the 2010 budget procedures, and there are other important issues to agree on, such as the second phase of the european economic recovery plan, so it is crucial that all three institutions work closely together. turning to the actual situation following the council’s first reading and the establishment of the draft budget for 2010, the commission acknowledges that the cuts proposed by the council are less severe than in previous years. however, there are some particular concerns which i would like to highlight. the commission regrets the council’s cut of eur 1.8 billion in payment appropriations. these cuts are proportionately more significant for headings 1a and 4, and sent a negative message in the priority areas of growth in jobs and the eu’s international role, not least in relation to pre-accession assistance. the cuts proposed to the administrative support expenditure allowance, the administrative allowance for research and the agencies are particularly harsh. rather than taking into account the specific situation of each agency, the cuts – with few exceptions – have been general, regardless of the stage of development or tasks of the agency concerned. the cuts in administrative support expenditure will hamper the implementation of programmes, particularly in the field of research and for external actions. i am hopeful that, in preparing its first reading, parliament will seek to redress this situation. although the cuts in headings 1b and 2 are regrettable, i am partly reassured by the council’s proposed declaration on payments and by the second opportunity to examine the needs for agriculture in the upcoming letter of amendment which the commission will present at the end of october. as announced, the commission has now presented the budgetary authority with an amending letter to update the needs for heading 4. the key elements of this concern: an additional eur 95 million in commitment and eur 60 million in payment appropriations to support the palestinian authority and reconstruction efforts in gaza; and the need to consider the establishment of bananas accompanying measures in view of the possible trade agreement that will affect the preferential regime of acp banana-supplying countries. there is also an additional eur 50 million in commitment appropriations and eur 20 million in payment appropriations to assist developing countries in combating climate change, which should help to promote a successful outcome to the december copenhagen climate change conference. under heading 5 (administration) the commission was particularly modest in its pdb requests with a proposed increase in the commission’s administrative expenditure of only 0.9% compared to 2009. while this point has been acknowledged by the presidency, it is rather disappointing that the council has introduced further cuts to the commission’s administrative budget. in conclusion i am hopeful that the european parliament will restore the appropriations cut by the council and i am confident that our ongoing negotiations between the three institutions will be constructive and that we will achieve a satisfactory outcome to this budget procedure.
i would like to thank mr šemeta very much for presenting the commission's position and also for being on time, which is very important. i wanted to tell you that this is a preliminary discussion. we'll now be discussing it in the budget committee, in the other committees, and the main debate will be in a few weeks.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we have heard from both the commission and the european parliament that we are faced with a number of difficult issues to deal with in the autumn. i hope we are also faced with some easy questions. one of the most difficult issues of all will be the recovery plan and how it will be financed. at the same time, i am hopeful that we will succeed. i know we'll make it. there is no other option. another issue that we have to deal with, both in the short and long term, is of course climate issues and the financing of climate policy. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for allowing me to speak here today.
i'm closing the debate. i would like to congratulate commissioner šemec on his nomination. commissioner, when you're a commissioner from lithuania, you get a lot of promotions. we wish you every success in your work at the commission and in the future. your predecessor is today the head of the lithuanian state.
the next item is the council and commission statements on immigration, the role of frontex, and cooperation among member states.
we want to fight immigration. this is a big problem. meanwhile, our board and computer are failing. let's start doing what we can do effectively. of course, migration is one of the biggest problems facing europe today. moreover, it is a problem that not only affects us politicians, but also the societies of the member states of the european union. this is perhaps one of the main challenges facing the political class in europe at the moment and one of the main problems facing our electorate. immigration has many names, because today my esteemed colleagues were talking in a somewhat justified way about immigration from africa, which is concentrated in the mediterranean countries. i represent a country - poland - where this illegal immigration is of course smaller, but it comes to us from the countries of the former soviet union, partly from asia. we are faced with the question of the philosophy of the eu in combating illegal immigration, but also, let us be frank, in limiting legal immigration. should the eu agency frontex take on the burden of this fight? are you sure this is intentional? would it not be more effective, more efficient, to allocate the additional funds we want to give to frontex to the individual countries that have the biggest problem with illegal immigration, and also to those member states whose borders are the external borders of the european union? mr president, i think it would be more appropriate to conclude.
mr president of the european parliament! ministers, please! dear presidents and representatives of the european institutions! dear colleagues, and above all, dear friends! i stand before you today as the 13th directly elected speaker of this house. i am pleased to have with us the former presidents of this house: mr emilio colombo, mr enrique barón crespo, mr egon klepsch, mr klaus hänsch, mr josé maría gil-robles, mrs nicole fontaine, mr pat cox and mr hans-gert pöttering. (laughter) it's a great honor for all of us that you've come to us. as many of you have said, my election is also a symbol of the fulfilled dreams of the citizens of our part of europe about the unity of the continent. the european union is committed to the development of a common european defence policy and to the promotion of the european defence industry. i know and understand the concerns, needs and expectations of those who have recently joined the union. i know, because in my country they're similar. but now we are all taking responsibility for the future of our continent. there is no longer an old and a new europe. there is our europe! europe as a whole! we want it to be modern and strong. and to make sure our citizens see it. it takes energy and work. this is a goal worth striving for, because it is the dream of generations of europeans. i'm ready for this work and this effort, because these dreams were my dreams too. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. as we enter this term, europe and we ourselves - its representatives - are faced with many challenges. we have to face them. and we must remember that the european parliament has a special role to play in this quest for a better europe, not only institutional but also social - a deeply symbolic role. the european parliament is the heart of the european democratic system. it's the foundation of the sustainability and stability of this system, the guardian of the ideas and values that materialize not only in our decisions and their consequences, but in our debates. but the european parliament also has another task, and that is to create a vision of a new europe, a vision that goes beyond the present, beyond what is, to what should be. to create and co-create this vision, it takes imagination, knowledge, wisdom, and above all, courage. hannah arendt, a german philosopher of jewish origin, argued that politics is the only domain, next to religion, where miracles happen. we in europe saw this miracle exactly 20 years ago, and that's why we believe in the power of courage, imagination and wisdom. i think everyone in this room believes that. (laughter) i am optimistic about the challenges ahead. in my view, these are the following important challenges: first, the economic crisis and european solidarity; second, energy and the environment; third, foreign policy; fourth, human rights and the value system; fifth, our parliament and its reform. the most difficult and painful is the economic crisis. we have to beat him, and we will. europe has taken the lead, proposing solutions in the g8 and g20 -- solutions that, while preserving our social model, help the world to repair its economy. in the face of globalisation, europe must speak with one voice. it is now, in times of crisis, that we must take special care of growth and combat unemployment, revive the ideas of the lisbon strategy and find ways to invest in new technologies, innovation, education and human capital. the role of the community budget is important in ensuring that european research programmes have clear priorities and procedures. under the new treaty, parliament and the council will have the same budgetary powers. the codecision procedure will cover agriculture, fisheries, foreign trade, justice and home affairs, giving us equal powers also in the field of agricultural expenditure. we must guard against the temptation to protectionism and the renationalisation of common policy areas. cohesion policy must remain a priority in the next community budget if we are to achieve full integration of the re-united continent. the single market is our great achievement. we must defend and consolidate it if europe is to remain a competitive continent. this means strengthening, not weakening, european integration. have the courage to speak up for your beliefs. the community we are building cannot be animated, understood and lived without two elements: solidarity and social cohesion, because there is no true community without concern for all, especially the most vulnerable: the unemployed, the uneducated, those living far away in the provinces. the swedish presidency's main objective is to combat unemployment. we'll be vigorously assisting her in that. on the other side of the iron curtain, we once shouted in the streets: there is no freedom without solidarity. we can now say that without solidarity there is no community. nor will there be a modern, strong europe. (applause) we will not overcome the economic crisis without the powerful intellectual, economic, creative potential of women. the demographic crisis requires strengthening the family and childhood. we also need to ensure that women do not have to sacrifice their careers for family and child-rearing. (applause) to overcome the demographic crisis, and at the same time to continue democratic principles, we also need to be an open community. immigration has always been good for europe. we need to propose solutions that allow us to invite immigrants, create the conditions for integration, but also expect them to be open to integration themselves. we are facing an energy crisis. europeans may not understand geopolitics, but they do understand that their heating has been turned off. we must continue to diversify our energy sources by increasing investment in renewable energy and fossil fuels. nuclear energy remains at the disposal and decision of the member states. we need to expand the external pipeline network so that we are not dependent on any state. we need to increase the interconnections between our gas and electricity networks and consider the possibility of joint gas purchases, so that a genuine european energy solidarity market can be created. i think it is time for a real common energy policy for the union. i'll make sure of it. (laughter) similarly, the european coal and steel community, which was set up in 1951, was the seed of our community. robert schuman declared that 'the solidarity of production thus created would make all war . . . not only unthinkable but also practically impossible'. that was the original idea of this community. our energy policy must take account of the environmental risks associated with climate change. we need a green revolution and an ethic of self-restraint. the european parliament is holding a debate on this issue. i worked with many of my fellow mps on the temporary committee on climate change. you know my views and you know i'll work with you to compromise in copenhagen. we are a major player on the international stage. that's what our citizens expect from us. we need more europe not just within the eu but also in the world. a coherent, effective foreign policy, with a vision of global order, should be a major challenge for this parliament's current term. jean monnet once said that everyone has ambition. the only question is, is this ambition to be something or to do something? let's have ambition to do something in this term. what's the most important thing? first, an active policy towards europe's southern and eastern neighbours, the european union. to this end, work should be continued in the framework of the empa interparliamentary assembly and action taken in the framework of the euronest assembly. second, to promote democracy and good governance. we must use the interparliamentary assemblies and our delegations to organise parliamentary summits before the bilateral summits of the union. this is important because the european parliament will be involved in more policy decisions. eurolat is a good example of such cooperation. third, it is time for a genuine transatlantic parliamentary partnership and for the joint construction of a new framework for global governance. i will seek to strengthen ties with the united states congress at all levels. fourth, work on our strategic partnership with russia, not forgetting - as in our relations with china - that economic and political considerations cannot take precedence over human rights, the rule of law and democracy. (laughter) as president of this house, i will be fully engaged in dialogue with our russian partners. it is also part of the new strategy for the baltic sea. fifth, we should strengthen our relations with india and other emerging powers like brazil and south africa. india must be our partner in both the economic and political spheres. fifth, the middle east remains the key to global stability. europe must play an active role in this region. sixthly, enlargement is one of our most successful political strategies.could any of our european ancestors have enjoyed such lasting peace and prosperity as we do today? croatia, and perhaps iceland, seem to be the closest to future membership today. seventh, the union is the largest aid donor in the world. we need to take stock of our current and potential beneficiaries and remember to fulfil our obligations towards them in line with the millennium development goals. while closing the door to some newcomers, let us not close our hearts and do our best to bring life in their home countries closer to our european standards. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and the european union is committed to the peace process. they should be provided with a clear mandate and the necessary means of action. the european parliament wants to guarantee closer control and supervision of them. the extended budgetary powers that parliament will have under the lisbon treaty can improve our flexibility in allocating funds to the missions we support. implementation of the treaty must be our priority for the foreseeable future. i am committed to preparing parliament to function in accordance with the new rules on the date of entry into force of the treaty. but regardless of the treaty, we feel the need for change. we feel the need to introduce a more dynamic parliamentarism in our house. as president of parliament, i wish to build on the important work on parliamentary reform undertaken by my predecessors in recent years. but we have to keep moving. i will do everything i can to increase the space for creative political debate in our house. (laughter) i am a strong advocate of more frequent requests to leave the room. i shall be making these proposals after my presentation, because this is the way to give new life to the debate in the house. i consider this a particularly important guarantee of minority rights. the most important missing link in the reform process is the improvement of relations with the other eu institutions the european commission and the council. a significant part of my term will be devoted to this cause. as president, i will seek to develop a new model of partnership with the european commission, to strengthen parliamentary control of the executive and to increase the accountability of the executive to parliament, as the lisbon treaty directs us to do. in july i invited the president of the commission to participate in a question-and-answer session which would take place in parliament every month and during which questioners would be selected on the basis of submissions from the chamber. i suggest we start these debates as soon as possible. (laughter) two weeks ago, president barroso gave us his political guidelines for the second term. this is a significant innovation. it is the acceptance of the logic that the european parliament elects the president of the commission. i accept it with great pleasure. i also encouraged the parliamentary committees to review the legislation still outstanding and to examine whether the new commission intends to abandon, amend or maintain its legislative proposals. i also encourage committees to have a serious discussion about the future political strategy so that the interviews of commissioners-designate are also based on the legislative agenda and not just on the assessment of their cvs and previous professional experience. we need to strengthen our relationship with the council of ministers. to be credible, they must reflect the fact that in today's european union, the european parliament is the real legislator. we also need to work together on the institutional problems arising from the lisbon treaty. the commission is also proposing to extend the codecision procedure, a new comitology system, the appointment of a new high representative and vice-president of the commission, democratic control of the new external action service and the way in which the new 'double future' of the council presidency is dealt with in plenary sessions. our relations with the 27 national parliaments in the european union should develop in the same spirit. in recent years, we have seen an upward trend in our cooperation, and the lisbon treaty will further strengthen our contacts and enhance their role in creating citizen-friendly legislation. the stockholm programme on justice and citizens' security is a prime example of this cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments. i want to continue the change in the use of parliament's staff and expenditure towards direct involvement in programme activities. the wealth and strength of our house is also due to differences in nationality, mentality and language, and i would therefore like to stress that members should be able to speak in their mother tongue if they wish to do so, in order to represent their constituents properly. it must be kept in mind that the union is not just about the challenges of the future and visions of ever-increasing prosperity and stability. it's human rights first. i am concerned about the current tensions between slovakia and hungary over national minorities. it is always a big problem and i would like to declare here my support for resolving this dispute in accordance with the values we deeply believe in and with our convictions, the convictions of our parliament. (laughter) a good example of what we do is the sakharov prize, which has produced human rights leaders who are now the foundation of what i call the sakharov network, and which i intend to develop. i also want us to continue the idea of the house of european history, which was initiated by my predecessor here (still a member of the european parliament, which we are very pleased about). i would like to remind ourselves once again, here in this house, that the union is a community of ideals and values and that it is on this basis that we have built our agreements and our community. i am determined to ensure that all committees and delegations have access to satellite television and the internet. we need to look at the way the european elections are being conducted. for example, we should insist on the use of new technologies in elections to increase citizen participation. it is also time to start the debate on european political parties. citizens should know who they are voting for, not only in their own countries but also at european level. i attach great importance to cooperation with the conference of group chairs. we will be jointly and severally responsible for the actions of our house, together with the 14 vice-presidents, whom i thank for their declaration and for their cooperation. i appreciate the great partnership in substance in the chairs of our parliamentary committees. i would also like to see the chairs of the permanent interparliamentary delegations have the opportunity to have a significant influence on the union's foreign policy. we'll look after the budget of parliament with the quaestors. but above all, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to working with you, all the members of the european parliament. as president of the parliament, i am aware that i have a responsibility to create a good working environment for you. but i also urge you all to take up her cause. for most of us, the treaty of lisbon is the institutional solution we have been waiting for. it makes the union more effective in tackling current problems and brings the european institutions closer to the citizens. bronisław geremek, who is no longer with us and whose name we gave to the main square in the strasbourg parliament a few dozen metres away, liked to quote the famous saying that 'european integration is like riding a bicycle: you have to keep pedaling forward to keep your balance and control the direction you are going'. this is exactly how much we need the lisbon treaty to be ratified. (laughter) less than a week ago, i was in the polish parliament celebrating the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the first non-communist government in our part of europe, the government of tadeusz mazowiecki. it was a moving anniversary, for it marked the beginning of the rapid collapse of totalitarian systems in successive central european countries. it was the first breakthrough that allowed us to break down the wall that separated us. i am speaking today in strasbourg, the capital of a region whose fate is very similar to my own, silesia, a border region whose inhabitants have often had to change their citizenship, even though they have not changed their place of residence. i solemnly promise that as president of the european parliament for the next few years, i will be your ambassador, bringing to the citizens of europe and the world the message of a continent reunited. let us work together to find concrete and practical solutions to the great challenges facing europe and the world today. let's make it work. let's make our dreams come true. so let us approach it with enthusiasm, knowledge and courage. because this is our europe, a united, modern, strong europe. (the house gives the speaker a standing ovation)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it was a real pleasure, mr. chairman, to hear you today give the keynote address for the next two and a half years of our work. thank you very much for this speech. it shows your respect for us as members of the european parliament, regardless of which group we belong to, which country we come from and what views we represent. it was a very encouraging speech, because i think that our parliament really needs the kind of leadership that you have presented today. we don't agree on everything, and it's no secret that we have our differences, but that's where i'd like to start, by responding in some way to the voices that i've heard in this room today. it is not wrong that parliament is a place of debate and that people who may have different views on different issues, including different views on the future of europe, meet in parliament. the problem is that we try to confront our views in good faith with the views of others, and then there will always be room for compromise. if we assume, and i assume, that everyone in this house is of good will and wants what is best for our continent, then we can overcome our differences, then we will always be open to discussion. it takes a good will. but of course, mr president, our group, the group of european conservatives and reformists, a group which is proud to bring to this parliament a new dimension of political thinking about europe, will want to be a strong voice for those citizens who elected us, because we represent our constituents, without denying the democratic mandate of any of the members of the european parliament sitting here, and with a deep respect for that mandate. our voters, in choosing the parties that sit in the european conservatives and reformists group, knew who they were voting for. mr. chairman, your election was a historic moment. i would like to remind our colleagues that there is a group of young poles in this house today, invited by meps from different political groups, poles who were born on 4 june, the day of the first partially free elections in our country. meeting people born on june 4th sometimes makes you feel younger, because you can see that they are already adults, but i want to say that when i spoke to them today and realized that they got on a bus in rzeszów - a city in southeastern poland - and without borders came here to strasbourg, to their parliament, i think that none of us who remember june 4th could have imagined such happy events. today young poles, young czechs, estonians and lithuanians come here as if to their parliament. i am convinced, mr president, that you will stand guard over this parliament as a democratic institution, as a place of honest debate for people who genuinely want to help the citizens of the european union. and today, when we remember that you, mr president, also come from my country, a country which has suffered so much under totalitarianism, we know one thing: the european union - and this is really the best part of it - has provided the european peoples with 60 years without war. this is a great achievement of this body which we, european conservatives and reformists, as our name suggests, want to reform, but in which we also believe. we believe in a better europe and that is the europe we will serve in this parliament's term of office. (laughter) (applause)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? this is the first time that i have had the opportunity to stand before this house as president of the council and i would of course like to congratulate you very much, mr president, both on behalf of the swedish presidency and the whole council, and also personally. 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall, it's great to see you in this position. it's a victory for you personally, i know. it is a victory for the european parliament and it is also a victory for all of us who are passionate about european cooperation and all that it stands for. i would also like to thank you for the visionary speeches and the ambitious plans you have for this parliament. i am convinced that the european parliament is in your hands. under your leadership, i hope you will bring about not only concrete decisions but also the miracle you referred to. we in the council look forward to working with you and the european parliament. many members have spoken about all the challenges we face: the climate issue, the economic crisis, jobs, europe's role in the world, etc. you have an important role in the legislation here, in representing the citizens but also in the debate that is being held here. it is extremely important that the european parliament should always stand up for european values. if the lisbon treaty comes into force - which i very much hope - the role of the european parliament will be extended and you will have a greater say in the european agenda. i know that you will defend the role of the european parliament and the institution very seriously, but i hope that you will also be a bridge to other institutions and a serious partner in the dialogue. we, the presidency, look forward very much to being your interlocutors during these six years and wish you every success in your work.
i wanted to tell all the new members of the european parliament that the minister is a former member of the european parliament, one of our colleagues in this chamber.
mr. chairman, please! congratulations on your choice, congratulations on your performance. i'd like you to focus a little more attention than you did in your speech on the eastern european countries. the next few days will be a time of very difficult elections in ukraine. the european parliament has a special responsibility to ensure that democratic procedures are followed in this country. it was in the european parliament, the first institution of the european union, that the support for the great changes that took place five years ago began. i would ask that this issue, which is linked to the presidential elections in ukraine, be dealt with in a special, non-stereotypical way, with the participation of those institutions, those delegations, which are designated to ensure that the european parliament exists as a very serious institution, which is concerned with democratic procedures in ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! i also want to congratulate you very warmly, not only on your election, but also on your speech today, because you have proved that we have one europe, there are no old countries, there are no new countries. europe also remains diverse and what you have declared is a great and great value, that we will also function in this way in the european parliament. but that doesn't mean europe is equal. there are many differences which we should be addressing here in the european parliament. well, very often, european union citizens get paid very differently for the same work. the citizens of the european union today are largely, and still too largely, unemployed, and this is also the task we should be facing. there's too much diversity and inequality in access to goods related to education, culture, health care. this is a major challenge which the european parliament, under your presidency, should also take up. i would like to ask, in the context of what was discussed (the common energy policy), what do you think should be the fate of the more german-russian project today, i am thinking here of the gas pipeline, because you spoke about energy policy? and the question of enlargement of the european union: what about ukraine? how long do we give ourselves for ukraine to join the european union?
the chairman. - first of all, i would like to thank all the people who have spoken in the debate for their extraordinary support. i understand that we may have different opinions on certain issues. that's good, because that's how you always get something new. only the exchange of views, only the difference of views, only the discussion can give us answers to the most difficult questions. but the great support that was in the room when i spoke is also an added responsibility for me, because i understand that we face great challenges, and we have to overcome them all. i have been given a mandate by you, a mandate that is unique, powerful and at a unique time. i wanted to stress very strongly and say that i am aware of this and i am aware of my responsibility for the next two and a half years of action not only of the european parliament but of the whole union, and also for the image of our action in our citizens, which is extremely important. i would like to thank very much mr joseph daul, president of the ppe group. i am very happy to say that this is our europe. i feel that i am one of those people who came from central and eastern europe, but today our common europe requires common action. i don't forget where i came from, but time goes by fast. integration requires that we feel mutual responsibility and that this responsibility is also borne by the new member states, the so-called new ones, which, as i said, do not exist. president schulz stressed that this is a two-and-a-half-year programme. i might have. what i'm saying is, we need continuity. i was basically talking about what europe should be like in five or ten years, what direction we should take. in two and a half years, the new chairman will add new priorities, or modify them a little, but always keep in mind the longer term, maybe even 10, 15 years, so that we can anticipate events that may surprise us sometimes. and of course, i agree that the best expansion is the expansion that is the result of our internal integration. mr verhofstadt stressed the importance of the citizen's voice. i feel the same way. the citizen's voice is of great importance here. parliament represents the people, and that is why we have a great responsibility. he also stressed that the response to the crisis should be convergence, including in the economic field, joint decision-making, which is the opposite of protectionism, and i also stressed this in my speech. the president-in-office, rebecca harms, spoke about relations with national parliaments. it is very important that, in a situation where we are creating more than 50% of european law, including the laws approved by national parliaments, we should be as close as possible to the parliaments in our own countries. why would you do that? because we need more contact with the citizens. there is no doubt that those parliaments, our own national parliaments, have a much better contact. they're on our tvs every day, which isn't always the case in our parliament. let the citizens know how important what we are creating here in the european parliament, in the european commission, in the european council is. and that this accounts for more than half of the decisions affecting our countries. the fact that we are here today, very close to the national parliaments, will make it easier for us to communicate. the crisis is obviously a great lack of trust. that's what he was really counting on. we have the same view on climate. we were together with the president in bali, we were together in poznan and we will be together in copenhagen. we'll work out a deal. president kaminski stressed that we have different views on the future of europe, and i agree with him, and we really need to listen to each other. if you represent groups of citizens, which are now quite numerous and have a slightly different view of the future of europe, then this warns us of something, it informs us of something, and we, or i, who believe in the future of europe, in european integration, know much more about europeans because you raise all sorts of objections. on this issue, the president can be sure that the debate will be credible. mrs svensson spoke about the transparency of parliament, about the fact that we need to know what decisions we make, our voters need to know - i agree with that completely. i have no doubt that the issue of justice is also important. i come from a union that i was in for a really long time, and that was a normal union. but we know very well that to have the resources to help the poorest, we need to have a healthy economy and to constantly seek a balance between the two. president speroni spoke of proper, dignified cooperation with the european commission, with the european council. parliament is of course becoming more important, so please remember that. the lisbon treaty has given us much more powers than we have had before. that is good, because we are the representatives directly elected by the citizens of the union. mr. gollnisch does not doubt the sincerity of my intentions, but he wonders if they are real. i mean, 30 or 40 years ago, it was totally unrealistic for me to be standing here in front of such a large panel and answering questions from you. it was so unrealistic, i didn't even dare to dream about it. so you see, when you go in a direction with such deep faith and conviction, these impossible things become possible. let's make the impossible possible. (laughter) (applause) minister malmström yes, we are working with the swedish presidency, i have been to sweden. we talked about climate change, about the climate in europe, about the crisis, about unemployment. there is, of course, a very important programme in stockholm. let's remember that! the stockholm programme has a lot to do with parliament, and it also deals with organised crime on a global scale, not just in the european union. we will work with president barroso, there is no doubt about that. i like this offer very much. mr silvestris spoke of the brief history of the liberation of europe, and i fully share his opinion. mr. siwiec mentioned the ukraine. it's obvious to me, because i was in the eu delegation to ukraine. i've been to ukraine three times, as you recall, and i didn't want to go into it. for europeans, remember, every dimension of european cooperation is important: the mediterranean, latin america, the united states, but most important are our neighbours. our neighbors are around the mediterranean and in eastern europe. these are the main dimensions, eastern europe and southern europe, but let's not bid on what's more important. with the upcoming elections in ukraine, ukraine will definitely be the most important issue for the next six months. but let's not bid like this at all. it's very important that we maintain a balance. i fully share your opinion on this matter. mrs lichtenberger spoke about the role of parliament in making laws. i agree, i agree, we need to make this law transparent, we need to have our own opinion, but that is already de facto declared by lisbon. if the lisbon treaty comes into force, it will be automatic. mr balcho will ask whether there really is such a degree of unity in europe as i said in my speech. well, yes, it exists, it's the common one, but it still solves the problems of agriculture together. i told you firmly that he has his own funds for consistency. if we are united, let us not fall apart in another way, namely in the lack of a relationship between the possibilities for the development of citizens. and that's what we're going to try to do. some countries have been members of the european union for 20 or 30 years and they still participate in these programmes and we all have the same rights. it is a common europe, where we have different standards of living. we shall level them out, that is our hope and our opportunity, but let us speak of the community and also of our responsibility; i wanted to stress this very strongly. mrs roithová spoke of responsibility for the crisis in a solidarity-based way, and i agree with her. and we live so close together that we can communicate almost without borders now. this is particularly important to us. mr. tannock mentioned the commissioner of human rights. this is, of course, a matter for the president of the commission and the commission to decide, but i am convinced that we will meet mr tannock in ukraine in a few months' time when the presidential elections take place. mr sógor spoke of a european debate conducted bilaterally, so i wanted to say that it is indeed best to solve minority problems bilaterally. but it's also better to open up the boundaries than to move them. we learned in europe not to argue about borders, in our part of europe we don't have that problem. we just opened up the borders, and that's our goal, and that's the biggest achievement we've ever made. mrs. dodds said it was supposed to be a national effort, not a federal one. you spoke very wisely. we are talking about cooperation between nations, we are talking about the need to preserve identity, but also the need for mutual openness, cooperation. i very much like your ideas and the european union in its present form and in the form of the lisbon treaty is precisely what is being implemented. mr tabajdi said that the regions, including my region of silesia, are a kind of intermediary. i agree with you. if there are border regions, they provide opportunities for better communication. mr. antinoro spoke of the achievements of my country, thank you very much. do i breathe power into the european parliament? i have a lot of energy in that direction, but it certainly takes the energy of over 700 deputies. and i absolutely count on it, i understand that we are all "energetic". mr. ransdorf really represents the people and the life of the nation. i agree that this is why the responsibilities and powers of the european parliament are growing. let us also allow national parliaments to have a strong influence on what happens in europe. mr. theurer was talking about the pursuit of freedom on the one hand and attractiveness on the other. yes, it was attractive here, and we were looking for freedom there. it's true, you know! ladies and gentlemen, we have calmed the situation in the balkans, the balkans are calm today. praise the lord. the countries of this region have been lining up to join the european union, and this is a great attraction of the union. mrs. morvai mentioned some dramatic events. if you have any information you'd like to share, please do so in writing. we can also meet to get information on this case. mr tőkés spoke of 1956 in hungary, and we all remember those events and the deep faith in the union. yes, i too believe deeply in the power of the european union. mr olejniczak, on the other hand, asked a series of questions about unequal europe. we must absolutely talk about unity, but all the funds are working, what i said earlier, all the measures that are supposed to give us a chance of equalization are in force, nothing has changed here. the situation is as open and obvious as ever, so it is very good that we have a common europe. the answer to the question of gas supplies, oil supplies and energy in general is to talk about a common energy policy. then there will be no unnecessary tensions between us, because they build unnecessary walls between us, which we have been breaking down for decades, and that is the future. that is why i am strongly proposing a common energy policy. of course, to join the european union, you have to meet certain criteria. it was also said that to join the union, we must be well integrated in the union, and then the admission of new members will be effective. we need time to integrate, but a country like croatia is prepared to integrate to a large extent. i understand that this country has a great opportunity to join the union quite quickly, although it is facing some problems. and it may be the case with iceland, but it's very difficult to give a time frame to other countries that are less prepared. remember that in the central and eastern european countries that are in the union, we have been preparing for integration since 1991/1992, it took 12 years. we have been preparing for integration for 12 years, and in fact we have had better conditions than the countries have now, because the world situation was better: there was no crisis, many other aspects made us better off. it is a long process and i would not dare give a timeframe, but let us remember that enlargement is good eu policy, albeit in the long term. i would like to thank you again for the discussion, i have written down all the comments very carefully and they will also serve as a basis for thinking about some modifications. we'll see each other every day. i'll also be sitting where i am right now because i want to be as close to each and every one of you as possible. (laughter) (applause)
in writing. i congratulate you on your election as president of the european parliament. like our countrymen, i am proud that a pole has been elected to this position for the first time in history. it is a proof of our role and our place in europe. at the same time, poland is one of the last countries to have not completed the ratification procedure of the lisbon treaty, which improves the effectiveness of european integration. it seems paradoxical to me. i would remind you that the polish parliament gave its consent to ratification of the lisbon treaty in april this year, but the ratification documents still have not been signed by the president. i think you could make a valuable contribution to the public debate in poland and to increasing public support for the treaty, which could speed up the completion of the ratification procedure. at the same time, i would like to thank you for your personal commitment to this cause in ireland. i very much hope that on 2 october the irish will vote 'yes' and that the czech republic and poland will follow suit. contributing to the completion of the process of ratification of the lisbon treaty is one of the parliament's main objectives and i hope that it will also be a success.
in writing. this is a key moment in the history of an integrated europe. i thank the president for the programme you have presented. i hope we can achieve these ambitious goals. i wish you the best in your efforts to guide the work of the european parliament in accordance with the values which are important to all europeans. just as solidarity has changed the face of poland and other central european countries, european solidarity can help us meet the challenges we face today. it will be possible under certain conditions. and that is that solidarity will be consistent, genuine, determined to change reality. just as in poland totalitarianism was defeated not just by words but by action, european solidarity will be effective if it is translated into concrete action. i believe that's what's going to happen. this vision of the european future is attractive to many europeans. i hope that the european parliament, under the chairmanship of your president, will play a positive and active role in the realisation of this vision. thank you very much. thank you.
the next item is the statement by the president-designate of the commission.
president-designate of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in unprecedented times. i am personally convinced that in the history books of the future, we will be talking about one before the financial crisis and one after. this crisis is not just financial, economic and social. it's also a crisis of values. that is why i think we must put at the heart of our response to this crisis our european model of society, our social market economy. at the same time, the crisis has shown how interdependent we have all become in this globalisation. there is the financial crisis, but also the energy crisis. there are food security issues and climate change, where europe is now leading the way. that is why i believe that we can say that this is the moment of truth for europe. do we want to shape globalization with our values, by standing up for our interests, or do we want to suffer globalization, by following the initiative of others? the choice is clear to me. we must rise to this challenge together because if we do not do so together, europe risks being marginalized. we have experience. i believe that there is no other region in the world which has had the same experience as we have in establishing an internal market, common rules, common institutions, even a single currency and policies of solidarity and cohesion. we have this unique experience. so i believe that instead of suffering globalization, we can shape it, because we are naturally a laboratory of globalization, we are champions of global governance. this is not the time for the status quo, nor for routine. we need to have an agenda for transformation. we need a strong europe more than ever. with the lisbon treaty, we will be stronger tomorrow, we will have more capacity to act. when i say a stronger europe, let us be clear! this does not necessarily mean more centralisation of power. i am committed to the democratic principle of subsidiarity, which is of course linked to solidarity, while taking decisions at the most appropriate level. when i speak of a stronger europe, i am also speaking of the european spirit, the european decision-making culture, the community method and the will to act together - not only the capacity to act but also the will to act, the political will. we need a europe which defends its values and interests with uncompromising determination, which rejects all protectionism but is not naive and which is able to show that spirit of voluntarism. it is this spirit of voluntary service that has guided the drafting of the document which i sent to all of you before this meeting. the mandate of the commission which i now chair was the first commission of the enlarged europe, of the greater europe of 27. i believe that now that we have consolidated this europe, we have the conditions for a new ambition: a new social ambition, because there is a crisis and unemployment is the first problem of europeans; a new ambition in the fight against climate change, where we already play a leading role; and a new ambition in the response to globalisation. last week i had the opportunity to discuss these political guidelines with all the political groups that invited me. i think it was a very useful, constructive and open discussion. i received many points of view. i believe that the time has now come for us to reach a broad consensus and to reach some level of agreement on the way forward. before you all today i pledge that if i am confirmed by this parliament i will apply those political guidelines during my second term and i will, together with incoming commissioners, translate them into the next commission's legislative and work programme. i am not going to repeat those guidelines now but i think, after discussions with all of you, it will be useful to make some of the elements in the guidelines more concrete and also to take on board a number of your suggestions. in the interests of transparency, i would like to highlight those areas with all of you now. first of all, the basic line: as we fully implement our recovery plan in order to move out of this economic and financial crisis, we must keep an eye on the future. we must reinvigorate our inclusive social market economy. we will invest in new sources of sustainable growth, in smart green growth, in the networks of the future from digital infrastructure to the european super grids for electricity and gas all this to promote high levels of employment and social provision and to reinforce the european model of society, while succeeding in an increasingly competitive world. solidarity must remain key. that is why, apart from all the decisions already taken and proposed in terms of structural funds and in terms of doubling our balance of payments support for some countries in difficulty, i want to commit myself to using all the instruments at my disposal to help those member states with serious budgetary constraints - namely the new member states - back onto the road to recovery. but we cannot return to the previous growth model. it has clearly proved unsustainable. we have to create the conditions where the transition to a low-carbon economy is a source of competitive advantage for our businesses, a source of jobs for our workers and a source of hope for future generations. yes, i agree with those of you who said that coordination is not enough. yes, we need to map out a genuine european agenda. yes, we need an integrated vision for a coherent european strategy, a european union 2020 strategy that builds on open markets by combining new sources of sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion, our climate and energy security agenda, a fresh approach to industrial policy and a move to a knowledge society. i stand for a particular emphasis on innovation and support measures for smes. yes, this means overhauling the lisbon strategy after 2010. yes, we need a much more integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental strands of the different strategies. as president of the commission, i commit myself to doing my best to convince member states also to accept this coherence and coordination approach. i said in the guidelines that the economy needs a financial system that is more ethical, robust and responsible. regulation and supervision have not kept pace with the integration and innovation of financial markets not in europe; not at global level. let me say that i have been shocked by the scale of unethical behavior that we have seen. we cannot allow a return to 'business as usual'. the issue of bonuses, for example, requires urgent action. we are now in a leading position in the g20 - a process which, by the way, was started in europe - but it is true that more needs to be done. next week, on the eve of the g20 meeting in pittsburgh, the commission will adopt proposals to build a true european system of supervision - a system that reflects the integrated nature of our single market. a review of our action in three years will provide an opportunity to see what further action is needed. it is crucial that we get regulation that ensures the responsibility and the legitimacy of the financial sector without stifling innovation. i want europe to keep its world leadership in financial services. in my guidelines i also explained why the crisis calls for a much stronger focus on the social dimension in europe at all levels of decision-making in europe, but also at national level. the financial sector and the economy may be showing signs of recovery but let's be clear the crisis is not over for those who have lost their jobs and we cannot say the crisis is over before we come back to the creation of employment instead of rising unemployment. i would like to make my commitment to a high level of employment and social cohesion through a number of actions that i have discussed with some of you. i have clearly stated my attachment to the respect of fundamental social rights and to the principle of the movement of workers. the interpretation and the implementation of the posted workers directive fall short in both respects. that is why i am committed to proposing, as soon as possible, a regulation to resolve the problems that have arisen. this regulation will be co-decided by the european parliament and the council. a regulation has the advantage of giving much more legal certainty than the revision of the directive itself, which would still leave too much room for divergent national transpositions and take longer to produce real effects on the ground. but if we discover during the preparation of the regulation that there are areas where we need to revise the directive itself, i will not hesitate to do so. let me be clear i am committed to fighting social dumping in europe whatever form it takes. the issue of social impact assessments for all future proposals was also raised and i agree that this is needed. the first test case for such a social impact assessment should be the revision of the working time directive. on the basis of this impact assessment, the next commission will consult social partners and will come with a comprehensive legislative proposal. in the guidelines, i emphasize the importance of services of general interest for our european model of society. the lisbon treaty makes this point very clear and i am ready to work with you to develop a quality framework for services of general interest. i also highlighted gender equality and the need to eliminate the gender pay gap, so i now commit myself to working with you on a women's charter, also as a way of commemorating the 15th anniversary of the beijing conference in 2010. in my guidelines i express my determination to make the lisbon treaty innovations in international relations, including the european external action service and the post of high representative and vice-president of the commission, work effectively. i believe it is one of the greatest innovations of our lisbon treaty and i am committed to reinforcing cooperation with the european parliament in the field of external affairs in general. but europe needs the means to match its ambitions. as i said in the guidelines, this requires a root-and-branch reform of the european union budget covering the expenditure and revenue side. we need to move away from a narrow focus on net balances and move towards an approach based on solidarity, burden-sharing and equity. the european union must have a more transparent and efficient way of financing its policies and i am ready i hope with the support of this parliament to take this battle to the member states as we reshape the union's budget. i also want to work more closely with the european investment bank to look at innovative forms of financing. i am also committed to smart regulation, and i want to reiterate that simplification of procedures and the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses, particularly smes, will remain a priority in the next commission. this task just like the impact assessment board and ex post evaluation will be placed directly under my authority to fully reflect the priority i give it to it. i will also defend - as we have done over the years and sometimes in difficult circumstances - the integrity of the single market because, without a single market and without a cohesion policy, we will never have a european union. but why stop there? why only defend the internal market? i want to complete the missing links to unleash its full benefits for businesses and consumers. the commission has already taken a number of decisions. i am committed to translating these priorities into the organization of the next college once i have been confirmed by you. but i can already share with you today some organizational changes that i intend to introduce. i will create the post of commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and civil liberties, including citizens' and minority rights as a reflection that the european union is a community of rights and values. i will also create the post of commissioner for internal affairs and migration, including security. one of the key tasks of this commissioner will be to develop a truly common approach to migration: promoting the integration of legal migrants, fighting illegal migration and related criminal activities, and ensuring solidarity between member states. we need solidarity. we need solidarity when we have to give support to our baltic friends or countries affected by the gas crisis between russia and ukraine, but we also need solidarity when we have to give support to our mediterranean friends when they are facing challenges with which they cannot cope alone. i will also create the post of commissioner for climate action to reflect the fact that climate change is a challenge that needs to be addressed across the whole range of our policies. a dedicated commissioner for climate action will also send an important signal that, regardless of the level of ambition that comes out of copenhagen, europe is serious about maintaining momentum for action. we also need a fundamental review of the way the european institutions access and use scientific advice. in the next commission i want to create the post of chief scientific adviser, with the power to deliver proactive, scientific advice throughout all stages of policy development and delivery. this will reflect the central priority i attach to research and innovation. i think we have a lot to do in this field. if there is one area where the fragmented efforts in europe are not giving the result we want, it is precisely in the field of research and innovation. i believe that, from fighting climate change to energy security, the potential is there if we want to work together in research and innovation for europe. what i propose is no less than a transformational agenda for europe. in order to realise this ambition, i have suggested a special partnership between parliament and the commission. we represent the two european institutions par excellence and this gives us a special responsibility to create a true european public space for debate. i am committed to making my contribution to european parliamentary democracy. i've had the opportunity to discuss this over the last couple of months with president buzek, which led to many of the improvements proposed in my guidelines, like a regular question time. following my meetings with the groups, i am ready to take up the suggestion made by some of you, not only to meet your conference of presidents on a more regular basis, but also to establish an appropriate dialogue with your conference of committee chairs. very concretely, i will invite the conference of committee chairs to meet the whole college of commissioners every year before the adoption of the commission's legislative and work programme. we are indeed living in very exceptional times, times of uncertainty and power shifts. there may be a fundamental change in the relations between the most important powers in the world and there is indeed a great risk in these times of anxiety of the emergence of national egoisms, of naked nationalism, of ugly nationalism and some forms of extremism. there is a real danger that our achievements in european integration are called into question. that is why i believe it is important to have this special relationship between commission and parliament to fight those national egoisms. let me finish with a plea to each and every one of you. now, more than ever, we need a strong europe and a strong european commission a strong commission, let us be frank, has to be a political commission but a political commission must not be a partisan commission. as president of the commission, my party is europe. the next college, like the current one, will contain a significant number of members from a variety of political families. i am committed to having europe's political diversity reflected in the college and in the most important positions. but only with this cross-party support can we in fact have a strong europe and a strong commission. we need a commission that delivers on its promises. we also need a parliament capable of mobilising the effective majorities necessary for a europe of action. if you want a strong commission that sometimes stands up to member states and to national egoisms, you should give the commission the strong support it needs. we all have our different political, ideological positions and we come from very different political families but i believe that, in times like the ones we are living in, in times of crisis, apart from our convictions we also need a strong ethic of european responsibility. it is to this ethic of european responsibility to each of you that i make my appeal my appeal with passion for europe. let us embark on this european journey together. (sustained applause)
i'd like to inform you that we have a new processing rule. maybe not everyone has heard of it yet. this rule says that if during a speech, someone in the audience raises a blue card, they can ask the person who is speaking a question. the question cannot exceed 30 seconds and the person who is speaking must agree to the question being asked. this is a new rule we haven't had before. it's about keeping our discussions alive.
i would like to tell you that there is only one question in the speech, otherwise we might not finish the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. perhaps mr cohn-bendit is talking too long, perhaps i almost don't agree with him, but he always speaks interestingly, and that is what matters in parliament. this gives the parliament the vitality you spoke of, mr president, in your speech at the beginning of today's debate. the group of european conservatives and reformists will support the vote of president barroso. we're not doing this because we agree with the president on everything. unfortunately, there are many issues that we do not share, and i will mention at the outset the president's enthusiastic support for the lisbon treaty. we do not share this enthusiastic support. but we share the distaste and condemnation expressed in your speech today for all forms of national egoism and nationalism. yes, for europe, our continent, where we want it to be and continue to live in peace, national egotism and chauvinism have brought a sea of misery. thank god we live in a peaceful europe today. we disagree with some of the points that president barroso has made. we have that right and we will defend that right, although some people are still questioning the simple fact that voters in europe are electing european conservatives and reformers, and i promise you that they will elect more of them. we'll be here, and our voice will be heard here. therefore, we have the right to say on behalf of our constituents that we support the president in his difficult mission. i am glad that the words of european solidarity have been heard here today. i am glad to hear that this commission, the new commission under the presidency of mr president, will be directing its efforts towards overcoming the economic crisis. this is extremely important and we are pleased that this ambitious programme which you, the president, are presenting seems to be really directed at those key areas where our action is needed. this, however, shows how much cooperation between nations is needed in europe today. this crisis affects everyone, regardless of structure and economy, regardless of which region of europe our countries are in. the crisis affects all of us and we all have to deal with it. mr president, in giving you our support on behalf of our group, i would like to appeal to you to ensure that in the coming months europe does not remain indifferent to what is happening in world politics. i'm not hiding that in my opinion one of the most important tests for the western world that we have to face is what's happening in iran today. iran is a country that does not hide its nuclear ambitions. the president of this country not only denies the terrible crime of the holocaust, but he threatens israel with destruction today. it seems to me that this kind of behavior should have no place and should not be accepted in the modern democratic world. our group expects the european commission, led by you, to oppose firmly the undemocratic procedures and the undemocratic policies of the current iranian authorities, which are directed against our greatest ally in the middle east, the state of israel. we also expect - and i am glad to hear it always clearly in your speeches, mr president - that the european union will always be the standard-bearer for civil liberties and the promotion of our common european values beyond our borders. in this difficult task you are undertaking, in which you certainly made mistakes in the previous term of office, but no politician is immune from making mistakes; that is unfortunately the reality on this earth. we hope that in this policy, mr president, you will hold high the banner of european values and that you will work for a common and solidary europe, which i would like to emphasise.
acting president of the council. - thank you, mr president. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for the opportunity to say a few words in this debate. i must say that it is good to be back in the european parliament. the discussion and the comments here are undeniably more dynamic and entertaining than at home in sweden. i would like to congratulate josé manuel barroso for having so clearly stated the role he wants the commission to play and for his reform agenda for the next five years. i have also listened very carefully and attentively to what the group chairmen have said. there is, of course, a great deal to comment on, but i shall not do so today, because this is not the council debate. it is parliament's debate with the proposed president of the commission. as i said, it is not my place to comment on what has been said, but i have listened very carefully to the debate. i just want to say two things. the first is the obvious: josé manuel barroso was unanimously nominated by 27 heads of state or government of different political affiliations. he has our clear support to lead the commission for another term. this does not, of course, diminish the parliament's duty to scrutinise him and to decide whether to approve or not. the second is also obvious, but it can be repeated: we live in a very uncertain time with great and difficult challenges. we need a strong and active europe, where the european institutions can work and cooperate. we need certainty, clarity and stability so that we can together tackle the issues where our citizens expect results; where they expect europe to deliver.
president-designate of the commission. − mr president, first of all let us address some issues of policy substance. the commission does not and has never advocated the privatisation of public services. we believe public services are an important part of our european model of society. what we believe is important is that those public services work in the framework of a strong single market with respect of community rules. this is very important. if we want to have a real european union, we have to have this internal market respected. let us be frank about it: sometimes some national politicians, when there is a problem, say it is the fault of brussels and when they have success, say it is their merit. so please let us not embark on those accusations that it is because of brussels that there is privatisation. these are national decisions. we have amongst our member states some countries with some public services that they have decided to privatise but this is not an imposition of brussels. i think that the usual exercise of brussels-bashing goes too far sometimes. everyone should assume their responsibilities. the second point is about posting of workers. the principles of the directive are indeed those that have been mentioned, namely by the socialist group: the respect for fundamental rights of workers; i said it very often. for us these are sacred rights: the right to strike; the right of association. fundamental rights are something very important. i come from a country where there was a time when there were no civil rights or social rights, so i know what it means to have access to those social rights. at the same time we are committed to the freedom of circulation in europe. without that freedom of circulation we are not going to have a europe. so let us try to reconcile both principles in a way. let us not give into interpretations of the european court of justice. that is why i proposed here a way forward inspired by many of your suggestions and i am ready to work in loyalty with all the members of this parliament to achieve it so that we have a stronger europe, keeping our internal market but respecting fully the social rights of our workers. on regulation and deregulation, let me make the point very clear, and i ask you, mr cohn-bendit, find a statement where i advocate deregulation. i have always said ‘better regulation’ or ‘smart regulation’. it is not my fault if in french it is translated as ‘deregulation’. better legislation: mieux légiférer, not moins légiférer. et, mon cher monsieur cohn-bendit, je veux vous dire une chose. vous avez une obsession avec moi. moi, je n'ai pas d'obsession avec vous. au contraire, j'ai presque de la sympathie parce que vous me rappelez mon adolescence ...(applaudissements) il y a une chose politique qui est très importante. on peut me critiquer sur beaucoup de choses, et je suis le premier à reconnaître qu'il y a des questions sur lesquelles moi-même et la commission pouvons être critiqués. cependant, prenez notre engagement en matière de changement climatique: tout le monde reconnaît que nous avons le leadership dans le monde. j'ai reçu les compliments, pour la commission, du président obama, du secrétaire général des nations unies, du prix nobel, m. pachauri, qui m'a écrit une lettre émouvante. je serai le premier prêt à partager avec vous ce succès pour l'europe, parce que le mouvement des verts a contribué à l'agenda pour une croissance verte. attention! je suis pour la croissance verte, je ne suis pas pour la décroissance de l'europe. c'est important. je suis pour une croissance verte, une croissance viable, mais je ne suis pas pour désindustrialiser l'europe. je ne suis pas pour faire disparaître nos emplois de l'europe. or, c'est la commission qui a fait le plus pour le changement climatique, c'est précisément la commission que m. cohn-bendit a désignée, dès le début, comme le bouc émissaire. même avant que je présente les lignes directrices, même avant que je me présente devant votre groupe, vous avez dit "non". vous avez même fait des t-shirts. ils n'ont pas connu un grand succès de vente, les t-shirts "stop barroso". vous parlez d'hallucinations, monsieur cohn-bendit. écoutez! un parti a proposé un candidat avant les élections. moi-même, j'ai écouté vos propositions. vous avez proposé un conservateur anglais, m. patten. vous avez même, je crois, présenté comme candidat le premier ministre français, ce qui montre ... ah non, vous n'avez pas, parce que je pensais que ce serait encore un service comme celui que vous avez rendu à m. sarkozy, en divisant la gauche en france. mon cher monsieur cohn-bendit, la vérité est la suivante: si nous voulons avoir une europe plus proche des citoyens, nous devons faire nos choix sur la base des politiques. je voudrais bien que les forces qui sont pour l'europe soutiennent un programme pro-européen. je vous ai présenté un programme très pro-européen. c'est à vous de voter pour moi. ce n'est pas moi qui vais choisir qui doit appuyer. c'est vous qui devez voter. j'ai un programme pro-européen, lié au traité de lisbonne. il se peut que ce ne sera pas la meilleure nouvelle pour tous, mais, moi, j'y crois. je vous propose maintenant une nouvelle ambition pour l'europe. en effet, ces cinq années ont été les années de la consolidation de l'europe élargie. je ne dois pas m'excuser d'avoir le soutien des 27 chefs d'état et de gouvernement, qui ont été démocratiquement élus et sont de toutes les tendances politiques, bien sûr, parce que je crois que mon rôle était essentiellement de rassembler. c'est la première fois que nous avons eu cette europe élargie. je ne dois pas m'excuser d'avoir travaillé avec ces chefs d'état et de gouvernement dans la loyauté. il va de soi qu'un président de la commission réélu aura une autorité accrue. je vous demande de donner un soutien fort à une commission pour plus d'ambition, pour aller de l'avant, avec plus de force, pour un projet européen de solidarité et de liberté. je vous propose une coopération loyale. certains se sont exclus. dommage! moi, je vais rester attaché à mes valeurs, même aux valeurs que vous défendez parfois. (applaudissements)(m. cohn-bendit lève un carton bleu)
i must explain. mr cohn-bendit is holding up a blue card, but we discovered half an hour ago that the rule in question applies only to speakers who are members of the european parliament and not to speakers from outside parliament, such as speakers from the commission. maybe we should change this in future, but for now we must observe the rules.
mr president, let me start by saying that we support president barroso’s european ambition and his programme, and i say that on behalf of 28 polish meps, if not more. there is one thing in this programme, however, which is especially close to our hearts, and that is energy security. you know, president barroso, that this house is very much attached to this issue. we need to revisit and reassess both the progress and the deficiencies in this process and to set priorities for the coming months and years. the present situation is not satisfactory, but rather grey, because, in spite of all the declarations and apparent goodwill, the progress made in terms of energy infrastructure and crisis mechanisms is far from sufficient. the measures taken are not fulfilling all expectations and are still not satisfactory. we obviously welcome the short-term measures set by the commission and presidency, but we expect a long-term vision and determination from the commission president and, if necessary, for the president of the commission to face or challenge the inertia and egoism of the member states. we need a strong commission and strong leadership from you because we need the commission to act on behalf of the whole union and in the interests of the union’s citizens. let me emphasise that such leadership should be based on a consensus that you have to lead and build in the parliament and commission as well as in the member states. as you know, this idea was launched here in parliament three years ago, but there is still a long way to go and we still have to wait for this dream to come true. i hope that by the end of this legislature, president barroso, you will make this miracle happen and that you will be given the chance to do so. in this expectation, we support your candidature and keep our fingers crossed for your presidency.
mr. chairman, please! europe is one. this is a europe of peace, freedom and democracy. we respect human rights and we want to implement a social market economy programme - a programme that puts people at the centre of our concerns. but europe is different. we have a number of very poor regions, so we need a real cohesion policy. the common agricultural policy effectively sanctions two europeans: the old and the new. this requires change and the creation of a true, united, solidarity-based, cohesive europe. you, mr. president, know better than anyone. what action will you take to change this situation?
president of the commission. - madam president, first of all a point of order. i would like to say, particularly to the non-attached members, that i did not go to their group because they did not invite me. it's very simple. of course, i have strong differences with some of these members and also with others, but i have gone to all the groups that have invited me, all the groups that have been regularly constituted. i went there for a democratic debate. i like the democratic debate. we need to be clear about this. i'll try to answer a lot of questions quickly. i can see that sometimes the members are not here to listen to me, but i will make an effort anyway. first, the question of the bonuses, the last question. i would draw your attention to the fact that at the end of 2004 the commission - my commission - made a recommendation on excessive remuneration, not only in banks but also in the economic system in general. unfortunately, at that time, no one paid attention to our recommendation. i am glad that the issue of bonuses and excessive pay is now a greater priority and i hope that we can find a solution, based on the proposals we have put on the council's table. they are on the table: a recommendation but also a binding part of the directive on the capital of banks. many of the questions were on energy security, from mr saryusz-wolski, mr marinescu and others. this was indeed one of the main priorities of this house, and i intend to include it among the priorities of the next commission too, if i have the assent of your parliament, because it is the commission that europeans look to, not just the europeans of the union. at the time of the russia-ukraine problem, president putin decided to call me, precisely to inform me of this problem, and you know how much time and energy we have spent in the commission, with other partners, trying to find a solution to a problem that concerned russia and ukraine, but which had consequences for european consumers. i'm personally very attached to these files. that is why we have launched the interconnection programme in the baltic states, and why the commission has unblocked the nabucco problem, which was completely blocked, let us be clear. i therefore include these issues among the commission's top priorities, but there is indeed resistance to the implementation of a genuine internal energy market. i hope that during the next term of office, with your support, we will overcome these remaining obstacles, let us be frank and sincere, and establish a genuine integrated energy market in europe. you can count on me in the commission to defend the european interest uncompromisingly. i believe that this issue of energy security is also essential for the fight against climate change. i say again, especially to the greens: we can always be more ambitious, but frankly, i think we should be pleased that the european union, on the basis of a commission proposal, is at the forefront of the fight against climate change. it is obvious that we would not have had the agreement of all the member states afterwards if it had not been for the work, and i would like to say this, of the presidency of mrs merkel, and then of mr sarkozy, because they also worked for this, and it is right to recognise this. all the member states have made an effort, but it was on the basis of an ambitious proposal from the commission that we were able to fight against global warming and i am counting heavily on you to keep europe at the forefront of this fight. i have already given a reply on social questions: i have already given very concrete commitments on the questions of the posting of workers, on the problems of public services. i will be ready to work with you on the principles i have mentioned and have made very clear today: against social dumping, for the social market economy. i know that this is an interesting ideological debate, but i believe that we have the answer in europe. we need an internal market, which is our strength, and at the same time a high level of social cohesion. this is european creation, this is contribution. in the quotation i quoted at the beginning of my paper, i quoted a great contemporary european historian, mr tony judt, who teaches at new york university. he said, "maybe the united states will have the strongest military in the world, maybe china will sell cheaper products, but only europe has a model that can serve as an inspiration to the rest of the world". the 21st century may well be the century of europe. i believe that. i believe we can lead this globalization not with force, but with inspiration. we have a social market economy which is not owned by the christian democrats, the social democrats or the liberals. it was created by europe, especially after the second world war: not only the process of european integration, but also this social market economy which aims to combine free markets, open markets. europe is the world's largest exporting power. we europeans must therefore reject protectionism and at the same time promote the european model of social dialogue, the european model of social security. when i hear some "declinologists", "crisophiles" say that now it is the americans, the chinese, who are running everything, i say to them: what is president obama doing anyway? president obama is trying to -- i wish him luck -- to introduce a national health care system that we have pretty much everywhere in europe, with differences. it is the americans who are taking inspiration from the european model. what are the chinese doing? they're also, to support demand, thinking about starting a social security system, and i think they'll have it, because there's going to be a rise in wealth in this country, and this rise in wealth in china is good for the whole world. what are the united states and other great powers doing now? they're starting to talk to us about fighting climate change. i remember well, when we spoke to them before, the americans refused from the outset any kind of commitment in terms of objectives in this struggle. you see, i cannot be as pessimistic as some of the voices that have been heard here today. we have problems in europe, of course, problems of coherence. in terms of political will, we need to work more to achieve a higher level of coherence. we also have a very clear social problem, which is the most serious: the rise in unemployment. but let us be clear: it is not europe, it is not the european commission that created this financial crisis. you all know where this crisis came from. we responded immediately. we have responded with concrete proposals. i was with the french president when he was the french president in the united states, with the american president, proposing to him to launch this g20 process. it was europe that was at the forefront of this response. i said at camp david, as much as open societies need the rule of law, the rule of law, so markets need rules to be legitimate, to be credible, to be ethical. that is the european position. i do think we should be proud of the proposals we have made. they're on the table. i hope they will be approved, and we shall see as we go along whether we need to make an extra effort. i think the commission's record on the environment is well known. someone said that biodiversity is not there. read my document again, and you'll see it's there. in fact, one member of this house has welcomed our measures to protect bluefin tuna, for which i thank him. i think we have a good record here. as regards the question by mrs beňová on fundamental rights, it is precisely to give this new sign of commitment that i decided to create - and the proposal came from the european parliament, even though i was already convinced - a post of commissioner for fundamental rights and individual freedoms, who will also deal with the minority issue, of course, and he or she will be able to answer the committee on petitions, which has been mentioned here. i believe that, as in national systems, where there is normally a minister for justice and a minister for the interior, we must have a commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and freedoms. there will be another who will also look at this because we also have to be serious about this, we also have to see that there are problems of insecurity in europe and that there are things we can do together with the added value of europe. other issues, but always with the same spirit: the spirit of security in full respect of individual freedoms, in full respect of fundamental rights. there it is again, europe. someone said something about guantanamo. i was one of the first, if not the first, political official in office in any government to ask the american president - it was during the austrian presidency - to close guantánamo. i have said this publicly because i believe that we europeans are against a fight against terrorism which does not respect fundamental rights, because that is where moral authority is lost. on the subject of fundamental rights, i think we may have some disagreements, but there will be no fundamental disagreements with some of the members who have raised this question. i myself, in this matter, do not need to receive instruction from a human being. at the age of 16, i was already on the streets of my country fighting against a dictatorship, against the colonial system. so i don't need to be lectured by anyone about adherence to fundamental rights. anyway, thank you. on the question of northern ireland, i thank the honourable member: it is true that we have made a great effort, discreetly, for northern ireland. we set up a special working group and, at that time, when there was no dialogue between the parties, we helped to bring about this reconciliation. as regards the question of mr lópez aguilar, yes, i think we must now have a new social ambition. it's obvious. we have a much bigger unemployment problem than before. if you look at the statistics, the truth is that, until the financial crisis, employment was rising everywhere. the lisbon strategy, which some have criticised, was, in fact, in most respects going in the right direction. there was job creation and growth in europe. it is precisely with the financial crisis that we have seen the reversal of the trend in most of our countries, including your country, spain. it was the global financial crisis that put us in a different position. so now, in this social anxiety - not only are there people who are unemployed, but also those who are at risk of falling into it - it's obvious that we need to make a social investment. that is why i have called for a new social ambition. i thought it would be possible to bring together the majority of parliament, and i still believe it, around this priority. mrs. in 't veld told me i hadn't convinced her. you are very hard to convince, madame in 't veld. i will do my best, but i will tell you one thing: i will always do it, not just to convince you, but because i really believe in fundamental rights and freedoms and guarantees. i believe that the commission has a role to play in this matter, not only in terms of legislation but also in terms of the signals we give. i can tell you that whenever there is a problem in the world, whether it is guantanamo or when i meet mr. putin, every time i ask him: "what is going on with the murderers of mrs. politkovskaya? how is it possible that a system like the russian system, which has the largest security system in the world, never finds the murderers of journalists?" i ask president putin the question, as i ask prime ministers questions now, even when i talk to the chinese prime minister, as i always ask questions about human rights. even the japanese prime minister, i ask how it is that now they have again carried out executions of death sentences when there was a moratorium. so the commission is important here, not only through legislation, but also through the signals given by the commission and the president of the commission, as when there was the cartoon crisis in denmark, where i defended and supported unambiguously the right to freedom of expression. i think that we can indeed find a fundamental line of agreement here. mr abad has asked very specific questions and i say to him: i support his suggestions and i think they are important. i believe that we need an industrial base in europe. we do not want relocation, but we do need to adapt this industrial base to the new constraints of global competition and, above all, to the great challenges of climate change and greener growth. i think we have the means to do that. that is why i propose that in future more resources be devoted to this at european level. the budgetary question - someone has asked it - is that we should first try to reach a consensus on the main principles. i think it would be a mistake to start by talking about the amounts for the future budget. it would be divisive. we must first see where there is european added value and then decide what the priorities will be, but i believe that research, innovation and cohesion policy must obviously be important priorities, with the new generations in mind. i hope that the young people of this parliament will support this movement. i have been asked about the global financial tax, the tax on financial transactions. if it's global, i support it, of course. i think that would be a great idea, but let us be clear, i see no point in taking the financial services that we have now, whether in london or frankfurt or paris, out of europe. we are the world's leading financial services company. what's the point of giving the leadership to dubai? i don't see what the point is. let's be clear about this. however, if there were a global financial transaction tax, i think it would be a great idea. i think there are already many reasons for this, for example to fight against hunger in the world, because it is a scandal, what is happening in the 21st century, to help europe achieve the millennium development goals, to fight for more solidarity in europe. perhaps you do not know this, but i have proposed to the council that we increase a facility we have inside europe for food aid, because there are poor people and new poor people in europe, and that has been refused. there are many reasons for a tax, if we wish, provided it is truly global, does not jeopardize europe's competitiveness. i wanted to finish by saying something important. some people said, "why should we elect you? you're the only candidate. is that democratic?" i've often wondered why i'm the only candidate. frankly, i think it was bad for me to be the only candidate. because, let's be clear, as the only candidate, i've been the only one who's been attacked all this time, with criticism. every time you compare me to your ideal candidate, i lose, obviously. i'm losing to an ideal candidate. i'm losing to the ideal candidate from each group. but europe is not built with ideal candidates. europe is an exercise in responsibility. i believe there was no other candidate for the simple reason that there was no support to be a candidate. that's the reason. a number of names have been mentioned, but i have indeed succeeded in reaching a consensus and i am proud of it, because, as we have seen in the discussion, making europe today is an exercise - you will all admit it - extremely difficult and extremely difficult. europe is very diverse. there are many constraints, many priorities, and so, indeed, i am proud to be the candidate who was supported by the party that won the elections, to be the candidate who received the support of democratically elected heads of state and government, of all political persuasions, and i believe that this is not a negative. that said, i am not anyone's secretary-general, and the commission is an independent institution. i can guarantee you that. the commission which i chair and which i will chair if you trust me will be independent in the uncompromising defence of the general european interest. i have understood, as mrs estrela and others have said, that the support of those who are willing to support me is not a blank cheque. i thank all those who supported me, i can't name them all. some of them are still here. thank you. it's not a blank check. i like parliament. some say, "you're too close to the governments". you forget one thing: before i was prime minister, i was leader of the opposition and before i was leader of the opposition, i was a member of parliament. i was first elected to the portuguese parliament when i was 29 years old. i am a parliamentarian, not a technocrat or a bureaucrat. i am a supporter of parliaments and i want to engage with you in this discussion. so your demands can help me and can help the commission to do better. that's what i'll try to do if i have your trust. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, president-designate of the european commission. i would also like to thank everyone here and those who have spoken before for a very lively discussion. i thank minister malmström for joining us for this session. we are introducing new rules of operation, new institutional arrangements in the european union. remember, the president-elect has given the political direction for the next five years here in parliament, where he met with all the political groups. this is a very important message, also to our citizens. we'll be voting tomorrow after a long, exhaustive and wise discussion. (the president continued in english)
member of the commission. - the mr president, on mr kelly's question, it is foreseen that very large sums will be raised by the treasury departments of the member states from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances and among the measures that governments can take is to use part of this money to support low-wage or energy-poor people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new renewable energy directive requires member states to support and implement administrative and infrastructure reforms to facilitate the development of renewable energy sources. each member state has committed to achieving certain targets by 2020 and has to submit by june next year a national renewable energy action plan, which will analyse how the targets will be achieved. with regard to the recast of the energy performance of buildings directive, the commission has also committed to further strengthening community financial instruments and proposing new ones to support the implementation of this directive. the commission already provides direct funding for a variety of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, such as: - a series of research and development efforts under the framework programme for research and technological development. - eur 727 million for the period 2007-2013 from the 'smart energy - europe' programme, to help remove various obstacles to the development of renewable energy sources and to improve the business environment and public awareness. - over eur 500 million for offshore wind projects under the european economic recovery programme to stimulate private investment in the sector. - the sustainable energy financing initiative, managed jointly by the commission and the european investment bank, with a budget of eur 15 million for 2009 and aimed at mobilising financial resources from the capital markets and the marguerite fund, european energy, climate change and infrastructure fund, managed by the european investment bank. the commission also encourages member states to use a significant part of the funds of the european union's cohesion policy funds to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
member of the commission. − within its field of competence the commission has so far responded rapidly to help prevent disastrous social consequences in developing countries, in particular in the least-developed countries, most of which are acp states. these measures include honouring aid commitments and leveraging new resources, acting counter-cyclically, improving aid effectiveness, sustaining economic activity and employment, revitalising agriculture, investing in green growth, stimulating trade and private investment, working together for economic governance and stability, and protecting the most vulnerable in developing countries. concrete actions and procedures have already been put in place to speed up delivery of aid. an ad hoc ‘vulnerability flex’ instrument will mobilise eur 500 million from the european development fund. this v-flex is complementary to actions taken by the world bank and the imf, and will target the most vulnerable countries with poor resilience capacity, giving rapid grant assistance to help them to maintain priority spending, notably in the social sectors. as the v-flex utilises previously unallocated reserve funds, it represents additional financing for these highly vulnerable countries. eur 80 million has also been mobilised for the funding under the existing edf flex mechanism for countries that suffered significant export losses in 2008. in addition, the mid-term review of cooperation strategies for countries funded from the ec budget is currently under way, and the mid-term review for acp countries funded from the edf has been accelerated in order to re-define and adjust the national strategies and allocations in early 2010. nevertheless it is important to recall that development policy is a shared competence within the eu. the prime responsibility for delivering on the oda commitments lies with the member states themselves. i strongly believe that the crisis should not be an excuse for our member states to water down donors’ aid and promises, and i will insist on remaining committed to delivering the promised aid levels, both for eu member states as well as for other donors. in this regard we very publicly monitor member state oda through our annual monterrey survey. on the basis of the information gathered from member states we foresee the eu collective oda increasing from eur 49 billion in 2008 to eur 53.4 billion in 2009 and eur 58.7 billion in 2010. this also means that, without additional steps by member states to fulfil their individual targets, the collective targets for 2010 will not be achieved. moreover this crisis has also shown that we have to strengthen the mechanisms for delivering oda, as the honourable member rightly pointed out. the international aid effectiveness agenda embodied in the paris declaration and the accra agenda for action are now more important than ever. in these difficult economic times we have a particular responsibility towards the world’s poor to make sure our development assistance is being channelled effectively. i will defend this approach personally at the november development council, and the global financial crisis will be at the centre of my political concerns during the weeks ahead.
thank you for that clarification. should the union not be more active at international level? this is about financial institutions like the international monetary fund and the world bank, which should be more flexible in determining how to provide aid during a crisis. finally, how can we eliminate tax evasion and illegal corporate transfers of profits from poor countries? finally, how can trade be liberalised in a fair way so that it benefits those who are entitled to it?
member of the commission. - the firstly, mr president, there are various financing schemes for the czech republic after 2007 and for germany. and of course i have to remind you that with the energy and climate package adopted last december, there will be enough money from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission rights which, under the agreement reached, should be earmarked by 50% for the fight against climate change and other related uses. this means that the plants, and in particular the open-pit mining of lignite, which - by itself - destroys the environment and nature by various problems caused not only to the physical condition of the soil but also to the waters by other pollutants and, as is well known, by the creation of large emissions of carbon dioxide, since lignite is, in this respect, the worst fuel: if you put a scale, it might be among the last in terms of carbon emissions. i would like to say that, in addition to the money that can be made available by the market in pollutants, and as far as germany is concerned in particular, i must say that there is an auction even in the period we are going through now. so there is some money coming from that source. but, in addition, i would like to say that there is community funding which can equally help to repair the environmental damage caused by mining activities. the regional operational programmes for the period 2000-2006 financed projects to rehabilitate areas degraded by coal mining activities in certain states of the former east germany, such as saxony, saxony-anhalt and thuringia. the continuation of this type of support is provided for in the relevant programming documents for the period 2007-2013. the czech republic has a regional operational programme for the period 2007-2013 'north-west' which finances actions to rehabilitate and decontaminate abandoned mining sites. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the g20 summit in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september 2009.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? thank you very much to all the members who have contributed to this debate. i think there is a very strong consensus here in the house on what is important in the european position and what issues we should be pushing for the g20. the eu today has a strong coordinated and clear voice on the international stage and i would like to thank the commission and mr joaquín almunia for the work he has done to help bring about this consensus. many members have raised the issues that both the commissioner and i were concerned about. yes, we need better supervision and better regulation of the financial markets. we hope that a monitoring system can be put in place as soon as possible. we'll use the larossière report to see how fast we can get it in place. we need more coordinated, global solutions and effective and functional international institutions. we need clear principles for bonus systems. i have great confidence in the financial stability board and that they can come up with concrete, workable proposals that we can discuss. we also want to raise the issue of climate finance. we will call on all countries to take responsibility, but i am not sure that it is realistic that we will also be able to discuss figures at the pittsburgh meeting. we will of course be working for that; that would be good. we also need global solutions. we cannot extract eu solutions from this system, but must ensure that as many global solutions as possible are in place. unemployment is perhaps the most visible sign of the economic and financial crisis for people across europe. unemployment will remain in most countries for some time to come and this is very, very serious. european and national solutions are needed. we must have a strong labour market policy, we must make it easier for companies and entrepreneurs to dare to hire and dare to invest, and we must ensure that people are employable by investing in education and research. we will have a special discussion on unemployment in ecofin in october. we also need to discuss exit strategies. otherwise, the measures we have taken are likely to have negative effects on unemployment and growth, and to create deficits and inflation. it always hits the most vulnerable in society first. as regards the poorest countries, we are very, very aware that they are the big losers in the international crisis. it hits hardest on the poorest people in the world. we have discussed and we continue to discuss how we can make it easier for these people. it is important that the multilateral development banks, the mdbs, have sufficient resources to provide soft loans. it is also important that we ensure that the international trading system works and that there is no protectionism in it. therefore, various discussions on global taxes and various variants of the tobin tax are only meaningful if this could really be achieved globally, and today there are no prerequisites for this. if they do, they will only be counterproductive and will not help our economies. many members have raised the issue of hedge funds and new financial regulation. these are priority issues for the swedish presidency. here we are co-deciding with you and looking forward to working very closely with the european parliament to get the hedge fund and financial regulation directives in place as soon as possible. i am aware that it is difficult and complicated - that there are many considerations to be taken there - but we are prepared to work with you as closely as possible to get this in place. in conclusion, the g20 cannot, of course, solve all the problems we have discussed. i have every hope that we can still make some progress on the issues we have discussed. there is a pressure among european citizens, but there are also people around the world who expect us to show leadership and increase the stability of financial systems, do our utmost to avoid this type of crisis in the future and make sure that we can come out of the crisis stronger in the future. the eu stands united, the eu stands strong, and i can assure you that the swedish presidency will do its utmost to defend and present the european views at the g20 meeting next week. thank you very much for a very interesting debate.
member of the commission. - mr president, i think we can all agree that, in the current situation, where we still have to face great and profound challenges as a result of the crisis, but we are beginning to see some important signs of improvement in some economic indicators, in particular in growth in international trade, in consumer and investor confidence, the success of the pittsburgh summit, the success of the g20 meeting, the credibility that, as a result of these meetings, solutions to the problems and challenges we are facing are beginning to be found and applied, is of extraordinary importance. that is why all the items on the summit agenda should be, must be and i hope will be agreed by the heads of state and government and put into effect following next week's meeting. among the most important points, which many of you have mentioned, is the clarification, the clear message of how the world's major economies want to continue to coordinate their actions. and now the next step in economic policy coordination must be to define an exit strategy and to commit to the decision on when and how that strategy is to be implemented in a coordinated manner. we must learn - and i think we have learned - the lesson of the crisis of 1990 that we cannot withdraw stimulus too soon, when the economy, as some of you have said, still needs to be on crutches, but we must also not prolong stimulus beyond what is necessary, because then we would again be repeating the conditions that gave rise to the bubbles and imbalances that brought us this crisis. that is a very important issue, which must be clarified by the pittsburgh summit. we must avoid repeating past mistakes, not only in macroeconomic policy but also in financial regulation and supervision, and i believe that commitment has been made very clear at previous summits. it is now a matter of developing it further, of honouring the commitments already made, both at global level and, in our case, at european level. in this respect, i agree with those who have said in this morning's debate that not everything should be reduced to the question of pay, but i fully agree with those who say that the question of pay is extremely important from an economic, social, political and ethical point of view. and i believe that europe - as has been the case on other issues on the g20 agenda - is showing leadership, both through some of the heads of state and government and through the european institutions themselves, the presidency of the european union and the commission. we cannot forget that the european commission already sent recommendations to the member states in april this year on pay, which are practically in line with what everyone is now proposing. the problems of the financial system - increased capital, restructuring and balance sheet consolidation of banks - need to be addressed further, both at european and global level. in a fully interconnected financial system, it would be of no use to us to solve our problems within our borders if others are not solving theirs at the same time. let us agree on how a year ago, the day before the lehman brothers crisis, we still believed we could avoid the biggest problems of the financial crisis that had been created in the united states. but without a sound financial system, all the rest cannot be sustained. and that is the challenge that the pittsburgh summit has to solve, or that the g-20 has to continue to solve at the pittsburgh summit. and finally, a comment on a theme that has been present in many of your speeches. i agree with the other points on the g20 agenda which many of you have mentioned, but i would like to refer to one, which is that of tax havens, that of non-cooperative jurisdictions. it is true that the g20 meeting in london did not find solutions to all the problems posed by tax havens. it would be very difficult to find all the solutions in one day to a problem that has been present for many years. but it is absolutely true that, since the london summit in april and up to now, in the last six months, many more problems have been solved, at that particular point - in the exchange of information necessary to prevent tax evasion and to prevent economic and financial activities from being concealed from the public authorities, using the protection of tax havens - than could have been solved or wanted to be solved in many years before the london summit. so it is true that not everything is being achieved in six months, but in six months we are achieving a great deal on a subject which is very important to prevent financial activities hidden from the regulatory and supervisory authorities from creating, again, distortions in the system, and it is also extraordinarily important from the point of view of the message we are sending to our citizens about burden sharing and the efforts needed to deal with this crisis. and finally, someone has said that the voice of the union must be heard above the voices of the european g20 member states. the voice of the european union, i can assure you that under the swedish presidency and with the voice of the european commission is heard. and it is listened to with attention and respect, because europe, the european union, not one or two european countries, the european union has been the initiator of this process of coordination at global level and it is the one that shows the advantages of the most effective results when there is real coordination.
in writing. the g20 summit in pittsburgh will take place almost the day after the first anniversary of the collapse of lehman brothers. this anniversary should provide a horizon for action by world leaders. the effects of the crisis are felt by people in almost every corner of the globe. the g20 summit should have as its primary objective to minimise the risk of a recurrence of the crisis caused by the deregulation of financial markets. so the task before the g20 leaders is to create regulations that prevent the creation of another speculative bubble and, let's be frank, the defrauding of millions of customers of financial institutions around the world. in recent months, we have heard alarming reports of executives using up public funds to drive their companies to the brink of bankruptcy. in europe, in recent years, we have seen the emergence of income disparities that are completely unprecedented in the european social model. one of the tasks of the g20 should be to level them at european and global level. in the financial sector, it is necessary to introduce the principle that premiums are not dependent on short-term profits but on the long-term profitability of investments. in pittsburgh, the leaders of several european countries and the european union as a whole will be present. that is why europe must speak with one voice at the g20. i would ask the representative of the european union to bear in mind that the interests of the community also include those of the member states which will not have their own national representatives in america.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the european strategy for the baltic sea was intended to promote a comprehensive development programme for this part of europe, inter alia by creating natural and shortest transport corridors to balance the development of the countries of the so-called old and new europe. i therefore welcome with surprise the proposal from the european commission and the council to redesign the central european corridor. the most economical link between the adriatic sea and the baltic sea is the central european corridor along the oder river, which ends its inland course in the port of szczecin-świnoujście. i am asking for a clear clause that reactivates the original shape of the strategy, which talks about a central european corridor that will not eliminate from europe's development plans such important ports as the port of szczecin-świnoujście, already affected by the action of the european commission through the liquidation of the shipbuilding industry.
the macro-region requires a coordinated sustainable development policy. this was recognised by the european parliament and then by the council, which in 2007 commissioned the european commission to develop a baltic sea strategy and, consequently, an action plan. i would like to emphasise the role played by the then commissioner, mrs danuta hübner, in the development of this strategy. this work is now being continued by commissioner samecki, to whom i also extend my warmest congratulations. the strategy responds to the key challenges identified here, such as how to achieve prosperity in a region without the development of innovation and entrepreneurship, or how to fail to appreciate the baltic as a common good without building a sustainable environment, or security in the region, including energy, without building new sources of generation and interconnections. the same is true for the safety of citizens and the accessibility of the region through the construction of trans-european transport links. i would like to highlight the great role - and this is a great achievement - of the opinion-forming circles consulted on this draft strategy, in particular civil society organisations, local and regional authorities, governments and baltic organisations. this active involvement of the organisation should be put to good use in implementing this strategy. the baltic sea strategy is a good example of how political will can be complemented by instruments of community policies that cover a large macro-regional area of the european union. i have four comments, commissioner. first, i believe it is crucial to focus on the baltic sea strategy management in order to avoid confusing interests at local, governmental and union level. let us also ensure that the implementation and the course of the strategy itself are adequately financed. a budgetary amendment has also been notified in this respect. secondly, there is a need for full implementation of the single market principles in the macro-region, taking into account the experience and commitment of the local and regional level. the last two are institutional support for the financing of projects under the strategy and maintaining good relations with our partners in the region, such as russia, norway and belarus.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. the establishment of the baltic sea strategy is a very important achievement of the european parliament, in which the baltic intergroup members have played a key role. this strategy, similar to the mediterranean strategy, which at the time led to rapid economic development in the south, is a good instrument for the development of the baltic region and thus the european union as a whole. in terms of priorities, i would first like to note the establishment of a common european union energy policy, including a competitive baltic energy market. this includes both the security of energy supply and energy efficiency aspects, as well as the development of renewable energy sources. latvia, lithuania and estonia need to be integrated into the overall regional energy network, including nordel. the second priority is the further development of infrastructure. the roads in some baltic sea countries are in a very poor state, due to both climatic conditions and sometimes ineffective policies. the development of transit corridors and communication networks will promote entrepreneurship and create new jobs. to speak of effective economic development and environmental protection, the third priority is the innovation economy, which means balanced, knowledge-based growth. the implementation of the strategy requires additional funding, which must be provided for at least in the next financial perspective of the european union. the five billion energy programme, the globalisation fund and other financial instruments must now be used. an effective strategy implementation and monitoring mechanism is also important. it should be simple, transparent and free of red tape. regular reports on the implementation of the strategy and interim reports are required. the first one should be in 2010. i welcome the active role of the swedish presidency in launching this strategy. allow me to express my hope that we will be efficient and flexible in the implementation of a specific action plan.
mr. chairman, please! five years ago, the baltic sea became virtually an internal sea of the european union. today we are debating a draft strategy to make the most of the enormous potential of this region, a project initiated by the european parliament. however, not all the recommendations of our chamber have been accepted by the commission. the most serious is the absence and abandonment of the creation of a separate budget line for the baltic sea region. the commission shall ensure that the funding will come from existing instruments, mainly the structural funds. however, i am afraid that without the funds earmarked for this purpose alone, we will not be able to achieve all the objectives we have set out. the authors of the strategy mention the need for close cooperation with russia. however, the biggest threat to the baltic sea today, the construction of the nord stream pipeline, cannot be ignored. the european parliament adopted a negative position on this issue last year. i hope that the new commission will also bear this resolution in mind when implementing the action plan attached to the strategy.
mr president, it is indeed a unique european regional policy initiative and a pioneering project. innovation-driven prosperity, the environment, accessibility in terms of transport and energy connections, and security and safety are the four major areas for joint work by all partners who are involved in preparation of the strategy: all three european institutions – parliament, the commission, the council – but also national governments, regional and local authorities, business and academic communities and non-governmental organisations. the process of the preparation of the strategy has led to a genuine partnership between all of them. development challenges increasingly do not respect administrative or political borders. the strategy will make it possible to replace the often very fragmented and scattered policy responses with a genuine shared response to shared development problems and opportunities. the european parliament’s committee on regional development, which is the leading committee on this project in parliament, will give high importance to it in its work. we will hold the debate on 6 october with the commission and the council; the own-initiative report will be prepared in the months to come. we will also keep the implementation of the strategy under review and i trust that this action-oriented strategy enhances the union’s chances to build green, modern and competitive economies.
in writing. the baltic sea strategy, announced in june 2009, aims to make the region environmentally friendly, prosperous, easily accessible and attractive, and safe. this is particularly relevant in the context of the increasing challenges facing the baltic sea since the eu enlargement in 2004. it is important to take action to improve the ecological situation in this region, which is currently one of the most polluted marine areas in the world. thousands of tons of toxic warfare agents lie at the bottom of the baltic sea in mines, missiles, bombs, containers and barrels. the quantity of these chemicals ranges from 30 to 60 thousand tonnes, of which the quantity of the mustard gas itself is estimated at 13 thousand tonnes. the chemical weapons were sunk after world war ii, in the late 1940s. it was a weapon found in the german occupation zones, and it was difficult to bury it in the ground, so it was decided that it would be best to sink it in the seas. the breach of the chemical weapons stored on the bottom of the baltic sea by creating any kind of infrastructure can lead to an ecological disaster, and it is the breach during the construction of the baltic gas pipeline of the chemical weapons storage sites from the second world war that is one of the greatest threats to the ecosystem. it is therefore necessary to assess the environmental impact of the construction of the pipeline on the baltic sea basin.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes) we have a very important and symbolic vote today. once every five years, the european parliament decides who will head another eu institution.
the proposal is to have a verification vote, a vote that we know everyone has their cards, everyone is sitting comfortably and the machines are working. ladies and gentlemen, i repeat once again. once every five years, the european parliament decides who will head another eu institution. the president of the european commission is to be elected today. this choice will underline the democratic nature of our institutions. it will be done by us, the elected representatives of all the european regions. the european council proposed that josé manuel barroso be appointed president of the commission. in accordance with rule 105 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, parliament shall approve or reject the proposed candidate by a majority of the votes cast. the vote is secret. we shall now proceed to the election of the president of the commission in accordance with the provisions of parliament's rules of procedure. the vote shall be taken by electronic means. i would remind you that you may vote from any seat in the chamber, provided that you have inserted your personal voting card in the voting machine. i'm reporting this because there are so many new members in the room. as usual, you can vote for or against the candidate or abstain. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) i call to order the results of the vote: 718 deputies voted, 382 in favour, 219 against, 117 abstentions. (laughter)
according to these results, which we see on the scoreboard (you can no longer see them), the president of the european commission was elected, proposed by the council, josé manuel barroso. i would like to warmly congratulate the newly elected president on his election as president of the commission. i'd like to say that we have a lot of work to do. we will have to face challenges, our citizens expect us to act very energetically now and act in accordance with their expectations. mr president, i know that you are aware of the priorities of the european parliament. after the discussions we had in both the political groups and yesterday, you know what our expectations are. so we're making a lot of promises to each other after we get to work with you for the next five years. we expect above all to be able to respond to what our citizens want. once again, congratulations and i'll give you the floor if you'd like to say a few words. congratulations and all the best! (laughter)
the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks for the great confidence you have shown me. i take this trust with immense honor, with great emotion and with a great sense of responsibility. i also take this expression of confidence as a sign of this parliament's commitment to the ambitious agenda i am presenting for europe over the next five years. as i said during the discussions before the vote, i would like to work with all the political groups which are part of this ambitious project for a europe of solidarity and freedom. i cannot, however, fail to express special appreciation to the european people's party, which in warsaw before the elections took the risk of expressing its support for this programme of mine, thus seeking from the outset to give greater expression to european parliamentary democracy. but as i said in the plenary yesterday and during these days, as president of the commission my party will be europe and it is with all those who want to come on this exhilarating journey that the building of a united europe is. it is with all of them that i would like to form the necessary consensus to strengthen the european project. let me also say a word on this occasion for my country, portugal. without the initiative and support of his government and prime minister josé sócrates he could not have been a candidate. i would like to thank portugal for its support, which was also expressed to me by the president of the republic, professor cavaco silva. i would like to thank each and every one of you who, as the committed europeans you are, believe in this project for europe. finally, i would like to reiterate to you, mr president, and to all members of this house, my sincere determination to work closely with you during the next five years so that you can build a stronger european parliamentary democracy. i believe that the european parliament and the european commission, the typical community institutions, have a special duty towards our citizens. that is exactly what i have said i will do and that is exactly what i am going to do a stronger europe for freedom and solidarity. (applause from the left)
i have an official announcement. in accordance with rule 105 (3), i shall inform the council of the result we obtained ten minutes ago and ask the council, as well as the newly elected president of the commission, to propose jointly candidates for the posts of commissioners. given the amount of work we have to do, we should elect a commission as soon as possible. this was the official announcement of mr barroso's election as president of the european commission.
in writing. - we all want europe to become stronger and people to live better! you are too, judging by the 'political guidelines for the next commission' which you presented to the european parliament. but the candidate for the next commission president is required to do more than just present a catalogue of the objectives he intends to achieve. the more so as the objectives are so varied that there is a fear that they may be mutually exclusive, and it is certain that at some point it will be necessary to choose which of the priorities are 'more important'. for example, what would you choose if the objective of ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy were to conflict with the objective of high employment? i didn't get that from the text you sent. i have the impression that the document you have prepared is a collection of wishes that have not been fulfilled in the past term. the question is, why didn't it work? but i'd like to comment on a point in your program regarding the internet. you mention the importance of the internet for europe's economic development and social cohesion, and even promise that the next commission will develop a 'european digital agenda'. i would like to know how you intend to put this in practice and what new initiatives the agenda will bring in comparison with the previous ones.
in writing. - i voted for the forest fire resolution. this year, more than 200,000 hectares of forests have already been burned in the european union. that's more than in all of 2008! in poland, the forest fire risk ratio is among the highest in europe. in april 2009, the number of fires was the highest in five years. we need to take urgent and effective action to combat global warming, which is one of the causes of fires. the resolution also stresses the importance of coordinating the eu's climate risk prevention mechanisms, and in particular the effective use of the european union solidarity fund to mitigate the effects of fires. it is necessary to establish a joint union rapid reaction force for natural disasters. this would be a financial and organisational and administrative complement to the activities undertaken in the member states. i hope that the next resolution of parliament on firefighting will be taken up by the european commission and will encourage it to step up its efforts in this area.
acts adopted under the codecision procedure are signed by the president of the european parliament and the presidency, which represents the council. before we resume the meeting, the legislative package will be signed, thereby making it legally binding. the council shall be represented by cecilia malmström, minister for european affairs. i am very pleased to have commissioner benita ferrero-waldner with us today. i'd like to say a few words about the legislation we're signing today. today, the day before the extraordinary summit of the european union, which is preparing the g20 meeting in pittsburgh, is a good opportunity to emphasise the role of the european parliament as a co-legislator. i was invited to represent the ep at the dinner of the heads of state and government. we, the european union, will be preparing to attend the g20 summit in pittsburgh. today, the important package of four different pieces of legislation in the codecision procedure that we have passed in response to the financial crisis. what's in the package? the capital requirements directive, the credit rating agency regulation, the new intra-corporate cross-border payments regulation and the decision establishing a support programme for certain activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing. directives and regulations aim to protect eu investors and the financial system in the european union, as well as to enhance consumer protection and better supervision. these acts are intended to contribute to the stabilisation of financial markets. we are making our promises, but the legislation we are signing was prepared by parliament in the previous term. would minister malmström like to speak before the signing of the legislation?
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we are now about to sign a number of acts which are very central to the eu's response to the financial and economic crisis which has hit europe so hard and which will continue to leave its mark. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the czech presidency for the very hard work it has put into the short time needed to produce these acts. thanks to the czech presidency, we quickly established a well-functioning cooperation between the council and parliament and quick and effective agreements. as i said earlier, we are cautiously optimistic about the economic situation, but we also know that unemployment will hit very hard in many countries in the near future. there are therefore reasons for us in parliament, the council and the commission to continue to work closely together. i look forward to that cooperation and i am proud to be signing these acts with you, mr president.
i would like to point out that what we are doing is an expression of the continuity of the council, parliament and commission. in the meantime, elections to the european parliament have taken place, which in no way hamper our activities, our work. i would now like to invite minister malmström to sign the joint declaration (we will sign it at this table). i would also like to invite commissioner ferrero-waldner, the former and current chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mrs berès and mrs bowles - both ladies, please, to the centre - and the rapporteurs - mr karas and mr gauzès. you will all be present at the signing, and i will sign with the minister. i would also like to point out that mrs starkevičiūtė and mr hoppenstedt were rapporteurs, but they are no longer in the european parliament, they were members of the previous term. now we'll move on to the signatures.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i am pleased to have the opportunity this afternoon to discuss the eu's relations with tajikistan and in particular the importance we attach to laying a new foundation for our relations with the country by concluding partnership and cooperation agreements. i know that this parliament has a great interest in this matter. as early as february 2008, in your resolution on an eu strategy for central asia, you called on the member states to ratify the partnership and cooperation agreement swiftly, thus confirming parliament's intention to approve the agreement in the near future. now that the agreement has been ratified, we have a strong desire to move forward with the remaining steps as quickly as possible so that the partnership and cooperation agreement can enter into force as soon as possible, hopefully before the end of the year. if so, it will send a clear signal that we are opening a new chapter in our relations between the european union and tajikistan. tajikistan is an important part of our overall strategy for central asia. it's a hard-to-reach country, one of the poorest countries in the world. it has a poorly guarded border with afghanistan, and is thus a major drug smuggling route and an entry point for radical islamists into the region. we therefore have a great interest in supporting tajikistan, both for its own sake and to try to solve common problems. we're already doing that through a series of contacts. the swedish presidency sent a high-level group to the region in july, and a ministerial conference with central asia took place in brussels yesterday. but tajikistan is one of the very few countries in the eu's eastern neighbourhood with which we have not yet concluded a comprehensive post-cold war agreement. if we are serious about addressing all the issues i have mentioned, we must create an appropriate framework for our future relations. the arrangements for political dialogue and practical cooperation with tajikistan need to be improved to better reflect the common challenges facing the region. a partnership and cooperation agreement would allow for a more structured discussion of issues of common interest: human rights, the rule of law, the fight against drugs and organised crime, as well as terrorism and religious organisation. at the same time, we must make progress on issues of democracy, good governance and human rights in the region. we are well aware that this is not an easy task. it is therefore very welcome that there is a structured dialogue on human rights with tajikistan which gives us the opportunity to have a frank discussion. the second round of this dialogue will take place on 23 september in dushanbe. we must continue to encourage tajikistan to embark on a reform programme. the way things turn out is often very worrying. we would like to see a more democratic approach in the country in terms of freedom of association, freedom of religion, freedom of the media and the development of civil society. we must do our utmost to convince tajikistan that the rule of law must be respected in the fight against illegal activities, drug trafficking and terrorism. we must stress that human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected as a means of preventing ethnic or cultural conflicts. we are also very concerned about the widespread corruption in the country. it impedes both the development of tajikistan and effective donor contributions. we should use all available channels to appeal to the tajik authorities to address this problem as quickly as possible. we cannot ignore the fact that all - or at least a very large number - of drug trafficking transit routes pass through tajikistan. the country is at risk of exposure to radical movements and international organised crime. we must increase our support for tajikistan to counter this activity, but at the same time consider alternative sources of revenue. this strategy is also very much in line with our commitment to afghanistan and the efforts to stabilise that country. we welcome tajikistan's interest in cooperating and contributing to these efforts. tajikistan has shown an open and constructive attitude to discussions on our common challenges. that's good. this dialogue is an important element in assisting tajikistan in promoting cooperation with its neighbours and in finding solutions to pressing and complex regional problems, such as climate change, water and border management. given our strong interest in addressing many of these problems more effectively and efficiently, i welcome the opportunity to create a new basis for our relations with tajikistan. the partnership and cooperation agreement provides us with a framework within which to further develop bilateral relations and thereby contribute to the overall objectives of our strategy throughout central asia. i therefore call on this parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement so that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank mr peterle for his excellent report, and also the resolution, which gives a very good analysis of the situation in tajikistan and makes recommendations which i can support. since the eu strategy for central asia was adopted in june 2007, our relationships with all the countries of central asia have been deepening to our mutual benefit. the rhythm of contacts between us has gathered pace, and there is now a shared understanding of the benefits of greater cooperation on security matters, border management and controls, education, governance and energy diversification. the strategy is succeeding in forging a new kind of partnership with the five central asian republics. clearly, though, this overarching strategy is underpinned by individual and differentiated bilateral relations that reflect the varying aspirations and orientations of the countries concerned. as you all know, our cooperation with tajikistan is currently still governed by the trade and cooperation agreement concluded with the ussr in 1989 and endorsed by tajikistan in 1994. this agreement does not fully reflect our ambitions under the central asia strategy any more, nor does it serve to support the kind of relationship we now seek with tajikistan. your assent to the new eu-tajikistan partnership and cooperation agreement, which is before you for debate today, would therefore represent a major step forward, allowing us to widen and deepen our cooperation with this country. today’s tajikistan is confronted as has been said already by major economic and social challenges. it is important – and in europeans’ own interests – that tajikistan should succeed in tackling its difficulties. this is a country which shares a nearly 1 500 km border with afghanistan, and which lies close to the swat valley in pakistan. it is a territory vulnerable to spill-over from these conflict areas and to infiltration by islamic militants. tajikistan is also key to efforts to stem the flow of illegal drugs to europe from afghanistan. greater cooperation with the european union can therefore play a part in helping to prevent the spread of instability. a key element in tajikistan’s vulnerabilities is its weak economy. the poorest of the central asian republics has been badly hit by a substantial decrease in prices for aluminium and cotton due to the global downturn. this, taken together with a 34% drop in remittances in the first half of 2009, gives rise to concern that poverty levels may be rising, and that a precarious socioeconomic situation could provoke social unrest. i believe that we are now on the right track with tajikistan, supporting and encouraging indispensable reforms. this has also been the focus of eu special representative morel’s frequent visits and of my own visit in spring 2008. there is progress but clearly more needs to be done. the government has made clear that, in addition to greater trade and cooperation, it is willing to implement measures to improve social welfare, health, education, tackle corruption and improve human rights. it is to be welcomed that president rahmon has created the post of an ombudsman. the ombudsman will be an important interlocutor for us in the next round of the eu-tajikistan human rights dialogue that you mentioned, on 23 september. judiciary reform is still making slow progress, but we hope the recommendations of a recent human rights civil society seminar in dushanbe will be taken into account by the government, particularly in reform of the legal profession and the new criminal procedure code in tajikistan. i am of course very well aware of your concerns on democracy and human rights in tajikistan and i can therefore assure you that the commission will take these concerns fully into account in our dialogues with this country. as to the economic reforms, we see progress for example on the drafting of a cotton debt resolution mechanism, which hopefully will pave the way for wider agricultural reforms and the implementation of ‘freedom to farm’, crucial to tackling poverty in the country. the european parliament’s assent to the pca today will help us to continue to work with tajikistan on a whole range of political and economic reforms, with a special focus on democracy and human rights, and also to ensure their thorough implementation. the reform effort is already underpinned by a relatively large amount of bilateral assistance from the commission. indeed it is eur 66 million for the period 2007 to 2010 which will even rise to eur 70 million over the three years 2011 and 2013. our aid will focus on sector support for social protection and health, public finance management reform and technical assistance for private sector development. this process will be supported by our delegation in dushanbe. it is my intention that, before the end of this year, our regionalised office there should become a fully-fledged delegation to encourage the reform process and facilitate full implementation of the pca. in particular, i hope it will help us to maintain a thorough assessment of progress in the key areas as i have mentioned, which we will then measure against clear benchmarks.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, alois peterle, on a very well-written and - i would like to stress this - very well-balanced report on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and tajikistan. tajikistan is a country that is often criticized for its lack of democracy. the thing that most people don't like is the lack of freedom of the press, or freedom of religion, or corruption. i'm not going to argue with those charges. it is worth noting, however, that tajikistan has made recent progress in both fighting corruption and improving human rights, as well as in many other sensitive areas. it is also a relatively stable country, and this is important because tajikistan is a country with a strategic location. we talked about it today. neighbouring afghanistan and its related problems of mass production and trafficking of drugs, terrorism and growing extremism, and its increasingly unstable neighbour pakistan, tajikistan can be a natural ally for the european union. it is therefore in the union's interest to continue to support the democratic processes in that country and to strengthen its political, economic and social potential. let's remember that tajikistan is the poorest of the former soviet republics. it was one of only 12 countries last year to be included on the un's list of countries most affected by the global food crisis. i am glad that in this context we are also recalling the millennium development goals in the report, and we are also reminding tajikistan of these goals. the european union is tajikistan's first trading partner. both parties should aim to implement the agreement as soon as possible, thereby promoting economic development and stabilisation. besides criticizing what's wrong with tajikistan, it doesn't work. we should also send a positive signal that we want to develop our relations with that country, and i believe that mr peterle's report sends that signal, and so does the whole of parliament.
i just wanted to say thank you so much for letting me ask you a question. i think it's a very good thing that this deal is being done because it's a step in the right direction. i am asking myself, and i would like to ask minister malmström, whether, among the various measures planned by the union, it would not be desirable to put more emphasis on helping tajikistan to train the people responsible for securing the border with afghanistan. we know this is a very serious problem. this border is 1,000 miles long. tajikistan has serious border security problems, especially since there is a large tajik minority on the afghan side. so i think that among the various activities undertaken by the union, it would also be worthwhile to think about helping to train the forces in tajikistan and the people responsible for the security of that border.
on behalf of the ecr group. i am very pleased that our colleague, until recently, minister cecilia malmström, spoke on behalf of the council today. the european parliament has lost by her leaving us, but the swedish presidency has certainly gained. i would like to say for her speech in swedish the word 'tack', which means 'thank you', and in my language, in polish, the word 'yes' and indeed the word 'so' fits very well because i fully agree with what she has presented to us today on behalf of the council, although i have some small but important remarks here. firstly, i would very much like to see this legitimate initiative of the council, supported by the commission, not be, let us say, a genuine alternative to the rapid accession of serbia, macedonia and montenegro to the european union. this is what the people of these countries expect, this is what the people of these countries deserve. i think that we should not substitute the abolition of visas for the prospect of rapid accession to the european union for these countries. secondly, i believe that the people of bosnia and herzegovina, albania and kosovo also deserve, as quickly as possible, to be granted visa-free travel. we must continue to show them a european perspective on this.
on behalf of the ecr group. the lithuanian law on protection of minors was written with concern for the emotional and psychological development of the youngest media users, who are increasingly present in the lives of children. the second concern of the lithuanian legislators was to bring up children in line with the beliefs of their parents. i don't think there's a person in this room who wouldn't agree that these are important and pressing issues. such intentions deserve respect, not criticism, but that's not the point of this case. this law does not violate any paragraph, and most often does not even touch european law. the matters raised in the written request are strictly within the scope of the national law of the member states. no one has ever authorised the european union to act in these areas. this is the fundamental reason why we are opposed to bringing this issue to the european level and why we will never accept that any ideology can justify the overstepping of the limits of european law. that is why we cannot support any of the resolutions on this subject.
in writing. discrimination is prohibited under eu and international law. the relevant provisions are found in the treaties, the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights. no member state may legislate in a manner contrary to those instruments. the lithuanian law is unacceptable, absurd and homophobic in its content. homophobia is a disease. but those who are sick with homophobia should not be pitied. they're not so much homophobes as sexual chauvinists. like all other chauvinists, they must be fought and legislated against. in 1990, the world health organization removed homosexuality from the international statistical classification of diseases and health problems, which is the most widely used classification of diseases. she also said that no sexual orientation is a disorder. in every society, including lithuania, there are lesbians, gays, bisexuals. they make up between 4 and 7 percent of the population. they're a minority who have all the rights. the equality marches that some people are so outraged about are organized in part to remind people of this basic, fundamental principle of equality. i therefore call on the council and the presidency to take appropriate action against the enactment of discriminatory laws by member states. we must show that the union is a firm no to all discrimination and intolerance.
the measures that have been taken (i am speaking today to polish farmers and polish processors) indicate that there has been a slight improvement in the situation of milk processors, but absolutely no change in the very difficult situation of polish and european farmers. they're still getting very little for their production, below cost of doing business. this also applies to those farmers who have invested huge amounts of money, using eu funds and using loans. this situation is getting them into more and more trouble, they're not coping with their obligations. in this context, i would like to refer to the future. we must react now, but we must also think ahead and plan a common policy for farmers too, and i repeat: a common policy for milk farmers, to plan sensible investments in this sector so that we do not spend money which then, by increasing production, gets us into the trouble we are in today. i also hope that the future agreement on the amounts will be reached by all political forces.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. our debate has indeed been overshadowed by the dramatic events surrounding spilled milk. we're all deeply affected by this. i would like to refer to the problem raised by my colleague, mr nicholson, namely the abuse of the large retail chains, the hypermarkets, towards consumers on the one hand and towards suppliers in particular on the other. i would like to recall that in the last term of office in 2008, the european parliament adopted a written resolution, of which i was one of the co-authors, on the need to put an end to these abuses and to have the commission carry out an intensive investigation. i know that such measures are being taken, but they are probably too slow and i wanted to ask whether the commissioner is interested in this and what are the prospects for taking such measures in general. something very wrong is happening with the economic policy of the european union, because farmers' incomes are less than 10% of the value of the product. this must change and i ask the commissioner to act on this.
since the nabucco and south stream agreements were signed, the race has been on. it is time to decide whether nabucco will play its role in the security policy of the european union. that is why i am surprised to see the european commission's policy towards russia on this issue. the commission is deeply mistaken in considering that south stream is not a project competing with nabucco. the commission is wrong not to react to gazprom's continued penetration of the european energy market. the commission is also wrong to give its passive approval to gazprom's projects in the baltic and black seas. nabucco will only succeed if it receives lasting political guarantees. that is why we need an active policy in central asia in the black sea region. the energy link between these countries and europe will strengthen their sovereignty, improve our security and perhaps open the way to the reforms we want. if afghanistan is a test for nato, then the test of the fitness and maturity of the european union is undoubtedly energy security. the success of these plans depends solely on our political will. treaty amendments are a subsidiary subject here.
i wonder, listening to you, whether the citizens of the union are condemned only on our words. we could have checked that in january of this year during the energy crisis. we are passing resolutions because we all feel that the union is not able to respond to the energy security issues. and we see, commissioner, that interest in nabucco is declining, but not in all energy projects among the eu countries. the north stream is in the north and this is a very serious step against the common foreign policy. south of southstream. here again, the eu countries are eager to get involved, and when it comes to nabucco, we hear a lot of talk about spells and not enough money or political support. we're discussing it in strasbourg, and there are concrete-layers working for nordstream over the baltic. i would like to know if i can take the enthusiasts of the lisbon treaty at their word that once it is adopted, they will no longer support either nordstream or southstream. nabucco could be a very good step towards energy security. if we continue to rely on words, then in the next energy crisis we will be able to send our resolutions to the citizens of the eu countries and then they will burn them.
the european union needs suppliers who are fully transparent in their business practices and who meet their commitments. the energy charter and the transitional protocol to the energy charter are an attempt to establish a system based on clear principles. russia's recent signal to withdraw from the energy charter treaty should be a warning. a warning to companies investing in russia and also a warning to the commission. it should also be an incentive for the commission to take action as soon as possible for a european energy security system. we can only hope that russia will respect the charter and not take any final action. the internal gas market of the european union must function without any restrictions, allowing for the operation of cross-border gas connections and networks. european gas consumers cannot be at the mercy of the monopolists. (the president cut the speaker off)
in september 2007, based of course on the 2006 decision of the parliament and the council on the nabucco pipeline, among others, the european coordinator for this project was appointed, mr josias van aartsen, who in 2009 presented his interesting report, also with interesting, interesting conclusions. one of the conclusions is that we are facing difficulties in the nabucco project. even its current level of funding indicates that it is. i would like to ask you whether you do not think that, apart from your personal interest, the appointment of a coordinator for the nabucco project could give him a more efficient momentum for implementation, so that we can be sure that what we are talking about here today and what the member states, including my country, poland, also expect, would have a 100% chance of being implemented.
mr. chairman, i voted against this resolution because lithuania can handle the problem. the president of lithuania has set up a special group to evaluate this law, which is not due to come into force until 2010, and furthermore, i think that this is too far-reaching interference in the affairs of a sovereign state such as lithuania. in addition, the resolution included a provision to seek legal advice from the fundamental rights agency. the fra is not here to evaluate and give opinions on individual countries. it would be too dangerous a precedent.
i voted for this resolution because the energy issue is such a great test of european solidarity. member states must cooperate with each other in this respect. energy policy must be linked to foreign policy. the commission also has to look at the different energy security situations in different european countries. the fight against global warming means that coal-based energy can be in a financial mess. prices will hit the citizens. it is high time that a common european policy was adopted in this respect. the commission must make it clear that it will fight the selfishness of member states who see no danger in continuing to rely on a single supplier, such as gas, as is the case with russia. what is needed is action and a clear political will from the european commission and the energy commissioner.
in writing. - with regard to the amendments proposing the freezing of milk quotas, i would like to say: firstly, there is no reason to believe that the announcement of an increase in production quotas (which was the result of the cap review) has had any impact on the crisis in the sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway. it is unfair and even immoral to change the rules of the game during a game. thirdly, i would remind you that at the copenhagen summit in 2002 we (including poland) negotiated milk quotas knowing that the quota was to be in force until 2007. in luxembourg, the quotation was postponed until 2014 without our participation and voting rights. we cannot fix the situation in the dairy sector by giving some producers a chance to improve at the expense of others. we should think and act in a way that gives everyone a chance, no matter what country they come from - the old 15 or the new 12.
in writing. - i voted against a resolution which could set a dangerous precedent for the eu. in my view, its content and purpose are incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. resolutions of this kind can increase eurosceptic sentiment, as they confirm the tendency of the union to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. the principle of non-interference in internal affairs is not absolute, but there is nothing going on in lithuania that would force us to intervene. those who want a better europe should vote against this resolution. that's why i did what i did. thank you very much. thank you.
i wanted to thank the commissioner for the information, but my question is of a slightly different nature. not so long ago, taiwan experienced a tragedy, but we know that there have been many such tragedies, and there may be many more. the question i wanted to ask the commissioner is therefore: does the european union, and the commission in particular, have any standards of behaviour in such a situation? is there a package of measures taken of an ad hoc nature, offers for the countries concerned and is there also a package of measures of a long-term nature? i think it would be wrong if we responded to such tragedies in different ways in different countries. i think that, as in the military, you have to have a standard of certain emergency procedures. that's what i wanted to ask you.
the author. - the european parliament is once again debating the issue of human rights violations in russia. the systematic persecution of religious and ethnic minorities is now accompanied by the regular killing of human rights defenders. the work of russian journalists and ngo activists involves putting lives at risk every day. threats, kidnappings, torture, unjust detention and murder are becoming commonplace. the russian authorities' inaction in investigating the crimes committed, the lack of concrete results and the remaining criminals in prison are not only proof of complete ineffectiveness, but also of their acquiescence and indifference. respect for human rights should be one of the key issues in the further development of the european union's relations with russia. it is our duty to demand that russia conduct a thorough and effective investigation, punish those responsible and put an end to the brutal murders.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in a country with high crime rates, it is easy to say that human rights defenders are killed by accident. it is a coincidence that in such countries, many people are victims of ordinary crime. today, september 17th, i must remind you of a sad anniversary, the 70th anniversary of the soviet invasion of poland. after that attack, the soviets shot at least 21,768 polish citizens. why am i saying this? because today in russia, it's said that this was a common crime, just as it's common to kill human rights defenders. the scale of the killings of human rights defenders in russia makes it completely impossible to interpret this phenomenon as the result of ordinary crime. the theory that these are random murders is untenable. the systematicity of these events means that there must be something in the climate, in the social, political atmosphere of russia that causes these murders to happen so often. and the downplaying of this is in turn a result of the moral crisis in this country, the trivialization of death, the dehumanization, the relativism and the erosion of values. i think our resolution is a good one, and it will help the russians solve this problem.
what a symbolic day we have today to talk about the trampling of human rights in russia. exactly 70 years ago, on september 17, 1939, the red army, in agreement with hitler, occupied 1/3 of the territory of poland, which was then fighting the german invader. stalin's army murdered thousands of poles, hundreds of thousands were deported to camps. on stalin's orders, thousands of polish officers were murdered in katyn. september 17th will forever remain for us the day of shame for stalinist russia. today's russia has no courage to face this terrible truth. its present authorities are looking for a peripheral explanation for the alliance with hitler. to this day, moscow refuses to release the archives of the katyn murder. in the history of many countries, terrible things have happened. the measure of a nation's maturity is its ability to confront its past and to condemn what is condemnable in its history. germany today is one example. only then will the past cease to weigh on today's russia and allow it to enter with a raised forehead into the ranks of free and democratic nations, only russia, which will get rid of its stalinist, terrible baggage once and for all, will become a state that will be able to stop fighting with its citizens who today are fighting in this country at the risk of their lives for the respect of fundamental freedoms and human rights. glory to those who fell victim to the murders of the secret. we'll remember you.
mr. chairman, please! i have the same doubts as my predecessor, congressman stevenson. kazakhstan is an important country, kazakhstan is making great efforts towards democratization. of course, it's not a model of democratic freedom yet, but the state of civil liberties in this country - i know this country a little bit because i've been there a few times - is much better than in most of the neighboring countries in the region, and there are fortunately not the problems that exist in russia, for example, that we talked about a moment ago. i share mr stevenson's view that the european parliament should not be using all its authority to express its opinion on one dramatic case. perhaps some clarification would be necessary on this matter, but certainly not a resolution by parliament, because we are devaluing the value of a resolution and parliament's voice will simply cease to be heard if it is fragmented on matters which do not deserve a general debate and a parliamentary resolution.
on behalf of the s-d group. in july this year, muhannad al hassani one of syria's leading human rights defenders was arrested. during the closed trial, which lawyers were not allowed to attend, he was accused of undermining national feelings and spreading false news. he has previously been questioned several times in connection with his human rights work and defence of political prisoners. he was also denied the right to leave the country. muhannad al hassani has been involved in monitoring the conditions in which the supreme court proceedings are conducted, which human rights watch considers to be non-compliant with international standards. we are concerned about the repression of human rights defenders in syria, especially in the context of the lack of progress on respect for human rights by the syrian authorities. the syrian authorities should be required to strictly comply with the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. given the political, economic and cultural links between syria and the european union and the important role that syria plays in promoting stability in the middle east, i am convinced that syria is capable of making progress in this area and thus contributing to the democratisation of the entire region.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission shares the concerns of the european parliament with regard to the human rights situation in syria. our assessment is that the situation has deteriorated over recent months, with more arbitrary detentions, harassment of human rights defenders and travel bans. the arrest on 28 august of mr muhannad al hassani – a well known lawyer, president of the national organisation for human rights in syria and a member of the damascus bar association for 15 years – is the most recent example. mr al hassani is a human rights defender and one might suspect that his arrest is politically motivated. the eu has already expressed its concerns to the syrian authorities. syria must observe its international commitments, in particular the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which syria is a state party. the commission, through its delegation in damascus, together with member states’ embassies, are discussing how to more effectively and efficiently act in defence of human rights’ defenders. clearly, we have to continue calling for actions to protect human rights defenders and to ensure the observation of trials at the supreme state security court. we must continue to support the civil society through our instruments, such as the non-state actors and the european instrument for democracy and human rights budget lines, and give moral support to the families. despite being important, these actions are, nevertheless, insufficient. we believe the eu would have a stronger leverage on syria if the association agreement was signed. i am glad that the presidency is contemplating its signature in the coming weeks. with this agreement we will establish a regular dialogue to advise on these issues and achieve better results.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 september 2009.
dear colleagues! i would like to say a few words about the referendum which took place last friday. i'm very pleased with his result. it was a great day for ireland and a great day for europe. (laughter) i wanted to tell you that i was just at the moment of the results, on the other side of europe, in sicily. and there the result was received as you have - with applause! so many places in europe were happy with the result in ireland. the irish have sent a clear signal that they want to remain at the heart of a united continent. a thousand thanks to the mhuintir na héireann. thank you very much and congratulations on the referendum. i said it in irish, maybe not exactly, but that's what it sounds like. the european union has proven that it can listen to the legitimate concerns of its citizens and respond to them. the guarantees for ireland proved satisfactory and convinced the voters that the treaty of lisbon would benefit their country. it was a victory for civil society and a good argument in the debate in the other member states. i would like to highlight the strong commitment of the employers' and trade unions' circles, farmers' and fishermen's organisations, as well as the church and community leaders. it helped win that referendum. i would also like to congratulate the irish government and the opposition, and my predecessor, pat cox, who led the 'ireland for europe' campaign. congratulations to pat cox! (laughter) i believe that the ratification process will continue and be successful in the other two member states. i have received assurances from the polish president that now that the irish referendum has been a success, he will sign the treaty of lisbon without delay. (laughter) i hope that once the czech constitutional court clarifies any remaining doubts president vaclav klaus will do the same. the lisbon treaty aims to prepare the european union for the challenges of the 21st century. we need to address our citizens' concerns about energy issues, rising unemployment, immigration and climate change. we're gonna have to work together, like we've done many times in the past. and we must not forget that the key to success is the principle of european solidarity. we have a lot of work to do. today, we have the tools we need. let's not hesitate, so use them. another important point about the irish referendum. we can't forget those who voted for us. it is our tradition to think of all europeans, respecting their views and their right to dissent. those who say "no" also want to tell us something, they want to convince us of something, and most importantly, they want to warn us against something. and we accept that warning and we will also take their voice into account, but we are very happy that such a clear majority of irish people have said 'yes' to a common europe. i am personally determined to work hard to make you feel that our common europe is also your europe. and we'll write her future story together. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ i wanted to go on to two other things. these are sad things. i would like to recall the great tragedy and thus commemorate the victims of the mudslides near messina, sicily. on behalf of the european parliament, i have already issued a statement expressing our condolences to the families, to the loved ones. i was in italy at the time and i also offered my condolences publicly, in the hall to our friends, partners, italians. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ before we begin, i would also like to remind you that today marks the first anniversary of the death of the russian human rights activist anna politkovskaya. her killers have yet to face justice. anna was not the only victim, however; let us also remember the memory of other social activists who were murdered in the last three years.
you probably did not listen to the whole of my speech! (applause)
you have received the final draft agenda approved by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 17 september 2009 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure. i should like to inform you that the report by mrs bauer on the organisation of working time for persons performing routine road transport activities has been rejected by a vote in committee. in addition, the following reports were not adopted in due time: mr böge's reports on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund: italy, the earthquake in abruzzo and on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: germany the telecommunications sector mrs haug's report draft amending budget 9/2009: earthquake in italy these four reports are therefore withdrawn from the agenda.
thank you very much for your attention. that's a good point. in any event, these reports will not be on the agenda because of the lack of translations. there wasn't enough time. i agree with you completely. i'm sorry, my statement was too forward. i called the rescheduling before chairman lamassoure spoke. i've called in two reshuffles. one council statement on the situation in guinea as the second item on the agenda. and second, a vote on any draft resolution on passenger compensation. i was wondering if there were any reports on these two cases. so we don't get the points wrong.
we have to play by the rules. it was difficult to complete the translations in such a short time. and the rule we apply in such a case is to postpone the case. i am also very sorry, but i would like us to proceed and conduct our discussions point by point, otherwise we have a huge confusion. i asked you two things at this time: a statement from the council on the situation in guinea and a vote on possible draft resolutions on compensation for passengers. are there any questions about this? there is no one. we're closing this discussion. (parliament adopted the two motions for resolutions)
colleagues, those remarks were very important. we must overcome these difficulties. i will ask the services whether it is possible to deliver some crucial translations by tomorrow, and then we can vote tomorrow as well. it is a very urgent decision. (applause)it is of course against our rules, but i think this time we should do it, so it will be organised.
the commission statement on freedom of information in italy remains on the agenda. i have also received another request from the ppe group not to table draft resolutions at the end of this debate.
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the outcome of the referendum in ireland. i should like to welcome the prime minister of sweden to the house today, who is representing the swedish presidency. we are very happy to have you with us, but there was a problem of formalities. i am very sorry about that. president barroso, it is great that you too are with us at such an important moment for our european union. thank you very much. you can see how difficult it is sometimes to go through all the formalities, but we are a very democratic institution, as you can see. it is always necessary to go through everything in order. then everything is ok and we can agree. we shall now go to the main item on this afternoon’s agenda. it is very important for us to have you in the chamber to discuss such an important topic.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very grateful to be here today and to have the opportunity to address the european parliament so soon after the positive result in the referendum in ireland. i pay tribute to brian cowen and his associates; i also say to all of those who have been engaged in the campaign, whatever their party or background, who contributed to this successful outcome: thank you for all your efforts. this was a good decision for ireland; it is a good decision for europe. i think that we can say that europe has listened to the criticism; i know that the legal guarantees offered by the european council were decisive in the referendum campaign; i can also say that the french and the czech presidency made efforts that were crucial to find a way to meet the concerns of the irish people. i think we should also say that it was very positive to have the very strong majority that was shown in the referendum, a convincing majority of 67.1% and with a high turnout, as high as 59%. so, all of this is very good news for europe. and of course i do not have to explain to this parliament the need to put the lisbon treaty in place; it will allow you to be more democratic, to be more efficient, and to be more transparent. it will in fact increase the influence of the eu in the international arena and make us stronger in meeting global challenges, and i know that you in this parliament will also be given a more significant role in the overall decision-making process; i welcome this development. therefore it is very important to put this lisbon treaty into force. the european council is united in its wish for the treaty to enter into force by the end of this year and the end of the swedish presidency. with the number of countries that have ratified it – we are now at 24 with full ratification – country number 25 might actually be poland, given the signals that we are now getting from the polish president. i spoke on saturday, after the referendum result from ireland was known, with the taoiseach brian cowen, who said they would need a couple of weeks to secure full parliamentary ratification, and therefore we can also say that country number 26 will finally be ireland. that leaves us just the czech republic to have the full 27 ratifications. to that end, we have had a meeting with the three institutions here in brussels today: the presidency, the head of the commission, jose manuel barroso, and the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek. the czech prime minister, jan fischer, was also with us and we tried to asses this situation; you might know that 17 senators have appealed to the constitutional court in the czech republic with a complaint concerning the lisbon treaty, to see if it is in accordance with the czech constitution. jan fischer told us that this is an independent court which is now working quickly to take the decision whether or not to bring up this petition. we do not foresee today an exact date when they will give this decision, and we are of course awaiting that signal; we hope to see it in just a week or a couple of weeks. that is the message from the czech republic today: an independent court taking a decision in maybe a week’s time, or it may be two weeks before we know how they will proceed. as president of the european council, i am responsible for moving the work of the union forward. i strongly feel that we have no time to lose. therefore i have decided that while awaiting the clarifications in the czech republic, firstly we will continue the preparations for the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and secondly, when there is clarity on when the lisbon treaty will come into force, when there is clarity, i will begin consultations on the nominations of the new president of the european council and the high representative and secretary-general of the council. preparing this will not only be a matter for the presidency: this is a matter for three institutions at the same time. i will therefore say that it is very important for us to work closely and constructively together with the commission and the european parliament in this process. i will again renew my offer to this parliament to cooperate when we are making our efforts to get the lisbon treaty finally in place. let us also remember that despite these institutional matters this swedish presidency – and this autumn – is, of course, very much influenced by the need to move on climate change, the need to move on the financial crisis, the worry in europe that we need a policy for job creation – a lot of important matters that need to be addressed. that sums up for us the need to be active, to put in place the lisbon treaty, as i have just said, and to stay active as a presidency on these very important matters for our voters.
prime minister, thank you for your very clear message regarding all that is going on after the vote in ireland, and also for the very clear message on cooperation between the european parliament and the presidency of the european council. we have just started discussions with mrs malmström, a former member of the european parliament, whom we remember very well. thank you very much for your proposal and very clear message.
president of the commission. − mr president, the irish people took a very important and historic decision last weekend: a very important decision for ireland; a very important decision for europe. the irish people, by a resounding majority, recognised the importance of the lisbon treaty, a treaty that offers a more democratic and effective europe, a treaty that gives us the right platform to deliver the modern, successful european union our citizens wish to see. the treaty now has the democratic endorsement of all 27 member states. all the member states of the european union, by parliament or by popular vote, have approved the treaty. this is indeed a major achievement. it shows how the enlarged europe is able to share a vision for our future and a determination to move forward. it was decided democratically. now what we need is the ratification procedures to be concluded. i am pleased to see that president kaczyński of poland will be signing very soon. as he has always said to me, he will be ready to do it when the irish have voted ‘yes’. this is indeed very good news. of course we have to see the completion of the process in the czech republic. we need to respect the constitutional proceedings in that country, as we have done in other countries, but once these procedures are concluded i see no reason why proceedings cannot be concluded swiftly. this is important for europe as a whole, but it is particularly important for the commission. i want to see the new commission in place, a commission in accordance with the lisbon treaty, and i want to see it in office as quickly as possible. a long period with a caretaker commission is in nobody’s interest. i am ready to start the formation of the next commission as soon as the council is ready to clarify the legal basis definitively, and also to nominate the high representative who will become vice-president of the commission. i appreciate all the efforts made by the swedish presidency, and personally by prime minister reinfeldt, to reach a swift conclusion to all these processes. the initiative that prime minister reinfeldt took today at a meeting with me and with you, president buzek, and the video-conference with prime minister fischer was a very good and useful initiative. i know also that this parliament has worked tirelessly to promote the lisbon treaty. parliament and commission have worked hand in hand to explain why it is the right treaty for europe. i am proud of the role that the commission played in giving the irish people the information they needed to make up their minds. now that we have a real probability of having the lisbon treaty finally ratified and the whole process completed, we can turn our attention to the work to implement the treaty. i would like to take this occasion to highlight four areas where we are working hard to ensure that we can hit the ground running when the treaty comes into force. one of the most important and the most complex has to be the innovations regarding the european external action service. we have been working hard to think through some of the practical details of how we can make the european external action service a real success. this work will now accelerate and, in the same spirit as the remarks made just now by the swedish presidency, i want to state the european commission’s determination to work with parliament to achieve that objective. i know that elmar brok has been leading on this subject here in parliament. i understand that you will debate this at the next plenary. this is excellent timing since this will take place shortly before the same question is discussed at the european council. i think that report is an excellent basis for discussions between our institutions, and i welcome the strong community spirit that inspires the report. this is exactly the spirit that i will uphold in the preparation for the important innovation that is the european external service. another point is comitology. it is an important aspect of how the european union does its business. the treaty of lisbon introduces new rules making the system more rational and transparent. we need to fix exactly how the new system should work. but let me be clear: many of these decisions are of great political importance and deserve proper democratic scrutiny and real political ownership. so we need to maintain the strong role played by parliament today. another important democratic element is the new mechanisms to allow national parliaments a direct say on subsidiarity. we need to put these mechanisms in the broader context of the excellent relations with national parliaments built up by the commission, and indeed the european parliament, over the last few years. finally, i would like to mention the european citizens’ initiative. this is one of the most striking innovations on the treaty’s democratic agenda and one on which this parliament has already worked in detail. margot wallström has been leading our work in developing a green paper to launch a consultation as soon as possible, with the goal of seeing this opportunity in citizens’ hands within a year of entry into force. when i spoke to this parliament last month, i set out what i saw as the greatest challenges and the great opportunities facing europe today. with the lisbon treaty we will have the right springboard to help us make those goals a reality, and i am sure that with this constructive partnership between our institutions we will make it a success. that is the commitment of the european commission.
president barroso, thank you for your speech, and for your readiness to cooperate in the implementation of the lisbon treaty. the cooperation between parliament and the council during the videoconference with prime minister jan fischer of the czech republic was also excellent, so thank you once again, prime minister fredrik reinfeldt, for organising that video conference.
under the ‘blue card’ rule you must ask a question, not make a statement. the wording is very strict, and it is very important that this rule is respected.
thank you for answering the question, but, colleagues, i will read you the rule because we must know about it. ‘the president may give the floor to members who indicate, by raising a blue card, their wish to put to another member, during that member’s speech’ – not later – ‘a question of no longer than half a minute’s duration’ – a question only – ‘where the speaker agrees and where the president is satisfied that this will not lead to a disruption of the debate.’ if blue cards are raised too often, then i will not give you the floor because it will lead to disruption of our debate. you must be aware of that. raise your card in time and only for questions that take half a minute; answers must not exceed one minute. these are our rules, and we must keep to them very strictly.
mr. chairman, please! the double referendum in ireland on the so-called lisbon treaty has set a dangerous precedent. there were signs that if ireland did not accept this document, it would have to vote to enforce it. the campaign used a full range of pressure measures, from concessions such as guarantees of non-interference by the union in internal legislation on ethics, religion and economics, through threats such as the loss of its own commissioner, to blackmail to marginalise and exclude ireland from eu structures. all these measures, in the context of the fears fuelled by the crisis, have produced a known result. using the huge financial resources of many of the eu agitators, the treaty was even promised jobs in exchange for its acceptance, without focusing on its merits. political commentators point to the undemocratic methods and arrogance of the eu's political elite. in the light of the double standards that have been used, i call for a second, third referendum in ireland and for the possibility of a second vote on this document in the national parliaments of the eu member states.
mr. chairman, please! the irish have said yes to the european union. now it's time for the two biggest brakes that we have in europe and that the irish have really already compromised. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the polish and czech republic, enough of the european union being ignored! let us not waste the time we have so little, and in which we should do so much! i would like to appeal to donald tusk, the prime minister of the polish government, to introduce a charter of fundamental rights in our country for obvious reasons. so far, we politicians have said that there are not enough instruments, there are not enough regulations to allow us to act. now we're in this room facing a great task. with the new treaty just around the corner, we must put the european union on the path to a common and rapid exit from the crisis, to action for the people and to strengthening the european union's position in the world. we need to fight wage inequality, for better and equal access to education, culture and health care. the new rules are meant to help us preserve diversity in the european union, but we need to introduce more equality, which is so lacking among european union citizens today. our goal should also be to prove to all those who were there that we can work for them too, and their absence was and is a greater motivation for us to work. ladies and gentlemen, i am 35 years old and i expect more dynamic action. i expect that we will reach agreement with the european commission and the european council more quickly on procedural, staff and substantive issues. we're going to present the great european projects. i also ask the president of the european parliament, the bureau and the group chairmen: how far along are we in the preparations? when will we be ready to implement the lisbon treaty?
mr president, madam minister, madam chairman of the commission! instead of using big words - and i think there's an inflation of big words in the european parliament - it's worth asking why the irish said yes, when last year they said no. i think it is an oversimplification to say that the crisis has pushed the irish into the arms of the lisbon treaty. it seems that the main reason the irish, the citizens of the green island, supported the treaty is what they got from the european union in the meantime. ireland has guaranteed itself and all the member states its own national commissioner. that's what we have ireland to thank for. the union also guaranteed that it would not interfere with taxation in ireland. and for that, we thank dublin. it is hoped that this will be the final withdrawal of germany and france from plans to unify taxes within the union. finally, brussels promised not to interfere with the republic of ireland's legislation on moral and civil matters, including the protection of the life of the unborn. the irish government and the irish people should be congratulated on this success in the negotiations. and funny, in a way, is the joy of those who are celebrating the result of the referendum in ireland. in many cases, these same people were against holding referendums in their member states.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption of the treaty of lisbon marks the end of a historic process of major enlargement of the european union with ten new member states. this process began in the 1990s and culminates in the acceptance of institutional changes that adapt the union to the new reality. the adoption of the treaty is a new stage and an opportunity for the union to take a step forward. the institutions that we will be able to create are only an opportunity, and it is up to us to make the most of that opportunity. it is also a good moment to prove to citizens who are sceptical of the european project that the union is alive, changing and, above all, responding to people's problems. the most important thing is to propose a new policy to meet the challenges we face. but there is a fear that instead of focusing on this, we will be dominated by discussions about formal and personal solutions: who to choose for what positions? the european union must not allow national egoism, which can grow stronger in times of crisis, to undermine the opportunity that the union now has. the first thing to do is to convince citizens that the union is not just about elites, posts and red tape, but also about new and more effective ways of solving their problems.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon treaty has enabled europe to tackle challenges that go far beyond the internal problems of its member states. will she be willing to do that? it's hard to say. the european citizens will certainly have a lot to say about this. but beyond the treaty, the union must also have the will to act, a presence in the world, a sense of responsibility for the world, its stability and development. its security and development also depend on it. we must confront the often-repeated metaphor of europe as a country that is safe, prosperous, democratic, human rights-loving, but that is introverted, that turns its back on the world. the lisbon treaty forces us to better understand the challenges we face. in irish, "so" is a way of saying that a united europe is now looking at poland and the czech republic. i have no doubt that the treaty of lisbon will soon enter into force. but while we wait for the signatures of presidents kaczyński and klaus, let's think about how the discussion during the current reform went, let's draw conclusions from what happened. let's prepare for the future! let's prepare for the next reform, because the great project we are creating - the european union - is an unfinished idea. and i just want to say one last thing: thank you, ireland!
in writing. president lech kaczyński, contrary to a public promise, has not yet signed the treaty of lisbon. the delay has been over a year and a half. it is unjustified, reprehensible, even illegal. on 1 april 2008, the president was authorised by the sejm to ratify the treaty of lisbon. according to the constitution of the republic, the president has to sign it. it's not a question of his good will or his willingness, but his duty. if he doesn't do it, he's breaking the law. by making the signing of the treaty dependent on the decision of citizens of another country, president kaczyński has made poland a country incapable of taking a sovereign decision and has offended the patriotic feelings of poles. in ireland, the supporters of a strong, united union have won. in poland, a president who has almost no support in the public is on the verge of victory. was he holding back for personal reasons, afraid of losing a hard-line anti-union electorate, including one associated with radio maria? if so, it's high time we started impeachment proceedings. according to the constitution of the republic of poland, there are two possible ways. the state court or the application of article 131 (4) of the polish constitution (recognition by the national assembly of the permanent incapacity of the president of the republic to perform his duties on grounds of ill-health). the poles don't want to hold back the development of the european union. no, it's the opposite. they want to initiate beneficial changes in europe. president kaczynski has no right to interfere.
in writing. although the union and its institutions function well without the lisbon treaty, its non-adoption would create the image of a community unable to agree and take important decisions. this treaty introduces new voting rules, where the strength of the states' vote is explicitly dependent on the number of inhabitants. compared to the current nice voting system, large countries, including germany, gain and medium countries, including poland, which benefited from the nice vote, lose. the creation of a new institution, the president of the european council, commonly referred to as the eu president, raises some concerns about the division of powers. let us remember that there are already: the president of the european commission and the president of the parliament, and the head of state who holds the presidency of the union - the so-called presidency - and the high representative for foreign affairs. in addition to introducing the position of high representative, popularly known as the union minister for foreign affairs, the treaty strengthens the union's foreign policy by establishing common diplomacy. it also sets out the possibility of withdrawal from the union, the possibility of a citizens' initiative and the need to create a european energy policy, which is very important for the future of europe. we look forward to the final ratification of the treaty!
in writing. – irish 'yes' to the lisbon treaty is a good news for europe. there is no doubt that the treaty will serve for the benefit of the european union by simplifying its decision making process and creating a better field for its effectiveness. in contrary to what its opponents say the treaty does not bring any major revolution. never before however so much has depended on the process of implementation. the devil is in the detail. with its innovations the treaty can increase for instance visibility of the eu on the international scene. much depends however on the final arrangements that will determine the character of the new instruments, like the european external action service. it is therefore essential that the european parliament takes its due role in the process of creating new institutional setting foreseen by the lisbon treaty, wherever possible. it will make this process more transparent, increase its legitimacy and finally it will serve, i believe,for its better outcome.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, we move from one item to the next. this is a very serious and important subject which the honourable members have raised and chosen to put on the agenda. on monday 28 september more than 100 people were killed in conakry, guinea, when members of the guinean security forces shot into crowds of demonstrators. guinean citizens had gathered in a stadium in the capital to demonstrate against the presumed intention of the guinean military interim leader, captain moussa dadis camara, to run for president. the final death toll is still unknown, as the soldiers also collected the bodies rather than allow them to be counted at public morgues. at this stage we do not know the real dimension of these tragic events. the number of injured people is said to be at least 1 200, and eye witnesses have reported that soldiers raped women on the streets of conakry. during the violent repression, several opposition leaders were wounded and temporarily arrested. the number of protestors still under detention is also unknown; the houses of opposition leaders were ransacked and shops looted by uniformed men. in a tv statement the following day, captain camara expressed his condolences with the families of those killed and visited some of the injured. he proclaimed two days of national mourning and pledged to investigate the violence. he distanced himself from the killings by saying that he was not in control of the elements of the military responsible for the atrocities. the european union immediately and forcefully condemned these brutal and shocking events. a presidency declaration, a statement by high representative solana and a statement by eu commissioner de gucht were issued the following day. we will have to insist on the liberation of the arrested prisoners and a thorough investigation of the events. the violence in guinea received worldwide condemnation. the un security council was briefed last wednesday on the situation in the country. the african union condemned the events and decided to prepare a report on possible measures to be taken. the economic community of west african states (ecowas) called for a full international inquiry into the matter. parliament, as you know, condemned the unconstitutional change of power, and in its resolution of 15 january 2009 called for respect for human rights and a rapid return to constitutional order. the eu decided to open consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, and eu development aid – apart from humanitarian aid and support for democratic transition – was frozen. we have not been alone; our international partners have acted in line with us. the african union and ecowas decided to suspend guinea until it established a democratically elected parliament or government. an international contact group on guinea co-chaired by the african union and ecowas, and with participation by the european union, was put into place. in march, the military junta agreed with the opposition to have elections before the end of 2009, which gave reasonable hope for a peaceful and democratic transition. captain camara gave his assurances that none of the coup leaders would stand for political office. a national transitional council was to guide the transition process and prepare the necessary modification of the constitution in order to help elections. what can we do, then, to prevent further violence, and how can we help the people of guinea in their legitimate desire for democracy, the rule of law, peace and development? well, there are three main areas of action. first of all we should maintain and reinforce political pressure on the regime in conakry, notably in the context of the international group. captain camara’s decision not to run could allow calm to return. the nomination of the president of burkina faso, mr blaise compaoré, as facilitator in the crisis on behalf of ecowas and the international contact group is a very positive sign, and the european union has welcomed this appointment via the presidency. we hope that his mediation will contribute to a secure, peaceful and lasting solution to the situation in guinea. secondly, the option of targeted sanctions against individuals responsible for violence could be further explored. we will need to coordinate this approach with the african union and other international and bilateral partners. the upcoming eu-african ministerial troika in addis ababa and the meeting on guinea on 12 october in abuja will be important in this respect. thirdly, we should continue to provide humanitarian aid to the civilian population and support the democratic transition process. the latter will nevertheless depend on the credible willingness of the transitional authorities of guinea to re-engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue with a clear commitment to refraining from further violence and to respecting the human rights and political freedoms of its citizens. we will spare no efforts to help the people of guinea in this critical moment and we are determined to support a return to civilian, constitutional and democratic government through free and transparent elections. we encourage all stakeholders in guinea to refrain from violence and to make a peaceful and democratic transition.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. minister! the crisis in guinea is, in my view, a reflection of a wider problem that unfortunately exists in many african countries. the problem is the weakness of democratic institutions and the underdevelopment or, at times, the absence of mechanisms characteristic of mature civil societies. this is important for europe not only because of our commitment to our values, but also for purely pragmatic reasons. we often talk about the effectiveness of development cooperation. and that's not surprising, because we're the largest donor of this aid and we have to be interested in how we use it effectively. but we must accept that we will not make progress in terms of efficiency if the countries benefiting from development cooperation are not able to give the minimum guarantees that this aid is being used well. and it turns out that such guarantees are difficult to build without democracy and civil society. mr. camara accused france yesterday of humiliating africans by severing ties with him. that's not true, man. france has not humiliated africans. mr. camara himself humiliated his own people and africans. he's humiliated by allowing the killing, allowing the rape. the reaction of france and the french government was justified and correct. and our position should be just as firm and firm. it's a paradox, but the situation is quite simple. we cannot afford to ignore the violence that has occurred in guinea. we must demand an end to the use of violence. like the minister, i think it's very good that the president of burkina faso is on a mission and we wish him well. let's hope it works. we should also support the african union, which has announced sanctions if civilian rule is not restored. we know that sweden is committed to the process of building democracy. we know that this is the real priority of the presidency in terms of development policy. we also know that the swedish government has both experience and success in this area. i therefore hope and believe that this commitment in a case as difficult and extreme as guinea will be effective and bear good fruit.
mr. chairman, please! i am speaking out in defense of the polish minority in lithuania, which has been discriminated against recently. the painful paradox is that poles in lithuania, who in some regions make up the majority of the population, were better off before lithuania joined the eu than they are now, when the country is a member of the eu. by october 14, the local government of the solecznick region is to remove signs with polish street names, which is against european standards and the european charter of local self-government. in march 2008, the possibilities for polish education were restricted on the basis of lithuanian law. in the last year and a half, four schools and 45 classrooms have been closed, and another 107 classrooms are threatened with closure. polish names are forcibly changed to look like lithuanian names. finally, many poles still have not been given back their property, property seized by the communists, by the soviet union after 1939 and 1944. i appeal to the european parliament to defend poles in lithuania in accordance with european standards of human rights and minority rights.
mr. chairman, please! i regret to inform you that in poland the rights of people who perform in the catholic church are being violated. despite the apostates' wishes, their personal information is not deleted from the parish archives, but is kept. this is stated in the instruction on the protection of personal data in the activities of the catholic church in poland. in this section, it is based not on the current personal data protection act, but on the provisions of the code of canon law. how is it possible that in poland, which claims to be a state governed by the rule of law, canon law takes precedence over the law enacted by parliament? why does the code of canon law regulate the rights of non-catholic citizens? how is it possible that the inspector general for personal data protection has no powers of control over church archives? the explanation is simple: poland is a religious state. the european parliament should respond to this.
i would like to refer to the statement made by the polish and german bishops on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war. at a time when many people are thinking of those painful events, we must pay special attention to the younger generation, so that they can learn the truth of history in a proper and reliable way and build a common future on it. it is essential to recall the first letter from the polish bishops to the german bishops in 1965, which called for reconciliation and the building of partnerships between our two countries. today, as then, we are concerned with building trust and friendly relations between our nations. but we're on this path of reconciliation together in a different place. together we are building a europe of common interest, a europe of cooperation, of friendship, a europe of values that are based on the christian roots that were the founding fathers' attitude in creating europe. in the interest of our common future, therefore, we must pay particular attention to the warnings and indications contained in the joint polish-german bishops' statement.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the last nine years, nearly 80 airlines have gone bankrupt in the european union. it said that skyeurope, a low-cost airline, had gone bankrupt during the recent holiday season, leaving thousands of customers with their tickets already booked. this situation is repeating itself. of course, the problem is not with private jet owners, but with people who are often less well-off and who have been saving money for months to buy a ticket to fly abroad. i think that in this situation the european parliament, as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, must insist very strongly that the european commission adopt the principles of legal protection for passengers - customers, and therefore also financial protection. the creation of a special reserve for compensation for passengers of bankrupt airline customers can prevent situations such as the last decade, when money was definitively lost by at least several thousand people. this is the concrete action that the citizens of the member states of the european union expect from us.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is obvious and should be taken as a starting point in this much-needed discussion initiated by mr brian simpson that airlines' obligations to passengers do not expire even in the event of the bankruptcy of the operator. that is why i was surprised to hear skyeurope's spokesman explain. ronald schranz expressed his regret at the inconvenience to the passengers. i stress the word "inconvenience". at the same time, it stated that customers of the bankrupt company waiting at foreign airports must themselves look for alternative ways of returning. according to the spokesman, the case involved several thousand people, but he was unable to give an exact number. for the skyeurope representative, it was just statistics. but he forgot that this number included many thousands of personal tragedies of passengers who could not reach their homes, families or workplaces. the above example shows that the matter must be settled as soon as possible. skyeurope was a publicly traded company, so we had more information about it. it's different with other low-cost lines. perhaps the recent nightmare in bratislava will be repeated at another european airport. a heated debate is under way to propose various solutions to this important problem. it's a special fund set up by airline subsidies, or what's called bankruptcy insurance. these are valuable initiatives, but they do have an impact on ticket prices. in times of crisis, we need a procedure that helps passengers on the one hand, but does not complicate the already difficult financial situation of airlines on the other. i therefore ask the commissioner a question and a proposal: could not the idea of 'sky solidarity', which would include the principle of all airlines being jointly responsible for passengers, be a partial solution? it is solidarity - a concept which is particularly close to me as a pole - that should be the answer and the challenge that can be applied immediately. my proposal is that passengers of a bankrupt airline who are at the airport should be able to use another airline's aircraft going in the same direction, provided, of course, that there are free seats on board. any settlement would be between the operators concerned. i would ask the commissioner to respond.
madam chairman, mr chairman of the commission! about a month ago, one of the low-cost airlines went bankrupt. skyeurope filed for bankruptcy at that time. although the airline's bankruptcy had been announced by market analysts for some time, skyeurope had sold tickets for its flights on the day before the bankruptcy was filed, with the result that hundreds of passengers of the airline were not only deprived of the opportunity to make their planned trips, but above all were exposed to the financial losses caused by the collapse of the airline. the company had explicitly informed its customers in an official press release that they could expect to lose the money invested in tickets. the skyeurope example clearly shows that we have not yet developed legislation in our common europe to protect airline consumers from the negative consequences of airline bankruptcies. the problem is so serious that since the year 2000, 77 airlines have gone bankrupt worldwide. for example, the polish airline air polonia went bankrupt in 2004, so i expect the commission to present rules to protect consumers from the negative effects of possible bankruptcies of airlines.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i listened carefully to the speeches of mr lehne and the other member who took part in the debate. it is true that the regulation on the statute of the european company is supplemented by a directive on employee involvement and that the deadline for implementation was 8 october 2004, the date on which the regulation on the european company entered into force. however, only eight member states took the necessary measures within the deadline and the transposition of the workers' involvement directive was completed in all member states only at the beginning of 2006. we were therefore obliged to postpone the report in order to allow the european company regulation to be in force in all member states for a sufficient period to enable an indicative report on its application to be drawn up. these are the reasons for the delay. i can only agree with president lehne that we should make up for lost time and give the european union concrete answers on the subject of european society, starting from the middle of next year, with concrete indications that can really give answers to the demands coming not only from parliament but also from the economic and working world of the entire european union.
in writing. the smooth functioning of the internal market depends not only on the elimination of barriers to trade between countries but also on the reorganisation of the structure of production at community level. to this end, the european commission proposed in the 1970s the creation of a legal framework for the european company. in 2001, regulation 2157/2001 on the statute for a european company was adopted. the idea did not have the desired results, and to date, just over 100 companies have become a european company. however, this idea has evolved to include small and medium-sized enterprises in the european company, as a result of the commission's march 2008 proposal on the statute for a european private company. in view of the negative experience with the european company, it is very important that the commission has a permanent oversight of the application of regulation 2157/2001. to this end, the regulation itself provides that, at the latest five years after its entry into force, the commission shall present a report on its application. the regulation entered into force in 2004. i would therefore like to ask when the commission will present the report and what action will it take on the basis of the analysis that has been made?
the next item is the commission statement on freedom of information in italy.
colleagues, if there is going to be such a discussion in the chamber i shall not give permission for blue-card questions. it is my decision. i am sorry, but we must be much calmer about the whole issue, otherwise the rule will be no blue cards. i do not want the sitting to be disturbed. please behave properly.
i'm not going to let you go. it wasn't really a formal request, so please follow the rules of the house. ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to give a voice to every person who raises a blue card, i have that authority and we need to move forward with our discussion.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. italy is not the only great and wonderful country. the european parliament is made up of 27 great countries. it's about what mr sassoli said. i think there is a paradox that i, an anti-communist opposition activist who never thought i could agree with anyone who has his roots in that camp, will have to agree with the italian president who warns against bringing internal disputes to the european parliament. i am referring to the double standards that some issues are of interest to certain political groups in our parliament and they insist on bringing these issues to the floor of our parliament, while others are swept under the carpet. perhaps similar situations existed in other lands. recently in poland, the minister in office did everything, using all instruments, to keep the president of the state television in office. in the end, he failed, but i did not hear some political groups asking for a debate on this issue. similar situations occur in other lands. so if we want to avoid being subjected to these double standards, then let's treat everyone equally. if there's a problem, let's talk about it at this time of day. if we don't do that, it means there's some political context, there's some political game. i believe that the demands made here by prime minister verhofstadt, that is, that certain formal-legal, legislative and legal solutions be imposed from above on individual member states, are nothing but the introduction of a far-reaching, excessive european integration, as if by a back door, over the heads of the citizens, over, in fact, the will of public opinion expressed in the elections in which governments are elected. the european union is still a community of nations, of nation states. but let us avoid taking shortcuts in a situation where we, as if above the heads of the national states, are funding their savings. mr. chairman, please! in conclusion, i think this is an internal matter of italy, perhaps difficult, but the italians should solve it themselves. the european parliament is not the place to solve these problems.
i would like to inform mr salatto that unfortunately i cannot give the floor to everyone who wishes to put a blue-card question. it would make the debate overrun. i am sorry.
in writing. - in the face of a tragedy in which people lose loved ones and often their entire life's work and a beautiful, ancient city is reduced to rubble, it is a gesture of pure decency to support such a motion. the eu solidarity fund is an example of how the union can act effectively together when one of its members is faced with a similar tragedy. the eu solidarity fund, which provides rapid and immediate assistance, is a positive signal for its citizens.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! the subsequent g20 summit in pittsburgh confirmed the gradual stabilisation of the economic situation, but the problems that individual economies may face should still be borne in mind. the meeting was an opportunity to confirm the determination of the countries to reform the financial regulatory system. the biggest danger we cannot afford is further unemployment, falling demand and production cuts. the principles proposed in pittsburgh should be the foundation of a common world economic development. the summit confirmed the need to continue work on the establishment of institutions and instruments for supervision and monitoring in the various areas of the global market.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the resolution because i think it contains many very good words about the causes and effects of the present difficult situation in the developing countries. i would like to stress in particular that the current economic crisis is the result not only of the collapse of financial markets but also of the earlier food and energy crises. i believe that action is needed to make more rapid and efficient use of the funds made available by the developed countries. this is especially important when we consider that rich countries are currently struggling with internal problems, such as budgetary or time constraints. i would like to stress once again that the most important thing is to simplify procedures so that the funds flowing from rich countries to poor countries do not get lost in a sea of red tape.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 8 october 2009.
fellow workers! before we begin the session, i'd like to say a few words. as you know, ten days ago, the president of poland, lech kaczyński, signed the treaty of lisbon. i believe we are one step closer to completing the ratification process. i am also convinced that the czech republic will soon complete its ratification. i would also like to inform you that this week, on tuesday at 3 p.m., we will have our first hour-long debate with the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso. this debate is a major institutional change. it will enable the european parliament to work much better with the commission. i have worked on this with the political group chairmen and president barroso and i am delighted that this new procedure will become a regular feature of the strasbourg plenary sessions. i believe it will enliven our debates and broaden the scope of our discussion. ladies and gentlemen, on october 10th, we celebrated the international day for the abolition of the death penalty. since 2007, it has also been the date of the european day against the death penalty. we demonstrate our determination and commitment against this inhuman practice. we also present our position in favour of a global moratorium in line with the declaration of parliament in its 2007 resolution and the resolution of the united nations general assembly. in a press statement on 9 october, i underlined, on behalf of myself and the european parliament, our commitment to a europe without the death penalty and to its abolition worldwide. it's our shared responsibility. unfortunately, there is still a country in europe where the death penalty is still being practiced and carried out. we condemn the execution of death sentences in iran and express particular concern about the iranians recently sentenced to death following the demonstrations surrounding the june presidential elections. in particular, we oppose the death sentences imposed on minors and recall that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, which explicitly prohibits the execution of minors. we must continue to oppose the death penalty with determination and speak out about its use around the world. we are concerned about the recent events in china, where 12 people were sentenced to death in connection with ethnic riots and violence in urumqi, xinjiang. despite the serious crimes committed during the june riots, we call on the chinese authorities to uphold the standards of fair trial. we are also concerned about the sentencing and execution of death penalty in the united states, particularly in ohio, where several executions by lethal injection have been postponed after several failed attempts. i would like to reiterate our call on every country that still uses the death penalty to withdraw it from its criminal code or, until such withdrawal, to declare a moratorium on the imposition and execution of death sentences. (laughter)
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 15 october 2009. monday:
there was no request for a debate on the mandates of members. so, we're going to vote on this tomorrow. if there was a request, we could have handled it differently. also, in the absence of any conclusion, there is no discussion on this matter. ♪ tuesday, the same ♪ wednesday:i received a request from the ppe group to change the title of the draft resolutions on freedom of information in italy and the other member states of the european union. the revised title would be freedom of information in the european union.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr. chairman, please! the world food and agriculture organization (fao) recently released a report stating that global food production must increase by at least 70% by 2050, or else humanity will face starvation. it's a confirmation of an obvious truth. it is well known that the world's population is growing, but the amount of land available for cultivation is decreasing. the european union's agricultural policy, on the other hand, under the guise of market rules and improving agricultural competitiveness, consists of systematically reducing agricultural production in almost all its sectors. in the context of global trends, this policy could prove deadly and could cause famine in the near future. i believe that there is a fundamental change in the political approach to agriculture and its problems in the european union. we really need to take care of our continent's food security. enough of the policy of restricting agriculture, because it is a short-sighted and unimaginative policy.
thank you, madam! i'd like a written request on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! in view of the increasing number of north-south transport links on the continent and the lack of transport corridors, i would like to stress the importance of the cetc road 65 project. it covers road, water, inland and rail transport in the area connecting the baltic sea to the adriatic sea and running from sweden through poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary to croatia. the corridor would be the axis of regional development for the whole area through which it runs. it would be fully intermodal and have a sustainable environmental impact. it would have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of a large part of the european union by increasing the speed and turnover of goods between the countries of the baltic sea region and the countries of the mediterranean and adriatic sea region. as a member of parliament, but also as a specialist with many years of experience in the transport sector, i would like to ask you to support the central european corridor project. it fully deserves to be included in the network of the already existing pan-european tnt transport corridors.
mr. chairman, please! in the second half of september this year, russian and belarusian military exercises were held under the code name zapad-2009, ladoga-2009. it was the largest such project on russia's western borders since the end of the cold war. the last time a landing exercise of this scale took place was in 1981 at the height of the cold war. interestingly, the zapad-2009 phase began on september 18, which is almost exactly the 70th anniversary of the soviet invasion of poland. part of the exercises took place at the entrance to the gulf of gdańsk, and ladoga-2009 was widely considered by experts to be preparations for a potential attack on the baltic states and finland. despite the openly hostile moves of the russian federation, both the european union and nato remain passive. to this day, they have not developed a defense strategy in the event of an invasion from the east, because some of the countries, members of nato, consider this a politically sensitive issue. in the context of the forthcoming eu-russia summit and in the light of the facts cited, i have asked the council of the european union to take up this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i am a member of the committee on culture, but also of the committee on the development of the internal market. in this role, i call for further, very thorough consultation and swift action on the digitization of books and the role of google. we cannot allow our market, our entire european heritage, to be dominated by one company. we need to develop common, good legal instruments, primarily between the european union and the united states, but also with other countries in this globalized world today, that take care of our authors and our publishers. this is the question of our european literature, our culture, our identity. we must develop it and protect it together. these are our european authors and our european publishers. the problem of digitization is too big to be solved overseas. this law must be made by us together and we must give this issue the utmost attention.
thank you, lord! i wanted to explain to you that i too asked the authorities in brussels to increase vigilance around the european parliament because we had such a sad accident recently. the brussels authorities have responded very positively to the european parliament's request. there are also discussions on this subject.
madam president! the word "schengen" has been changed in this room by all the cases. most of us would agree that this is a great success, for the people of the new countries, the new members of the european union, this is a measurable success of integration. but at the same time, it's a huge commitment that these countries, the baltic countries, poland, slovakia, romania and bulgaria, have made. the new member states are responsible for the eastern land border of the european union and are fulfilling that responsibility to the full. but i'd like to say something that wasn't discussed in this room. the schengen agreement, which we are proud of and which we admire, is a nightmare and a source of great difficulty for all those who have been granted a visa policy, the so-called schengen visas. i am talking about the people of ukraine, moldova and other eastern countries who want to come to the european union. schengen visas are very expensive, and the people in these countries have to pay about what they earn in a month. they're subjected to the humiliating process of getting these visas, standing in gigantic queues. this is schengen, too, for them schengen means shame, wall and problem. i would like to see the schengen evaluation system at least mention what is related to the visa policy, evaluate it, evaluate how, perhaps in some way justified, but we do not know for how long, we have introduced such instruments that separate us from the many people who naturally want to come to our area, this schengen area. and while that's not the subject of this report, i wanted those words to be heard here in the debate today.
madam president! it is fortunate that the discussion we are having today on the schengen acquis comes at a time when the european union, including the european parliament, is beginning a major debate on the so-called stockholm programme, a major project concerning areas of vital importance to the citizens of the european union, such as justice, freedom and security. the two elements of this programme, namely the freedom and security of the citizens of the european union, are perfectly in line with the assessment of the schengen project. we must ask ourselves why the european union was created and why we are so concerned about the success of this great project. after all, it was not made for politicians, international organizations, or individual nations. it was actually created for the good of the citizens. the welfare of citizens, their freedom and liberty, but also the highest standards of security that should be guaranteed to them, are therefore among the main elements of the work that the institutions of the european union should be concerned with. it is therefore not right that we are discussing the excluded schengen area without linking this discussion to the evaluation of the community programme on migration, the community visa programme and the community programme on cooperation with the so-called neighbouring countries. only a joint discussion and assessment of the situation can lead to the right conclusions. that is why parliament needs to be involved in these decisions, and i hope that it will be. therefore, i am convinced that the schengen acquis, which showed acceptance, although it was reserved at the beginning that without the entry of sis ii it is impossible to extend the schengen area to the ten countries adopted in 2004. it showed that it was possible, that nothing tragic had happened. the only thing that needs to be done now is to ensure that the mechanisms to improve and consolidate the functioning of this system are developed as soon as possible, in cooperation with the european parliament, of course. i therefore have great respect for carlos coelho and i fully support his report.
madam president! due to delays and problems in completing sis ii and the forecasts that it will not be fully operational until the end of 2011, or even as some claim in 2015, it was decided to carry out tests of sis ii to check its functionality by the end of this year. if sis ii is found to be defective, an alternative plan is supposedly in place to improve sis i. the questions therefore arise: is the european commission prepared to implement the alternative plan, how will the issue of the investments made by the member states that incurred the costs associated with the purchase of equipment to operate the new system be resolved and whether it will be used in the alternative plan, and how does the commission intend to enforce contractual penalties on the project promoters?
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and developing countries in the context of the un conference on climate change in copenhagen.
mr. chairman, please! i was very concerned to hear reports of the meeting of the ministers of finance and the ministers of the environment, and in particular the draft outcome document, which fails to address the key question: how does the european union intend to support the world's poorest countries in their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and adapt to climate change? this is indeed a crucial matter. the draft document does not even repeat the amounts proposed by the european commission: that the needs of developing countries in this area are estimated at 100 billion euros per year until 2020, and what would the european union's possible contribution be in this amount? moreover, there is no decision on what cofinancing mechanism the member states should introduce, and we know that the proposals in this area are very different. of course, it is understandable that some people argue that we should be careful with specific declarations, and wait for proposals from other countries, especially economically strong ones. but if the union is to be a leader in the fight against climate change, it must try to put forward concrete proposals and concrete solutions, especially since some of this is our internal affair, like the co-financing mechanism. it is our duty to negotiate a fair deal with the developing countries. the world's poorest countries have contributed the least to climate change, yet they are the ones suffering the most from its consequences. the heavy dependence of many of the poor countries on agriculture and fisheries, as well as their poor infrastructure, puts them in a very difficult situation when it comes to climate change. so far in the last four years, africa alone, the poorest of the continents and one of the most vulnerable to the consequences of climate change, has received less than 12 percent of the funds that are available to fight climate change. that way we don't get those countries to get involved in this process.
mr. chairman, please! parliament's position on the global distribution of co2 reduction commitments is unfortunately unbalanced in terms of the cost of this reduction. the resolution calls into question the hard-won climate package, the costs of which are now being borne unevenly by the central european member states. adopting the solutions proposed today will only further increase these inequalities. we are trying to impose economically lethal standards on member states, while not requiring anything specific from the countries most responsible for co2 emissions in the world. it's unfair and ineffective. and without global scale, we're only deepening the competitive advantage of china, india, brazil. the resolution goes even further. it proposes that we pay extra to the poorest countries. 330 billion euros by 2020 means between 16.5 billion and even 40 billion from a country like poland. this is political madness that undermines the economic sense of being a member of the european union. moreover, this method is ineffective, as demonstrated by the preparations for the start-up of export power plants in the kaliningrad region bordering poland. copenhagen is not worth signing an agreement that will not share the burden of reducing co2 emissions in the world proportionately.
madam president! the european union is a leader internationally in promoting dialogue on climate change and in setting policy priorities for reducing co2 emissions. in the ongoing preparations for the copenhagen conference, the european union has made more commitments than any other region in the world. none of the industrialized powers, nor the united states, japan or australia, has so far come up with a concrete proposal, with concrete numbers to help developing countries in their efforts to reduce co2 emissions and support the development of energy-efficient renewable energy technologies. europe will only be a credible partner in the negotiations if it presents realistic, achievable and common sense proposals that will be the starting point for achieving international consensus and agreement. europe now needs allies and support for its current proposals. therefore, it is prudent to raise the reduction commitments from 20% to 30% if other industrialized countries are not willing to set themselves such ambitious targets. financial support for developing countries should also be a real commitment. it can't just be a wish list. it should be an aid scheme that takes account of the principles of sustainable development and should allow beneficiaries to plan their actions. another point, which is important from the point of view of the citizens of europe, is that we should not forget that the copenhagen summit, our resolutions and the preparations of parliament for that summit should be accompanied by a clearly defined system of communication with the citizens, with society. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts to help the eu institutions and citizens to develop their own climate action plans.
madam president! in the context of our debate, i would like to draw attention to two aspects. firstly, when we propose to reduce co2 emissions and to allocate funds to developing countries, we cannot forget the current economic and financial situation caused by the global crisis, because setting ambitious targets is very important, but i think the most important thing is to achieve them. secondly, we should focus on the issue of public awareness and the need for change in environmental issues. a study conducted at last year's poznan climate conference shows that the public sees climate change as a serious problem, but believes that it is only up to the government to solve it. this is why we need an appeal, an information campaign, to change attitudes and promote behavioural patterns to increase efficiency or reduce energy consumption in households and to make people aware that the way we live, the way we work has an economic and ecological cost.
in writing. for the past five years, i have witnessed an unprecedented climate hysteria being unleashed here in the european parliament by a select group of recruits from all political factions, mainly the greens and the socialists. this hysteria is skillfully fuelled by speeches by the president of the commission and the former president of parliament, who are threatening unimaginable disasters from climate change. people who think rationally about this issue are accused of having no moral code and are simply - as in my case today - not given a 'democratic' voice. the economic decisions contained in the climate and energy package, based on the unreliable hypothesis of the causes of climate change, are not only a cynical mockery of common sense, but also a harbinger of future economic and civilizational disaster. we must demand an honest discussion, based on the views of the whole objective world of science, on the causes of climate change and, above all, on how to prevent it.
in writing. a month and a half before the copenhagen summit, the world is looking to us to take concrete action, to be responsible and to think in terms of working together for people and their safety, in the face of the inevitability of climate change. you all know the reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, which clearly state that most of the warming observed over the last 50 years is due to human activities. climate change has become the geopolitical and economic priority of the 21st century, which requires bold and long-term action. we need to define, through global consensus, climate treaties that will build new models for reducing emissions after 2012. the kyoto protocol was the first step in breaking the minds of world governments about environmental protection. we should continue to think this way. but the point is, you can't just stop at reducing emissions through developed countries like the united states or china. support is needed for smaller, poorer countries that are struggling to implement alternative, green energy sources. it's not just about funding, it's about education and sharing experiences in building green economies. when we make decisions, let us also remember the citizens. they're the ones we should be informing, educating and encouraging to invest in the environment. as with any security policy, citizen support and cooperation is essential.
mr. chairman, please! the schengen treaty has given a new quality to the territory of most of the countries of the european union. despite the fact that it has been so short a time, we often forget what europe looked like with its border crossings and the difficulties of moving people between the member states. the schengen agreement is another success of our integration, but it also brings with it a great responsibility. the new member states have taken responsibility for a large part of the land borders. in addition to the positives, there are also negatives, as too many restrictions have been introduced on the movement of residents of neighbouring countries bordering mainly on the new countries of the union, such as poland and latvia. these difficulties have resulted, among other things, in severe restrictions on movement along our eastern borders. a new division is being created, a kind of barrier between countries that have had and have close relations due to history, family ties and, above all, neighbourly ties. in accordance with the schengen provisions, a common internal control system has been introduced for the relevant services in the european union countries that are signatories to this system. however, it seems that this system of controls is being used excessively, which does not serve to build a positive image of the unity of the european union.
in writing. - i voted with great pleasure in favour of the resolution on the regulation repealing certain acts in the field of the cap, because we keep hearing that we have too many regulations in the eu that restrict the functioning of the market economy. this is particularly true of the cap, where many existing acts are no longer needed, despite the introduction of many simplifications and the abolition of a number of provisions. a number of acts no longer have legal effect and the contents of subsequent acts have been incorporated into other documents. this creates a huge time and financial burden on our farmers and requires extensive administration. i therefore believe that it is necessary to further update, consolidate, simplify union law and repeal a number of unnecessary acts so that the existing rules are simple, transparent and understandable. it will bring the union closer to its citizens.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission. general questions and answers
president of the commission. - first of all, mr rangel, thank you very much for your greetings. it is with great pleasure that i now find in the european parliament the same procedure that we have in portugal and that i have followed, both as leader of the opposition and as prime minister, and i therefore hope to have a good opportunity to debate with the honourable members. as regards the specific question you are asking, the question is clear to me: all the countries have already approved the treaty of lisbon from a democratic point of view. ireland by referendum, the other countries by parliamentary procedure. the ratification process in the czech republic has yet to be completed. we are waiting for the conclusion of the procedure before the constitutional court, but when that procedure is completed we will certainly have completed the ratification process because there is a general principle of law, european law and international law, which is the principle of loyalty in cooperation between the member states and the institutions and also the principle of good faith in the negotiation of international agreements.
president of the commission. - the european council decided that it could only appoint new commissioners when there was legal clarity on the treaty and at the moment we have not yet completed this process. the commission will therefore be in a current affairs situation as from 1 november. we obviously want this process to be as rapid as possible and we are preparing everything, everything we can prepare for the next commission and that is what we will do. now, there is one point here, and i have to be honest with the members: we are not in control of the exact timing, it obviously depends on the completion of the ratification process in the czech republic.
president of the commission. − i think that without our economic recovery plan the situation would be much, much worse. in fact there was a real cushion effect on the measures taken. we estimated around 5% of european union gdp was spent over 2009 and 2010, that is around eur 550 billion. so i think something was, in fact, done. let us be realistic about it. i am in favour of all other efforts in terms of the combined platforms you have suggested to address the problems we face. employment remains the most important problem. as you know, i have stated this several times and have, in fact, asked for a summit on employment. it was downgraded by some member states. probably you, mr hughes, can help us convince some member states and governments that decided to downgrade that employment summit, because i believe employment is the most important problem that we have to face in the near future.
president of the commission. − and in fact that is what we have been doing. some of the special measures that have been taken by member states – look at kurzarbeit in germany for instance – have been to increase spending, while reducing productivity to some extent, which i think from a social point of view was justified. i could say the same for the welsh system which was approved in the united kingdom. so there have indeed been good cases where, for social reasons, there has been more flexibility and more social spending, but that was a way of avoiding a further rise in unemployment, which remains my prime concern nowadays.
president of the commission. − i have always supported my commissioners, including neelie kroes. it was, of course, after having my consent that she took the decision – namely the contacts she had with the german government asking for clarification. we are now waiting for a response from the undertakings involved. i am grateful that, thanks to good cooperation, we are making very good progress in this case. i understand that, following the doubts the commission expressed on the rightfulness of the bidding process, there will be a reassessment by gm and opel trust of the offers to buy opel, based on commercial conditions. i am confident we can reach a solution that is compatible with european internal market and state aid rules. i have very often said that we cannot make compromises on the issues of the internal market and competition rules in europe. if we do, we will no longer have an internal market or our common european project.
president of the commission. − not only did the letter have my support but before mrs kroes sent the letter i told her to send a letter, so my position on those issues is very clear. mr verhofstadt, let us be clear. we have three people in the commission who have the right to give an opinion, but the positions of the commission are the positions expressed by the president on behalf of the college and by the relevant commissioner.
president of the commission. − as i said publicly at the high-level event in new york, and also in pittsburgh, i am very worried at the slow pace of negotiations for copenhagen. there are three potential stumbling blocks for copenhagen, relating not just to financing: the clear lack of ambition as regards emission reduction pledges from some developed countries outside the european union; the reluctance of major developing countries – the big emerging economies – to come forward with convincing proposals for their mitigation actions; and also the absence of a solid financial offer by the developed countries on the negotiation table. these are the three stumbling blocks. i hope that the european union keeps its leadership position and that the european council at the end of this month comes up with a solid financial proposal. i hope we will have time to discuss this in more detail tomorrow, because climate change will be one of the main topics of discussion at the next european council. the commission will certainly fight for an ambitious programme because, as i have always said, climate change is not only an environmental matter, but also a development matter.
president of the commission. − i will be extremely happy the day that happens, but unfortunately it is not true. so far, the european union is the only block that has committed to binding targets that are now translated into legislation. we welcome some positive developments, namely the good political announcement made by the new prime minister of japan – i have personally congratulated him – but so far it is a political announcement. we welcome some of the national plans announced by china, but so far china has not agreed to make these binding in the negotiations in copenhagen. we welcome other positive developments, but in fact we are leading the world in this fight against climate change. i would like to have someone else around us when we are leading, because it is sometimes not very comfortable to be in the lead and to be alone. but the reality is that others have to match our level of ambition.
chair of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, thank you for being the living proof that the promises made by politicians are always fulfilled. when my wife asks me if i'm sure i'm going to do something, i always say yes, because i'm a politician. you have proven today that as a politician you are true to your word, you are with us and you answer the questions of this house very well. mr. chairman, please! in your speech before us here you said that it was extremely important to deepen the common market, that deepening the common market was a recipe for the crisis in europe. i would like to ask you, on behalf of my group, what you, mr president, intend to do in the coming months to ensure that this deepening of the european common market will help to combat the serious economic crisis we are facing today.
president of the commission. − thank you very much, mr kamiński. in fact i said in my political guidelines, which i believe were endorsed by the european parliament with the strong support you gave for my re-election, that the internal market is a priority and we should fight all kinds of economic nationalism. i have good news for all of you. just today i entrusted mario monti with a mission to prepare a report on the future of the single market, containing options and recommendations for an initiative to relaunch the single market. i am delighted that he has accepted this mission, as it is a way of having some outside expertise, to build support, hopefully together with the european parliament, so that we can give a new impetus to the internal market, and to see how we can make the internal market fit for the 21st century. i believe that this is particularly important for consumers and also for small and medium-sized companies, which sometimes feel the pressure and suffer from distorting behaviour in the common market.
chair of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would just like to say in conclusion how important it is for us, for our group, that in this work of deepening the common market, of building our common europe, the president should not forget the differences that exist in europe. that we have countries that are newly coming into the european union and are economically backward in some ways. we know that so far the president has been very fair to these new member states and i hope that he will continue to be so.
president of the commission. − i cannot confirm that now but i can tell you that, most likely, it will not be before then. i think that is the consensus between the finance ministers – and by the way that was also the position that the european union brought to the g20. now there is also the effort towards global coordination of these policies. that does not mean that all the regions of the world will make the same decisions at the same time, but during this crisis we have seen that we are, for better or for worse, connected, and we have to try to articulate these exit strategies globally. so most likely it will not be before 2011 but we should continue to monitor the economic situation very closely.
president of the commission. − first of all, mr farage, do not be so sad about the result in ireland. it was not a great result – just 67% of the people! when there is a real debate with real ownership, we have shown that there can be strong support for europe. in fact, it was a declaration of independence by ireland from the united kingdom independence party, because you were there campaigning and the irish said ‘no’ to you and to your party. (applause)now, regarding the future president of the council, i am not going to comment. that is a decision for the european council. what i would like to tell you very frankly is that there are no hidden agreements and there are no hidden agendas. if there were, i would already know. so there are no hidden agreements or secret bargaining. what i can tell you is the following: we need a president of the council who is a committed european and who gives consistency all the time, because i do not think it proper to have a council that changes its agenda completely every six months. i am very strong supporter of a strong european council presence which gives coherence and consistency to the council and that works, of course, hand in hand with the commission and is fully committed to the european project and to community matters.
president of the commission. − it is precisely because the european union is not the kind of integrated state you appear to fear so much that the president of the council is not directly elected by people but is chosen by the democratically elected heads of government of europe. that is precisely the logic of it. i myself was not only supported unanimously by the democratically elected heads of government, but also by a strong majority in this parliament. so i feel i have strong democratic legitimacy. (applause)in my previous life as a national politician i was democratically elected to my national parliament at the age of 29, and i should tell you that it is more difficult to be elected president of the commission than prime minister in most of our countries!
president of the commission. − i am following all the developments in the member states, but let us be clear: the commission does not have the power to intervene in some internal matters of the member states, and this is the kind of issue on which we cannot provide an answer here because this is an internal debate that is going on in hungary. we have the authority as the commission to intervene in any issue of fundamental rights when it is the implementation of community law. this was not the case in the events referred to by the distinguished member of parliament. so i would ask you not to put questions to me that you can better treat at national parliament level rather than here in the european parliament.
president of the commission. − of course, human rights are part of the european union but we have a system based on the rule of law and we assume that all member states, including your country, are countries governed by the rule of law. so you have the option of putting your questions to your courts, and there are also appeals to the european court of human rights or to the european court of justice in luxembourg. so we have a system of human rights. what i cannot do and should not do is enter into national political debates between the different political parties.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i would like to thank very warmly the chairmen of the political groups for their punctuality and for the excellent debate, including president barroso. because an important condition for having a lively debate is that we keep to the timetable. so, thank you very much to my colleagues. the impact of the financial crisis on employment and social cohesion
president of the commission. − i have already answered a previous speaker with some ideas on the internal market but, regarding the point you are clearly making on technology, i fully agree. we are behind the united states and others in terms of investment in new technologies. that is why, for instance, in this special package we have approved a european economic recovery plan. we have put a lot of emphasis on investment in some issues regarding the climate agenda and energy security. we are linking those two issues. that is why we have very recently come up with the set plan and we are also urging member states to devote more resources to financing green technologies, in other words all the technology that can enable us to become a more sustainable, greener economy. certainly this is a matter that we should also consider for the next financial perspectives. as you know, we will put forward our budget review before the end of the year. there will also be an opportunity to have a good debate about where, in the future, we should place our emphasis in terms of investment.
colleagues, could i ask you not to ask supplementary questions. i have a very long list of names here, and it would be much more interesting if more members could ask questions.
president of the commission. − i repeat that we have used to the full our existing instruments. we have community-level instruments, but there are some instruments that are national-level instruments. what we can do is to work with the member states to make the most of these, to exchange best practice and to urge them to follow this. commissioner špidla, who has done a great job in very difficult circumstances, is, in fact, together with the commission as a whole, asking for the member states to develop five million apprenticeships. we are making available some best practices. for instance, in france there have been extremely good practices from private companies promoting in-house training in their companies and promoting apprenticeships with public money, but with part of it also funded by the companies themselves. so this is indeed a priority and we are doing it with all our instruments – the european social fund, the globalisation adjustment fund, the cohesion fund and the doubling of the facility for balance of payment support to new member states and non-euro-area countries. we have used our instruments to the full but we have to work with the member states in a reinforced manner to address these social concerns and, as you mentioned especially, the concern of youth unemployment.
president of the commission. - i do not think that the solution for portugal, or for any european country, is to close europe. europe is the world's largest exporter of goods and services and we have no interest in a protectionist policy. it is true that there are sectors, sometimes called traditional in some european countries, particularly in the countries of southern europe, but not only, which are particularly exposed to the new conditions of international competition and are therefore making a special effort to adapt to these new conditions. that is why i also said in a previous reply that we must look for new sources of growth and competitiveness in europe. but it is certainly not closing us down, it is not closing us down in europe, risking that other markets will also be closed to our exports. it is investing in innovation, it is investing in training, it is investing in new sources of growth, it is seeking to gain more competitiveness, while at the same time we seek, as the honourable member said - and we agree on this - not to do so at the expense of social standards which are important in europe. we do not propose to lower our social standards. we also seek to raise the social standards of others, but i am certainly not advocating that europe should close itself off. i think europe has an interest in keeping global markets open.
that is a very specific question. we prefer general questions about the crisis and how to overcome it. the president of the european commission cannot be informed about specific issues in individual countries, so please be more general in your questions.
president of the commission. − i just want to say that i do not like that comparison between sheep and people very much. i do not think it is in very good taste, really. (applause)having said that, we are committed to implementing the identification you mentioned, but of course we are being careful. if there are problems in the implementation, we are ready to look at it. however, i feel that the measures that have already been taken regarding the identification of sheep are indeed good in general. let us see how it works in practice.
president of the commission. − my clear answer is no: what we have done is not sufficient. we have to do more for smes; i think it is a priority. we have approved the small business act; that is good. we have improved the late payments issue by reducing delays in payment; that was good and was very much welcomed by smes. we are, of course, trying to limit all bureaucratic and administrative procedures that create administrative burdens, particularly for smes, and we are committed to making life easier for smes. they are, as you said – and i agree with you – one of the most important sectors for creating more jobs, and this is part of our policy. another measure that we have taken recently, which i have not yet mentioned today, was to increase to eur 500 000 the threshold of state aid allowed in direct support by member states to some smes in special difficulties. so i think smes should remain a priority of our action for sustainability, including sustainable employment.
president of the commission. − i am sorry, i did not understand the question very well because, if you are suggesting having a new commissioner for all the new competences of the lisbon treaty, no, i certainly do not think this is reasonable because they are in so many different areas that we cannot ask one person to have all these competences. now i have already announced, answering a previous question, what i think will be some of the innovations in terms of the portfolios. there may be some more; i am working on it. this is, after all, an interactive work with the member states too. for instance, ireland has not yet designated a possible commissioner. i did this five years ago, and this is an interactive process where i also need to see the people that those member states have put forward in order to form the commission. i will certainly do my best to find competent people – men and women (and i am saying this also for ireland!) – so that we can, in the end, have a college of committed europeans who are competent and experienced in all fields, from economy, general politics, energy, environment, justice, fundamental rights and so forth: a huge set of competences for which we need a very able group of people.
this is the first time parliament has had this question-and-answer session with the president of the commission, so thank you very much once again, president barroso. as this was a special event for us, would you care to make a few general comments about this first question-and-answer session?
president of the commission. − thank you very much, mr president and all the distinguished members of this parliament, for this exercise. i really enjoyed it. i think it is a good exercise. i have to tell you very frankly that it is extremely difficult for me to compress all my arguments, or at least my main arguments, into one minute, especially because most of the time i am not speaking my own language. i am speaking in languages that i believe are more accessible and that requires an additional effort from me. anyway, you decide the format. i can discuss it with you because i believe that free, confrontational and controversial debates are a good contribution to a stronger european democratic space. (applause)
that concludes the item.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mr lászló surjána on behalf of the committee on budgets on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iii - commission (c7-0127/2009 - 2009/2002 ((bud)) and on letter of amendment no 1/2010 (sec2009) 1133 to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (a7-0038/2009), and the report drawn up by mr vladimír maňka on behalf of the committee on budgets on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (c7-0037/2009 ((a7-0037/2009)) section i european parliamentsection ii councilsection iv court of justicesection v court of auditorssection vi economic and social committeesection vii committee of the regionssection viii european ombudsmansector ix european ombudsman (a7-0037/2009 (a7-0012/2009)) section ix - european ombudsman (a7-0037/2009) council of the european union (c7-0012/2009).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − madam president, for 2010 we need a budget harnessing effectively all european policies to pull the european economy out of the crisis, while at the same time preserving our long-term objectives and commitments, which are sustainable growth, economic and social cohesion, and our obligations vis-à-vis the external world, including candidate countries. in the draft budget the council has automatically cut 36 lines on administrative expenditure, among other lines accompanying the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). the argument used, which is low absorption, is not justified as the necessary framework for the implementation of ipa could only be completed in july 2009. from 2010 onwards the european commission must appraise and approve a significant number of large projects for which it will need to employ significant numbers of people to provide external short-term technical expertise. 2010 will also be the year when the effective implementation of operations will start, requiring the performance of ex ante controls by the commission on extensive numbers of tenders and contracts. the budget cuts mean that the sound financial management of pre-accession assistance is put in real danger, with all its political dimensions. we should therefore remain open to reacting positively to the request from the european commission to restore the pdb level in this respect.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. due to some delays, i have to leave parliament at once, i have a plane that leaves in 45 minutes. i will make sure that everything said will be conveyed to me. it's been a good discussion. many good proposals have been put forward. it's hard to prioritize, but we have to prioritize. as regards research, i would like to say to lena ek that we are spending 7.3 per cent more on research than in the 2009 budget, which i think is a lot. the house also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals. at the same time, we must remember that the eu is retreating. the public finances of the european union are falling by about 7%. it's nothing we can ignore. the council is also investing more, but also more selectively. we are investing in measures to stimulate growth and are doing more to reduce administrative expenditure. at the same time, we are pleased to see that parliament is taking important steps in this area as well. i believe that after today's discussion and the discussions i have had in the past with representatives of parliament, we will agree with the commission on a really good budget in the future.
madam president! as we all know, the main points of the 2010 budget and its evaluation have already been set out in the resolution of 10 march this year. parliament criticised in particular the reduction in reserves in most multiannual headings. it is concerned that in this draft the council has further reduced the initial draft, creating such a large disparity between the level of commitments and payments that it has contradicted the basic principle of economy. i expected more attention to be paid, not to mention to the main economic crisis that is still going on, but as you can see parliament has to fight for the interests of its citizens and convince them that europe is not the source of the problems but can find an effective remedy for them. i therefore fully support the draft which includes measures to implement the economic recovery programme and i think that this should be one of the priorities of parliament. the council's cuts would limit or even prevent growth and job creation, but would also put a stop to the work to solve the energy problem of our citizens. in the context of the crisis in agriculture, for example in the dairy sector, there is no scope for expanding programmes that would support the growth of consumption of agricultural products, for example by promoting the consumption of milk and fruit in educational establishments. i therefore consider that the draft budget in the form presented is not capable of meeting the objectives set by the union. from the few points i have already made, it is clear that there are areas in the eu budget that can cope with the problems that they should be solving, but in many places budget items are planned historically, as if the present and the current problems did not exist. they don't anticipate future challenges, and if they do, they make little attempt to shape them. i believe that as a parliament we must strive in our decisions to be more dynamic in responding to the problems that are emerging in europe, while keeping in mind the transparency of the management of funds. we were committed to this by our constituents six months ago.
madam president! we are all aware of the difficult situation of the economic, financial crisis. i am all the more pleased that the committee on budgets and the rapporteur himself have taken a positive view of the amendment concerning the organisation of the special olympics. special olympics, to clarify, are sports competitions for people with intellectual disabilities, allowing them to participate fully in society and give them a chance to express themselves. i am very pleased that it has been possible to organise the special olympics in warsaw in 2010 and the world games in athens in 2011. i would like to ask the council to look positively at this funding and the european commission to help us organise this annual event in practice.
madam president! the proposed budget must be a direct means of combating the crisis. the shipbuilding and shipping industries have been particularly affected by the global crisis. in addition, the european commission, through its restrictive policy, has contributed to the demise of the shipbuilding industry in europe. the polish example of the european commission's actions is resulting in the liquidation of the shipbuilding industry and generating tens of thousands of unemployed people. this kind of economic strengthening is actually strengthening the economies of the far east. i therefore call for and point out that it is essential that next year's budget provides the means to save this industry, the shipbuilding industry, throughout europe.
madam president! the budget for next year also provides for increased security and defence spending. this has raised concerns and reservations among some politicians. these remarks were also heard during the debate. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner a specific question: what will the increased resources in the area of defence be used for? is it about some kind of joint missions, or is the essence of these additional larger funds to promote new technologies, to promote joint military programs? because if you were, i think this is the right direction. because the military also brings new technologies and can create very interesting, modern jobs. i would therefore ask for more information on this subject.
in writing. i want to raise an issue that is important for the economy and jobs not only in my country. we expect the commission to propose in the near future a possible extension of the anti-dumping duties on imports of leather footwear from china and vietnam. the positions of the member states on this matter vary widely. given the significant employment in this industry, the maintenance of the existing duties is of the utmost importance. from a technical point of view, the extension of the existing provisions raises no objections. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that it bases its proposal on the merits of the case, while pointing out that this is an opportunity to review the commission president's recent promises to protect jobs.
member of the commission. - thank you for the additional questions. as regards the first question, possibly a project between hungary and slovakia. if such a project is presented to the european commission, we will of course examine it with the utmost care. we want to contribute in this way to finding solutions of common interest for both countries. as regards the second point, i should like to stress first of all that in september we launched an initiative on early language learning, an initiative which will run for several years and which is already very successful. the initiative also includes a campaign in the member states to encourage parents of children aged 2 to 6 to encourage their children to learn foreign languages. as for the second part of the question, lifelong learning, this is the main objective of the policy we are promoting. we have projects, a significant number of projects, that address language learning and the acquisition of intercultural skills for people who are outside the education systems, including those in vocational institutions, for those who, let's say, have fewer opportunities, including pensioners, including the unemployed. this is not only reflected in the way we finance different projects, but is also very clearly underlined in the strategy that the european commission adopted in 2008. we want all european union citizens, not just young people, to be able to have the means and the opportunity to learn foreign languages, at least two foreign languages.
i'm not going to let you do this. i wanted to thank you very much for the interesting information, but the commissioner's answer to that question was focused on schools, and in the meantime there were also attempts to establish universities in various border towns. this type of university was established, for example, on the border of poland and germany in frankfurt viadrina university. my question is this: are the various measures that the commissioner has mentioned also intended to support this type of higher education, universities, which have been set up in various cities on the border between countries within the european union?
mr. chairman, please! i hope the dairy farmers are over the worst of it. this hope is reinforced by the decision to support milk producers with eur 280 million next year. but the key question remains: what about production and milk producers in the long term? the most important issue in this case is the future of milk quotas. we have two trends today. the first is the result of the review of the common agricultural policy, which gradually increases production quotas and aims to abolish quotas in 2015. and the second trend is contained in the current proposal of the european commission, which aims to reduce milk supply by means of a new method of calculating the surplus levy. these two tendencies are contradictory. i am personally in favour of maintaining the quotas, but only if the allocation of quotas between the countries of the european union and the producers is based on objective and fair criteria. to develop and adopt such fair and objective criteria would be very difficult, but it might be worth a try. as regards the extension of article 186, yes, but i think that this should be accompanied by a definition of the tasks and instruments that the commission will be able to use.
mr. chairman, please! of course we welcome new solutions that are supposed to help farmers, including farmers in poland, but we also have to remember that when we talk about money - and this is the question - how will it actually be distributed so that it reaches those who feel the effects of the crisis the most, because i do not agree with such a policy if we give everyone equally, i.e. a little bit, which means that we literally do not help anyone. but secondly, i'd like to go back to history, so that we can talk about the future in a moment. well, we remember the good old days, a couple of months ago, when farmers got a very good price for their milk. at the same time, farmers have benefited from large eu subsidies to modernise the sector. it is therefore important that we plan for the future on the basis of these experiences and learn from the mistakes, because they certainly were there, and also think about how to plan for the development of this sector, having money both for direct subsidies, for the development of rural areas and at the same time having an instrument such as milk quotas.
i'm not going to let you down. i ask the question: what does the commission want to do with the 280 million euros? is it to further restructure or better, as the 21 member states wanted, to inject the market, to market mechanisms? the farmers want that money to go to support mechanisms. they're not currently able to take out any more loans, improve their productivity. they're unable to continue their modernization now because they've lost liquidity. they don't want to buy refrigerators, they don't want to buy milk, it's not the time to invest. this €280 million is less than €2 per tonne of milk produced in the european union. when the european commission proposes the so-called quota management mechanism, it is de facto demanding a limitation of production. let's think about whether we might have a situation like after the sugar market reform where we have problems with the supply of this raw material. is it time to reduce milk production, cereal production? i don't think we want that.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (29-30 october 2009).
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? we are facing a meeting of the european council next week. it is a wide-ranging agenda and many issues affect the welfare of all of us. we will discuss issues such as combating climate change, finding ways to lead the eu out of the financial and economic crisis, promoting energy security and tackling the problem of irregular migration. the european union will be best prepared to deal with all these issues if we get clarity on the treaty issue. it is important that the treaty of lisbon can enter into force as soon as possible so that we can continue work on appointing the new commission. that is why the european council will also look at these issues. i shall begin with those questions which i know are of great interest to the european parliament. at the end of next week, the heads of state or government will try to clarify the ratification of the lisbon treaty and the progress of that process. the overwhelming 'yes' vote in ireland and the signature of the polish president have given the work new impetus. but as you all know, the treaty cannot enter into force until all the member states have ratified it - 26 of the 27 have done so, but the czech republic remains. the czech chamber of deputies and senate have approved the treaty, but 17 senators have since submitted a request to the constitutional court to examine whether the lisbon treaty is compatible with the constitution of the czech republic. we must of course respect the democratic process in the czech republic. on october 27, the country's constitutional court will hold a public hearing on the matter. we believe that the court will give its ruling very shortly thereafter, but we do not yet have a date. as you know, president vaclav klaus has also set certain conditions for signing the treaty. we are waiting and trying to find out exactly what these terms and conditions mean. the debate in the european council will therefore depend very much on what happens in the czech republic. the opinions of the czech constitutional court and the way in which it is dealt with will be decisive for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the european council will also discuss the preparations made so far to ensure that the treaty enters into force as smoothly as possible. the presidency will present a report here, outlining where we stand on all these issues. in this report we present the member states' views on issues such as the european external action service - an issue we will be discussing this afternoon - its scope, legal status, staffing and funding. i have read the report by elmar brok, which was adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs on monday. as i said, we'll go into it more in depth this afternoon. i can already mention here that for next week's meeting this report will guide the high representative's deliberations so that he or she, once the treaty has entered into force, can very quickly present a formal proposal on how the european external action service should operate. that proposal should be adopted by the council very soon, hopefully sometime in the next few months. on many of these issues we have had discussions and dialogue with the european parliament and we hope that this will continue in the coming weeks. the major issue at the european council will be climate change. we want the council to take the appropriate decisions, including on financing, so that the eu can continue to play the necessary leadership role and thereby contribute to a successful outcome in copenhagen. at yesterday's ecofin meeting there was a long and in-depth discussion on the financing issue. the presidency did its utmost to reach an agreement, but in the end it considered that the matter had to be decided by the european council. further discussions are needed in some member states to move forward. it is of the utmost importance that we come to an agreement so that this process does not stall. at this stage of the international negotiations we are well aware of the difficulties we face. the eu and an agreement on the financing issue could therefore be a major step forward in the negotiations. the european council meeting comes at a very opportune time, just before the un climate panel negotiating session in barcelona and the g20 finance ministers meeting in st andrews. only if all parties act can we reach an agreement in copenhagen. eu environment ministers are meeting to discuss the conclusions on climate change. the aim is to provide a comprehensive picture of the eu's positions on the issues at stake in the negotiations. key elements of the environment council conclusions will be to clarify the eu's strategy for long-term emission reductions and to seek agreement that can facilitate our decision to raise our emission reduction target from 20 to 30 per cent compared to 1990 levels. the environment council conclusions will also address the issue of deciding on the eu's bid in the negotiations on emission reductions for international aviation and shipping, develop the eu's strategy for action in developing countries in terms of measurement, reporting and verification of efforts and the role of sectoral mechanisms, and further develop the eu's strategy against deforestation and forest degradation to accelerate the negotiations. the european council will also assess progress in developing a new framework for the eu's supervision of financial markets. as you know, in june the heads of state or government reached a very ambitious agreement with the aim of establishing a special body responsible for the macro-prudential oversight of the eu financial system and three european supervisory authorities for banking, insurance and securities markets. at the end of september, the commission presented its package of legislative proposals. this is one of the highest priorities of the presidency and we have set an ambitious timetable. our aim is to have an agreement on the whole package by the end of the year. i am therefore very pleased that yesterday the ecofin council was able to take a major step forward and reach a broad political agreement on the establishment of the new macro-prudential body, without prejudging the work of the national parliaments. the swedish presidency was also given the task by the finance ministers of continuing the dialogue with the european parliament. we have had very good experiences with this dialogue and we think it is working well. it is now important that we seize the opportunity and move forward as quickly as possible. we must show that we are doing our utmost to prevent future crises and that we are taking our shared responsibility to ensure that consumers and investors regain confidence in the financial system. a few words also on employment in europe - a subject which i know the european council will be discussing. recently, we have seen tentative signs of economic recovery. but the situation on the labour markets is expected to deteriorate and we will still need incentive and support measures. a key issue for the european council to highlight is how to manage the consequences of the crisis while living up to our long-term objective of increasing labour supply. a high level of employment is required for sustainable public finances. a high level of employment is a prerequisite for economic growth, for people's well-being and for a socially more cohesive europe. in this context, i would also like to recall what we said about exit strategies. the finance ministers noted that the recovery is real but fragile. it is therefore important to continue the expansionary fiscal policy. the discussions at the council resulted in an agreement to develop strategies based on the principles discussed by the finance ministers at their informal meeting in gothenburg. i would also like to say something about energy security. in line with the june 2009 conclusions, the european council will assess next week what has been achieved in the field of energy infrastructure (interconnections) and crisis mechanisms. we have prepared a report on developments since january. it will be taken up by the european council. the european council will also adopt the eu strategy for the baltic sea region. we had a very fruitful debate on this at the september plenary session of parliament. the heads of state or government will endorse the presidency conclusions, which will be adopted by the general affairs and external relations council on monday. this strategy provides an integrated framework to address the challenges facing the eu and contribute to economic, social and territorial cohesion. i am convinced that this strategy can serve as an inspiring example for other macro-regions in the eu and thus strengthen european integration. the eu strategy for the danube region is already taking shape and will be duly presented to the hungarian presidency in 2011. it is with great satisfaction that the swedish presidency can now present the results of this initiative, which was born here in the european parliament. we hope that the european council will be able to urge all relevant actors to get on with the implementation of the strategy quickly. this is absolutely essential if we are to get started on tackling the pressing environmental problems and achieving the objectives of the strategy. the european council will also assess progress in the implementation of the conclusions on the migration situation in the mediterranean. the council will welcome the measures taken in the short term, such as the launch of the pilot project in malta, as well as the progress made towards the establishment of the european asylum office. it will also take note of the resumption of the eu-turkey dialogue on migration. we expect the european council to call for further efforts to deal with the current situation in the mediterranean and to continue work on long-term solutions based on solidarity between member states. we also expect the council to underline the need for increased efforts to implement the eu's global approach to migration. the council will be asked to strengthen frontex and to introduce common rules for frontex operations at sea. finally, there will be a discussion on external relations. in june, the institutions, on behalf of the general affairs and external relations council, examined ways of increasing the eu's engagement in afghanistan and pakistan. a first draft was discussed at the informal gymnich meeting in september and a detailed proposal is currently being discussed by the member states at working group level. at the foreign ministers' meeting next week, the eu will adopt a plan to strengthen its efforts in afghanistan and pakistan. the plan focuses on strengthening the state capacity and institutions of both countries. it is very important that this plan can be implemented immediately. we need a major international response if we are to turn the tide in afghanistan and pakistan. military solutions alone can never lead to a sustainable solution. without security and governance, economic development is lost. we also need to invest in building democratic institutions and strengthening civil society. the eu has a very important role to play in both countries. there are common problems, there are regional aspects, and of course the response varies between afghanistan and pakistan. we will discuss this at the european council next week and i am of course available to listen to the comments and questions of members. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the commission. − mr president, i broadly agree with the lines expressed by cecilia malmström on behalf of the european council. let me highlight two main issues: the lisbon treaty and all institutional matters on the one hand, and the fight against climate change and the prospects for copenhagen on the other. first of all, i think this european council should be able to take the final decisions to see the treaty of lisbon pass into force. for many years, we have known that the ratification of a new treaty is not an easy business. we have had many setbacks and some disappointments, but every time the overriding case for the treaty has won through – the compelling case for a democratic and effective europe. i am confident that this will continue to be the case in jumping this final hurdle to seeing the treaty enter into force after the strong support given to the lisbon treaty by the people of ireland. after the conclusion of the ratification process in poland, we can now say that all member states have democratically approved the lisbon treaty. we only need to see the process of ratification completed in the czech republic. of course, the constitutional procedures under way in the czech republic must be respected, so too must be the need to respond to the democratic will to see the treaty enter into force. that democratic will was clearly shown by the parliament of the czech republic, so i hope that no artificial obstacles and no artificial delays will now cause more difficulties before full ratification. i have already set out to this parliament the importance of minimising delays in the nomination of the european commission. however, we must do all we can to have a lisbon treaty commission as these are critical times for europe. we need to be able to push ahead with an agenda this parliament supported when it elected me president for a new term. to achieve this and to have the institutions working properly, we do need ratification of the lisbon treaty if we want a strong, coherent and effective european union. so, i again make it clear that the european council must assume its responsibilities and there must be a recognition of urgency and a realisation that there will be a real cost to europe as long as the european institutions cannot work properly. at the same time, it is right to push ahead now with the work on implementation and to be ready for the entry into force of the treaty. i know that this parliament is fully committed to this work. i am pleased to be cooperating with you to ensure that the benefits of the treaty will come into play as quickly as possible. there are many areas in which this parliament has already begun its work and has made a major contribution, crystallising ideas in areas like the european citizens’ initiative. i know that this afternoon you will be debating elmar brok’s report on the european external action service. the report starts from exactly the right basis to ensure that the service, like the rest of the treaty’s innovations, makes our community system even stronger and better performing. i know there have been concerns from the outset that the eas will be some kind of intergovernmental body floating outside the european union system, but the service should be firmly anchored in the european union system. it should inevitably work very closely with all the institutions, the commission first and foremost. the decisions it prepares will be taken by the commission or by the council in cfsp matters. in fact, i am convinced that its success will depend on this to ensure that the european union’s external action is more than the sum of its institutional parts. if it can work with the democratic underpinning of this parliament, the council’s connection with national administrations and the commission’s expertise and european vision, that service can truly become a powerful tool for the european union to achieve its goals on the global stage. a communautaire european external service, a service based on the community method, will be a strong service for europe and a strong tool for a united europe projecting its influence in the world. at the same time, the european council must take forward an active policy agenda. it must maintain the momentum of our work to address the economic crisis, mainly its impact on unemployment. we must carry forward the work we agreed at the g20. we must do everything we can to see that the proposals made by the european commission on financial supervision enter into force as soon as possible. we must push on with our programme to address energy security. the most important issue in policy terms in the council will be copenhagen. a successful outcome at copenhagen remains a primary concern for europeans and a major task for the global community. there are less than 50 days to go to copenhagen. progress in the negotiations remains slow. it falls again to the european union to show leadership and to keep up the momentum. the targets we have put on the table have provided an inspiration for others to step up their actions, but we all know that to galvanise real global action we need to take a further step. we need to help developing countries with concrete ideas on finance, as the european commission proposed last month. we estimate that by 2020 developing countries will need an additional eur 100 billion or so a year. domestic finance, namely from the large emerging economies – developing but emerging economies – and the carbon market should cover a large part of this, but large-scale international public finance should also be forthcoming, with the european union paying its fair share. the copenhagen agenda is not just about climate change. this is of course the main target, but the climate is also a question of a development, and we should not forget that very important dimension. this will be a major commitment, especially at a time when public budgets are already under pressure, but we all know that the longer we wait, the higher the costs will be. the task for the european council is again to find creative solutions, to show that the european union is united behind the need to fight climate change. first, copenhagen must show that the drive to cut emissions is on its way; second, it must show that we are prepared to help those ready to take that step. this is the best way to make the case for the kind of active europe that the lisbon treaty brings – driving ahead with an agenda that shows that the european union brings concrete benefits for its citizens. to have an ambitious agenda, we need to have an effective institutional framework, and i come back to my first point. the lisbon treaty is the first treaty of the enlarged europe. this generation, particularly among our friends in central and eastern europe, remembers well when europe was divided, but we are not here for ever. institutions will last, so we need to have institutions for the enlarged europe. the lisbon treaty is the treaty for the europe of the 21st century, with strong institutions which are able to deliver concrete results in the europe of 27 and more members in the future. institutions alone, however, are not enough. we need a strong political will to achieve our goals, and i hope that the european council at the end of this month will show that will for a strong ambitious outcome at copenhagen. (applause)
mr swoboda, could you comment on that?
colleagues, please keep to the allotted time. your speeches are very important but nevertheless i have another request for a blue-card question. i am not going to take every blue card because we must go ahead with our discussion. in a few minutes there will be another request; if it is a rule 149(8) request i will take it.
mr president, with the lisbon treaty approaching, we expect the october european council to make progress on one of the priority issues – the european external action service. the european parliament has consistently called for the creation of a genuine common european diplomacy. the eas has the potential to ensure the unity and consistency of our external action, which is most needed if the union is to act with one voice and meet external challenges such as energy security in an efficient manner. to seize the opportunity offered by setting up the eas, we expect the council to take into consideration the position of the european parliament adopted this week in the committee on constitutional affairs, and especially the following. to have a strong external policy, we need to equip the new head of european diplomacy with proper instruments to enable him or her to strengthen our foreign policy. the eas should be based on the community method with the clear involvement of the commission and the european parliament. the scope of the hr’s competence needs to be large, involving such cfsp-related policies as enlargement, neighbourhood, trade and development. the condition for a strong, coherent foreign policy is democratic legitimacy, which can only be provided by the strong involvement of the european parliament. this involvement should be considered at two stages: ex ante consultation of the parliament during the process of setting up the service, and ex ante consultation of the parliament in setting foreign policy goals. once the high representative and the service are in place, the european parliament should have a strong mandate to play an active role in the scrutiny of the eu’s foreign policy and the service. in the implementation phase, we should not allow the lisbon treaty-based foreign policy provisions to be diluted. the democratic legitimacy of the new service also depends on its composition. the geographic balance of the union should be taken into account. fair representation of all member states in the eu institutions is a core principle, and the eas should be no exception.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon treaty has not yet been ratified and remains a political project. this means that the principle of unanimity still applies in the european union. any country has the right to object. czech president vaclav klaus is operating within the established rules. the pressure on the president is not really about him alone, but about the many millions of citizens of european countries who have serious reservations about this document. at the next council summit, the leaders of the european union countries should reflect deeply on the purpose and consequences of deliberately ignoring the will of the citizens they represent.
in writing. - i voted against because the draft resolution is harmful and does not comply with european standards. the left, in the name of its own interests, has broken, among other things, the principle of applying uniform standards to all member states. the fact that the oral amendment tabled by mr. schaefer was not allowed to be voted on was the best proof that the real purpose of the resolution was not to show concern for the freedom of the media. the real purpose of the resolution was to strike at the italian government and only at the italian government. and that's because it's a government that the left doesn't like. the left may not like the italian government. i see no reason to accept the attempt to treat the european parliament as an instrument and to use our chamber for the political struggle taking place in one of the member states. freedom of the press is universal and important even when it is threatened by leftist governments. i'm very glad that we rejected a bill that was on the agenda only so that the left could attack its political opponents in italy.
mr president, thank you very much. commissioner, minister, i have to start with the footnotes. as much as i really admire the rhetorical flair of our friends from ukip, i find it quite interesting as someone coming from central europe that you are so ready to share your experience of living under the titoist regime in yugoslavia or under the soviet regime. really interesting. first of all let me congratulate elmar brok for preparing a report which so magnificently represents the mainstream, and let me repeat that, the mainstream of this house. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the new service we will increase our ability to speak with one voice. we agree that the new service should be as close to the commission as possible, because only the community method guarantees the coherence of our actions and, most importantly, the points of view of us all will be taken into account to the same degree. for the new service to be credible it has to be endowed with as much democratic legitimacy as possible, therefore all the efforts to take care of this house’s powers of scrutiny have to be saluted. most importantly we have to do everything to ensure that the new service is of the best quality and that it is trusted by everyone. we have to do our utmost so that the commission, the council and 27 member states send their best people to work in the eeas. that is why they have to enjoy the same status. work in the service should be treated as an integral part of their career at home. the people working for the service have to be chosen on merit, but also according to geographic balance so as to counteract the unfounded fears that the service could be hijacked by anyone. the lisbon treaty is important and different from all the other treaties because so much depends on its implementation. i hope that the insights of this house will help the council and the commission to actually implement this treaty in such a way that we will increase our ability to speak with one voice.
mr. chairman, please! the eu project is of course unique, as we have stressed on many occasions. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which i hope will be successful, also creates new institutions. the council also adopted a decision on the establishment of a european external action service, which is intended to ensure that external relations are both consistent and effective. as commissioner ferrero-waldner said, it will be a sui generis entity, but it is also worth recalling that elmar brok said that the basic principles for the creation of this service should be both efficiency and transparency, as well as a democratic mandate. the effectiveness of the european external action service should be ensured by consensus, both between the institutions, and i welcome the declarations of the council and the commission, but also by including tasks relating to development aid, humanitarian aid, enlargement and international trade. the union also needs a strong voice, for example, on energy policy and solidarity. as regards transparency, i expect a balance not only between the institutions but, above all, and i would like to stress this, a geographical balance in the appointments within the european external action service. the present representation does not meet this requirement, even when we look at the directorate-general for relex or the commission's representations outside the union. appointment should be of a democratic standard and i expect that parliament will have its place both in the appointment process and in the subsequent hearing of candidate heads of delegation, including the foreign affairs committee. in the field of training, it is proposed to set up a european diplomatic academy. this is an important task, but i would also like to stress that there are national centres and many european colleges that have a track record in training. we should use this. bruges, natolin, florence, maastricht. i'm going to have to go to the hospital.
mr president, the discussion on the european external action service is taking place at a time when the need for a long-term eu strategy on how to work with the other parts of the globe in the dramatically changing world has become urgent. we need bold strategies, vision and actions, as the emerging global powers are modernising more quickly than europe ever did and are becoming more and more assertive. our geopolitical strategic thinking in foreign policy cannot be limited to climate change and energy security. one of the three institutions that will, in practice, be active in foreign policy – president of the council, president of the commission and high representative – must have the geopolitical strategic competences assigned to it and not only short-term fixing of emerging problems, which leads to lowest-common-denominator-based foreign policy. in my view, the natural candidate for these strategic competences is the high representative, drawing on the competences and expertise of the european external action service.
mr. chairman, please! i also wanted to thank you very much for this wonderful, in-depth report. the european union, through the establishment of a professional european external action service, can be actively present on the international scene as a creator of international policy. this is very important. of course, we all agree that the quality of services is a matter for the commission and the member states and that cooperation between the european parliament, the council and the commission is needed in this area. i would like to ask the commissioner whether, in your contacts with the european parliament, you see a practical way of using our activities in the form of active cooperation, inter alia, with interparliamentary delegations. i think there are many forums for the high representative and the european external action service to work actively with parliament, also through delegations. are the necessary preparations being made?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the european external action service is an exceptional project and one that deserves special support. it is intended to support the eu high representative, but at the same time we must ensure that it retains its appropriate qualifications and institutional and national representativeness. the integration of the human service into work should take place in particular with respect to the principles of transparency and equality. it is also worth noting that the european external action service will extend the possibility of diplomatic assistance, since any citizen of the union will be able to apply for it, which is de facto a development of the current possibility of applying to the foreign service of another member state if there is no diplomatic or consular post in the country of residence of the country of origin. the european external action service should also provide added value through the synergy of its three main components - services originating from the current european commission, the council and the member states. in my opinion, the eeas should recruit candidates from all three sources. it will give it expertise, efficiency and a unique character. this efficiency will also be achieved through the large number of european union delegations resulting from the transformation of the current commission delegations. with regard to the speech by mr andrzej grzyb, i also believe that the establishment of a european diplomatic academy could be replaced by the use of national and regional centres already known throughout europe for the professional training of future diplomats.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the deepening of the us-eu relationship should be the basis of the union's external policy. because the united states has been our closest ally for years. we have many challenges to face, and we must face them together, shoulder to shoulder with washington. in the area of security, we are concerned about iran's attitude and the deteriorating situation in afghanistan. closer to our borders, russia is becoming an increasingly unpredictable and authoritarian neighbor, and the kremlin is exerting neo-imperial pressure on countries that it considers to be its near abroad. in order to defend and remain true to the values that america and europe share, we must speak with one voice whenever we are confronted with human rights violations and threats to basic civil liberties. we must be united in defending our security. we must not forget that the north atlantic alliance is the foundation of transatlantic relations. the area of security, freedom and democracy should therefore be extended to include those european states which will enhance euro-atlantic security. it is essential that the european union makes active engagement with the united states a priority.
madam president! i'd like to thank you for the opportunity to speak. i think it is very important that we discuss transatlantic relations, because partly we are in a paradoxical situation. in europe, for the most part, the changes that have taken place in the united states have been very well received. on the other hand, there is a greater interest in the united states than in other major countries and continents, especially the renewal of the united states' contacts with china or the desire to improve relations with russia. the problem we have is that i think we're trying to bring too many issues into the discussion. well, i think we should focus on two areas. the first area concerns financial and economic matters. the second area is security. in both these areas, the united states and europe could do much more together.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the resolution on the preparation of the transatlantic economic council and the eu-us summit (2 and 3 november 2009) on page 17 calls on the united states to treat european union citizens equally and to extend the visa-free travel scheme to all eu member states. it is high time that the calls of parliament, the efforts of the commission and the efforts of the member states which are discriminated against in the visa field bear fruit. otherwise, we will have to take drastic measures to introduce a visa requirement for american citizens. it's time to end the unilateral privilege of the united states. the european parliament cannot tolerate american discrimination against european citizens on the grounds of nationality. the ep's position on this issue is all the more important as not all member state governments understand the need to apply the principle of visa reciprocity. the government of the republic of poland is one of them. the citizens' position is quite different. over 61 percent of poles are in favor of introducing entry visas for u.s. citizens. in the internet survey, it was 96 percent. i hope that the upcoming eu-us summit will be a breakthrough, at least in terms of visa policy, and that in the new year of 2010 citizens of all eu member states will be able to travel as normal, as any american citizen travels to any eu country.
mr. chairman, please! there's been a lot of talk about moldova here, pointing out the very bad economic situation of the country, but let's face it, the situation is much better today than it was a year ago. we see clear progress on moldova's path to an economy that will provide prosperity for its citizens. paradoxically, moldova is in a better position now than it was a year ago, and ukraine, which was held up as a certain model for all, is in a worse position than it was a year ago. let's see the progress in terms of what moldova and its government are doing. the european union should show a clear european perspective for this country, very strongly support the current authorities so that there is no repetition of this political nightmare. the current situation in moldova is the result of eight years of communist rule, and if we don't want to fund the return to power of that incompetent team, then let's help the current moldovan government and society.
madam president, i would also like to thank the commissioner and the commission for all the declarations concerning moldova and the steps the commission wants to take in the future. being from poland i know how important such steps are and the declarations on strengthening weak democracy in transition in their countries. the developments in moldova are important for its people but are also very important for the entire region. this is what i want to stress. during the transition process the reforms are very fragile in many post-soviet countries and the successes in moldova will be an important example and an important signal to other pro-reformist groups in the post-soviet region. talking about the fragility of the government right now and the situation in moldova, we have to remember experiences at the beginning of the 1990s in this country, when the difficult economic situation led to failure to pay pensions and salaries and to a break in reforms. right now we are talking about helping the economic situation but we also have to remember the need to strengthen institutions. at the heart of all democracies are the institutions: political institutions, institutions concerning the rule of law, the judiciary system and the freedom of the press. poland has recently done much to help moldova during the elections and prior to them, but i think in particular we have to use the eastern partnership as an appropriate measure, because it offers many possibilities. i think that not only is the commission taking important steps but we in parliament – when we receive all the documents – also need to speed up our process and our decisions, to help resolve the situation.
in writing. the republic of moldova is a very important partner for the european union, and its internal situation affects the stability of the entire region. in the future, the new government wants to join the european union, and we must support it to keep the changes taking place in this country on track. in this context, it is crucial to seize the opportunity offered by cooperation within the eastern partnership, including the signing of an association agreement and visa liberalisation. the union must remember the importance of supporting the post-soviet countries in their efforts to democratize their political life.
madam president! i think that the debate today is going on in a pattern, that we are mainly thinking about how to treat the symptoms of a serious situation in georgia. georgia is one of those places where the european union's reputation as a major force on the international stage is being decided today. the truth is that sarkozy's plan is not respected, it has already been transferred to the historical archives. the truth is that russia is moving forward with military integration with abkhazia and ossetia. the truth is that the union is not able to establish itself as a serious force capable of expressing its views on the situation in georgia, and the best proof of this is that in today's debate commissioner ferrero-waldner is not taking part, but commissioner orban is presenting his position, and the president of the commission seems to consider this matter to be of little importance, because she is very restrictive in terms of the time and the possibilities of expressing her views on this issue.
member of the commission. − i would like to be very brief and start by saying that, as has been stated by many speakers, the principle of territorial integrity of georgia is fundamental in the actions we take, it is an essential issue that we have in mind in all the steps we take. i would like to be very clear in saying that the commission will continue in various ways to support cooperation and links with georgia, enabling this country to move forward, to move closer to the european union. this support and these efforts will be, as i said, on several levels. we will continue to be present at the geneva negotiations, where there is a political dialogue involving all the parties, which is essential to resolving this situation; we will also continue to provide assistance to displaced persons; we are also preparing to launch negotiations on the association agreement, including a free trade agreement and, of course, including issues related to visa facilitation. i would like to conclude by saying that in preparing for these negotiations we naturally want the georgian authorities to meet certain conditions, certain obligations relating to the rule of law, respect for human rights, respect for fundamental rights and, of course, other economic and trade-related conditions.
first, some important information about the 2009 sakharov prize. at its meeting this morning, the conference of presidents of the european parliament elected the memorial organisation of oleg orlov, sergei kowalov, ludmilla alexeieva and all the human rights defenders in russia represented by the organisation as the laureate of the 2009 sakharov prize. we gave this year's award to memorial. we strongly believe that by doing so, we will help to break the ring of fear, insecurity and violence surrounding human rights defenders in the russian federation. we wanted to reinforce our message that civil society activists around the world must be free to exercise their most basic rights, such as freedom of thought, speech, and even the written word. we must have the freedom to pursue our thoughts, because it is essential to the search for truth. i wanted to share with you the great satisfaction of announcing this prize as the president of the european parliament and also as a man of solidarity. we had serious problems, very similar to those faced by our colleagues and our partners in the russian federation today. i'm so glad that in the end, truth always wins and freedom always wins. this was the case in many countries of central and eastern europe. the fact that russian truth-seekers today cannot freely pursue their activities is a great problem for the whole of europe, and a personal tragedy for them. this award is intended to express our strong support for their work. (applause) i would like to add a few general remarks: since 1988, more than 20 years ago, in the spirit of andrei sakharov, the european parliament has awarded the annual prize for freedom of thought to honour individuals or organisations for their contribution and development to the protection of human rights and fundamental values. today we also remember all those extraordinary people who, through their own efforts and sacrifice, are standing up to the cruel realities of oppression, persecution, exile. these are often the so-called ordinary people who demonstrate extraordinary courage and sacrifice. often they risk a great deal, including their own lives. we have given this award to writers, journalists, politicians, professors, lawyers, organizations fighting for the freedom of labor, and even to an association of women protesting against enforced disappearances. freedom of thought is a universal value. i would like to take this opportunity to say that the two candidates who did not win the sakharov prize this year have our full support and should also be mentioned as people who have been particularly strong in our memory. the fact that we discussed their names, that they were among us, in the midst of so many conversations, says a lot about our great attachment to what they did. so not only the grand prize winner, but also those who made the list, they deserve our great respect and our great appreciation. (laughter) (applause) the award ceremony will take place on wednesday 16 december in strasbourg.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen! that order has been established in advance and has been carefully checked, but i would like to ask the rapporteur to comment. please, you have a voice as the person who knows best.
(...) to get us to the polls. this is the opinion of our services who investigated the case and your reporter. that's why i'm proposing we take a vote. - before we begin the vote on amendment 812:
thank you, lord. it's obviously a matter of the financial resources we have. so the decision on this matter is serious. we'd love to help, but we need to know what resources we have. there's a motion to vote on 812 first, that's the motion. i would like to ask the rapporteur to comment on this. what are the financials, the financial possibilities?
thank you, lord. we understand what you said. we had a very clear voting system. i ask the rapporteur to speak. according to the service and our assessment, the second amendment is invalid. can the rapporteur confirm that?
it's all right, man. we'll all be guided by it. maybe i'm reading the numbers too fast. i'll read the numbers slower. thank you, sir. - before we begin the vote on amendment 937:
thank you very much. thank you. fellow workers! in particular, during voting, we can only come in on what is called a point of order. please do not make any comments other than points of order, because if you make any other comments, we cannot vote. it bothers us a lot, it bothers all of us. (laughter) (applause)
it stands for ‘common market organisation’, although it will be slightly different in different languages!
mr. chairman, please! after many months of waiting, long discussions in the european parliament's committee on agriculture, and massive protests by farmers in various member states, we have adopted additional forms of support for milk farmers. but that is not satisfactory, because farmers have suffered enormous losses, many of them have been brought to the brink of bankruptcy, the authority of the union has been affected, and so have we members. was it meant to be? why did the commission take so long to react? does that mean we don't have proper market monitoring? this is a bad sign of the efficiency of the eu administration. we members have been raising this problem for many months. remember, delayed intervention is much less effective and more costly. we should learn from this for the future. finally, we need to create long-term stability for this difficult, labor-intensive and costly production that is milk production. it's our duty to the hardworking farmers.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of amending the regulation establishing the common organisation of agricultural markets, although i doubt whether the new way of calculating penalties for exceeding national quotas should apply from 1 april this year. it's a reversal of the law, it's a violation of the rule of law. however, i voted in favour of this amendment because it provides for a subsidy of eur 280 million for milk producers. this gives hope that the worst is over for the dairy farmers. however, the fundamental question remains as to the future of milk production in the european union, and the most important issue is the future of quotas. there are contradictions in the commission's actions at the moment. on the one hand, the proposal to increase the quotas and to abolish the quota in the 15th year. on the other hand, the proposal voted on today is a proposal to restrict supply. we have to make a decision. i'm all for extending the quotas.
in writing. - i fully support the resolution on the situation in sis ii and vis. the extension of sis ii is continuing and numerous technical failures have already delayed the entry of new countries into the schengen system. it is necessary for the european parliament to monitor continuously the progress made in the establishment of sis ii and vis. sis ii is a key policy project for the union as a whole. its long-awaited launch and smooth functioning is essential to further enlarge the schengen area and thus ensure the freedom of movement of the next full citizens of the union (bulgaria, romania, cyprus, liechtenstein). the sis ii is also crucial in the fight against crime and illegal immigration. thanks to poland's entry into the schengen area, the border guard detained half as many illegal aliens as in the same period last year in the first half of 2008 (data from the ministry of interior's 2008 report). more than 350 persons wanted by the european arrest warrant (eaw) were also detained on polish territory, and about 600 persons wanted by the polish justice system were arrested abroad. the missing children database, which is not present in sis i, is of particular importance in sis ii. our credibility in the eyes of the public depends on the implementation of such important projects. the common europe cannot afford further delays and neglect.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when captain camara took over the military junta that seized power in guinea late last year after the death of president conté, the international community was sadly naive to believe that captain camara would lead to free, democratic presidential elections in which he would not run. today we know that when on september 28th more than 50,000 opposition supporters gathered at the national stadium to protest against the change of decision, the breaking of the word given by captain camará, soldiers were sent to meet them. over 150 people have been killed, over 1,200 injured, and we have a number of rape cases. i am pleased that javier solana, the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, has spoken so quickly. i express my gratitude to the french government for breaking off military cooperation with guinea. but three weeks have passed since the massacre, and the effects of these actions are not visible. that is why i believe that the european union should focus on putting pressure on guinea, together with the un and the african union, and apply the most drastic sanctions possible. only then can we speak of captain camaras handing over power.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we were talking about guinea two weeks ago. but the situation in this country still demands our attention and our response. on monday this week, the committee on development heard an eyewitness account of the events of september 28th, former prime minister and leader of the opposition ufdg party, mr. diallo. i think it's not enough to call on the junta to respect freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, or human rights in general. if the junta respected these principles, these values, it wouldn't be a junta, so we can't expect it to heed such a call. a man of action, and such is captain dadis camara, can only be stopped by action, not words. that is why i am calling on the european commission to act.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at least 157 people were killed and more than 1,200 injured in the september crackdown by the guinean army against peaceful opposition demonstrations at the stadium in conakry. this is the worst massacre since guinea gained independence in 1958. when he took office last december, camara promised to crack down on corruption, anarchy, and then return to power through democratic elections. today, the military junta continues to rule the country without respect for the basic principles of the rule of law and basic human rights. gangs of soldiers regularly commit robberies, muggings, and rapes. as representatives of democratic states, we must demand the immediate resignation of the junta and the punishment of those responsible for the bloody murder of civilians, the impunity of mass shootings and the public rape of women. guinea is a country with great economic potential. yet it is one of the poorest countries in the world and the most corrupt in africa, and continued dictatorial rule by a military junta could lead to civil war and destabilization across west africa.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to use this time to express our concern over the situation in iran and especially of iranian opposition members in camp ashraf in iraq, which has been the symbol of resistance for people in iran. the iraqi government should stop following the orders of the mullahs in tehran. iraq should understand that the iranian regime has no future and is holding on to power for repression and executions. so, if iraq is a sovereign country, they should respect and implement the european parliament resolution of 24 april 2009 on ashraf, which calls on iraq to stop any forcible displacement of ashraf residents within iraq. the mullahs in tehran want ashraf to be destroyed, and we in europe must support these defenceless iranian refugees. it is our moral duty. we should ask the eu presidency and the commission to ask the un to become more involved by sending a permanent team – and even a peacekeeping force – there to prevent more attacks and prevent these people being moved by force to other parts of iraq.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to call on the european union not to remain passive in the face of human rights violations in iran. the european union should be much more determined to oppose the sentences and executions carried out there, especially those of juvenile offenders and juvenile offenders. the response to what is happening in iran today is one of the most important tests of effectiveness for our western world. the european commission should therefore establish a european union delegation in tehran as soon as possible to support and strengthen the dialogue with the authorities and civil society in iran, in particular to assist young people, political prisoners and journalists. the european commission should be much more involved in the deployment of a special envoy by the un high commissioner for human rights to monitor the situation of political prisoners and ensure that the iranian authorities comply with international procedural standards and legal human rights obligations. the european union will always be the banner of civil liberties and our common democratic european values, also beyond our borders. it should therefore make every effort through intensive dialogue with the political elites to ensure that fundamental human rights and respect for the right to life are respected in iran in the 21st century.
on behalf of the s&d group. in may of this year, after the government defeated the tamil tigers, it seemed that the sri lankan civil war had finally ended after many years. but the reality is that many of the country's problems are still unresolved. government authorities have politically detained more than 250,000 people in camps that are off limits to even humanitarian organizations. there is a crackdown on the media. in september this year, the colombo high court sentenced one of the journalists to 20 years in prison, which was deemed by the union presidency to threaten freedom of speech and strongly condemned. the country's development is also hampered by landmines, which threaten the lives and health of the population. meanwhile, sri lanka is still not a party to the ottawa convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines. signing the document would certainly help to solve this problem and would at the same time allow the country to apply for aid for mine victims and accelerate the ongoing, ineffective mine clearance campaign in the country since 2003. the people of sri lanka deserve a true democracy and a normal life.
before we begin, i should like to say that i have exchanged views with president havel, and i can assure you that we could not have imagined something like this 25 years ago! (applause)
former president of the czech republic. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the invitation and for the opportunity to speak to you on the twentieth anniversary of the dramatic breaking down of border barriers, the cutting of barbed wire, the demolition of the wall between european nations and, in the case of germany, the wall between two parts of the same nation. it was the end of the bipolar divide, not just in europe, but in much of the world. it was a moment so historically important that many felt that from this moment on, there would be peace and the world would only flourish. it didn't happen, the story didn't end, of course. it is all the more important to see this anniversary not only as a call to reflect on the present but, above all, as a call to reflect on the future. i shall add five comments on the subject of european integration. for such a surprisingly rapid fall of the iron curtain, none of us were and could have been completely prepared. it would be against nature. and so there was a phase of certain embarrassment, of exploring different alternatives, of uncertainty. later, nato boldly expanded to include new members, anchoring them securely and helping them focus on preparing to join the european union. later, the union really began to open up to the new democracies of central and eastern europe. he has had some trouble with these countries from time to time. it's more than understandable. a democratic political culture cannot be created or restored overnight. it takes a long time, and there are a lot of unexpected problems to solve. communism was in power for the first and hopefully the last time in modern history, and so for the first time we were also faced with the phenomenon of post-communism. we had to face the consequences of a long reign of fear and all the dangers associated with a historically unprecedented redistribution of property. there are many obstacles, and the experience of such a state of affairs is still in its infancy. still, i think the west did the right thing. any other alternative would have been more troublesome and costly, not only for him but for everyone. not only could a new struggle for spheres of influence or even dominance over each other develop in earnest, but the states that remained outside the western gates would most likely become the breeding grounds of various nationalists and populists, as well as their armed militias, and perhaps the site of dangerous local conflicts, all the more dangerous since, for obvious reasons, no real peace conference has ever been held since the second world war to bindingly, precisely and permanently adjust post-war conditions in europe. i think many of those who have been brandishing flags with sickles and hammers in their hands until recently would be able to grab the national flag very quickly. we could see where this path leads in the former yugoslavia. but demons, as we know, always awaken other demons. so no one knows if the disease will spread to western europe. we live in a time when any local conflict - thanks to globalisation - can easily escalate into a global one. the procedure chosen was therefore the most natural and practical one in history. moreover, it was a move that could also be interpreted as an expression of reflected shared responsibility for recent developments, the origins of which included some short-sighted concessions by the democratic world. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that whatever concerns the european union has today are worth accepting, because any alternative to the present course of events would be much worse and more dangerous. the only thing we can ask of europe in this respect is for understanding and patience. the question is, of course, what can we offer europe? i have long believed that after what we have undergone in the totalitarian system, we should or we are directly obliged to explain this experience convincingly to others and to turn everything that follows from it into concrete impulses. it's not easy, and i'm not sure we've succeeded so far. for totalitarian or authoritarian forms of government have very subtle beginnings and very sophisticated ways of controlling society. only now, with the passage of time, are many of us realizing how sophisticatedly we have sometimes been entangled in totalitarian networks. all of which requires us to exercise extreme caution. it should be our contribution to ensuring that what we've been through can never happen again. what does it require? first of all, a clear and unequivocal solidarity with all those who today face totalitarian or authoritarian regimes anywhere in the world. no economic or other particular interests should prevent such solidarity. even a small, subtle and well-intentioned compromise can even after a long time and indirectly have its fatal consequences. evil cannot be given a chance, for by its very nature, it will exploit any opportunity to give it a chance. europe has had its share of bad experiences with appeasement policies. to free-thinking people or to outspoken witnesses of conditions in north korea, burma, iran, tibet, belarus, cuba, or elsewhere, our support may help more than we think. but it will help us too. it will help us to prepare a better world and at the same time to be better ourselves, that is, to better embody the concrete content of the values we profess in general. the european parliament recently awarded the sakharov memorial prize to the russian community monitoring human rights in russia. i think it was an important act. i remember what it meant in my country when the president of france invited us to a working breakfast during his state visit, against the will of the leadership of the state. it's all about the surface. in totalitarian conditions, it's just that one breakfast or one suppressed student demonstration can, under certain circumstances, set history in motion. each of us, beyond our own unique identity as a being, is also made up of several layers of our shared identity. to a greater or lesser degree, each of us is also shaped by our family, community, country, company, church, association or political party, our nation, our civilization, and finally the inhabitants of this planet. all of this points to some type of home, whether geographic, ideological, linguistic, ethnic or otherwise, all of which we are co-created with. and to all of this, we must also add our different types of patriotism, our goals, our affinities, our inclinations, our pride, our characters, our traditions, our customs, our habits, our peculiarities. the world is diverse, the human race is diverse, and each of us is diverse. of course, this shared responsibility also gives rise to shared sovereignty. we have some sovereignty on all levels of our identity, but we don't have, and we can't have, complete sovereignty on any. the only thing that is going on is that these sovereignties should complement each other and, as far as possible, not contradict each other. you can imagine why i am making this point here: the debate on the european constitution and the treaty of lisbon is largely centred on the question of the relationship between national and european sovereignty. the answer is clear: they should complement each other. just because i feel european doesn't mean i'm not czech. on the contrary, as a czech, i am also a european. i am saying in a rather poetic way that europe is the homeland of our homelands. i am convinced that european sovereignty will gradually be strengthened in the future. i don't know if it's faster or slower, i don't know what turns and twists it's going to take, but i know that the integration process has to continue. it is in the vital, even existential, interest not only of europeans but of all. the reasons are obvious: we live in a single global civilization, where it doesn't matter whether the owner of a greenland fishing business lives in taiwan and owns a piece of a bank in brazil or the owner of a czech mine runs his business from a computer in iceland. in such an area, the various transnational, supranational and continental communities play and will play an increasingly important role. there is not and will not be an end to nation states, only these states are coming together and will continue to come together and act in many ways together. technological and economic development will simply force it. on the other hand, at a time when the world is moving towards a dangerous unification, the formation of various smaller communities of states and peoples, which are in some way close to each other, can be one of the instruments for better defending their national or regional identities. the free and non-violent association of states also enhances peaceful coexistence. or were most of the wars of recent centuries wars between nation-states? what better way to tame the various national rages than by the practical cooperation of nations? however, the principle of multi-layered sovereignty can only be accepted against the background of civil and political identification with it. i have noticed that in our country - and probably in many other countries - we often talk about the czechs and the czechs, and that they are some kind of evil foreigners in brussels. but aren't we in brussels too? this division between us as a priori good people and as evil people who want to harm us at any cost reveals only one thing: a poor understanding of the very principle of integration. so, too, we must face it patiently. we're on the same ship, and that ship has a good heading. and it will be as long as all its passengers share responsibility and do not play their own game and play for themselves. we do not gain significance or uniqueness in a community by shouting about our unspecified national interests, masking only a lack of inner confidence, but by a meaningful way of being among others and participating in a common work. europe has been the main center of civilization on this planet for many centuries, and if it wasn't, it certainly thought it was. so she felt entitled to export her culture, her religion, and her inventions to the world, regardless of whether anyone wanted it. moreover, the export of these values has often been accompanied by violence. it is even possible to say that the whole of modern civilization - not only with all its greatness, but also with its present short-sightedness - has its origins in europe. europe should learn from this and build on it in new ways. that is, he will no longer impose anything on the world, but will only try to inspire it. just offer him an example that others can take from, or not take from. it is hard to find a place on this earth where so many nations or ethnic groups, so many minorities and minorities in minorities, are concentrated in different states. yet, in recent decades, europe has managed to create perhaps the strongest transnational alliance that we can see in the world today. and, most importantly, this union did not come about as it has always been throughout history, as the product of the rape of the weak by the strong. on the contrary, it was the product of a substantive agreement. so integration has moved from the battlefield to the conference rooms. if nothing else, this alone can serve as a great challenge to the rest of the world. i mentioned the increased importance of transnational agencies in today's world. i see the optimal political order for the coming decades in the creative partnership of these larger transnational or continental entities, based on a certain common moral rather than political minimum. but for these relationships to be meaningful, they must be based on two basic principles: complete equality between the parties and maximum honesty. a relationship where for some practical reason - for example, the fear that the oil or gas supply might be interrupted - someone puts on blinders and forgets all the murdered free-thinking journalists and all the other nasty things that they would have liked to talk about under other circumstances is not a partnership. because it's based on a lie. true partners must be able to tell each other everything they think, the whole truth, and they must also be able to listen to it in its entirety. european integration, which has allowed the greater part of our continent to live in peace for so long, is indeed a unique attempt at democratic cohesion. it's not, and it's not going to be, a pure federation, or even a traditional confederation. it's just something new. may this experience be instructive to others! but that's not the point. i believe that the european union has a chance to inspire the rest of the world with something much deeper than just its model of cooperation between nations. this possibility is the consistent attempt to rectify all the issues, which has predetermined or influenced the whole character of contemporary civilization. it's a movement that may be starting a little bit. i mean a shift away from the cult of profit at any cost and regardless of its long-term and irreversible consequences, a shift away from the cult of quantitative growth and growth growth, a shift away from the primitive ideal of catching up and outdoing america or china or anyone else, as well as a shift away from dangerously unconceptual colonization of the earth and mindless plundering of the planet with no regard for the environment and the interests of future generations. i am, of course, referring to the ingenious conservation of energy, where the success of a state is measured not by the growth of its consumption, but by its decline. but all this is possible only if something begins to change in the very soul of the modern european. he should be a little more humble in the face of the latest discoveries in cosmology, and think about what he will be when he dies, and bow before the mystery of the universe and of being alone, and in short, relate more to eternity and infinity, as he did in the early stages of european development. we should seriously consider that nothing that has happened can ever be forgotten, that everything is remembered somewhere, even if only in the form of a passing light, and that therefore nothing is forgiven forever. but back to europe as a partner of others: the vast majority of wars in the observable history of the human race have been wars over borders, or territories. the important lesson here is that not only nation states but also the transnational community should always be clear about where they start and where they end. blurred or disputed borders are a common source of misfortune. the european union should also bear this in mind. therefore, it should also be clear about its external boundaries. if he wants to tear down the border, he's got to know where it is first. the idea of geographical self-identification would therefore be promoted on a broader, that is, planetary scale. it should thus make a significant and very tangible contribution to what we all desire: peace among the peoples and nations of this planet. the issue of shared sovereignty is the one most frequently raised in european debates as a matter of the union's institutional set-up. i respect the energy and the achievements of the union in recent years. that is why i dare to look into the distant future. this parliament, which you sit in, is directly elected, and the number of seats each state seeks to match its size. i think that the european parliament should have a little more power than it does today, as the only body directly elected by all europeans. legislative work should therefore move more clearly from the executive to the legislature. the european parliament must not be seen as a mere ornament of the union. however, i believe that in time there could be another, smaller body alongside it, elected from among the representatives of the national parliaments, with all the member states represented by an equal number of their members. in this or similar way, two things could be solved at once: first, the feeling that the various national parliaments feel that they are excluded from european decision-making would be eliminated. secondly, there would be only one body of the union, guaranteeing the complete equality of all the member states. of course, such a body would meet only very rarely, only when a certain number of members request it, and only on matters requiring consensus. moreover, this solution would make it possible to avoid the complexity of the commission's composition according to the national key and the complexity of the european council's vote counting. i must confess that it would be more important for me personally that the commissioners were indeed the best experts in their field than that they were at all costs my countrymen or even fellow countrymen. as for the european council, it is today a peculiar combination of executive and representative power. her status should be clearer, too. it seems to me that it would be closer to the specific position of the heads of state in a parliamentary democracy, that is to say, a kind of semi-concealed and positional collective head of the state, whose visible and understandable representative would, of course, be an individual, namely the president, whose existence is already envisaged by the treaty of lisbon and who is very important: note that where a collective leadership of the state appears, it is usually threatened with disintegration. i'm not saying that this is the case with the transnational community, but i feel that somewhere at the very top there should be a single human face that represents the whole complex complexity and that helps us understand it better. i have said many times that i would like to see a european constitution that is thin, clear and readable, that even schoolchildren can understand, and that everything else - which is now thousands of pages - is just an annex. the charter of fundamental rights, as a text which formulates the values or ideals to which the union is committed, with which it seeks to be in harmony, which it has in mind in its decisions, would naturally have to be an organic part, or even the first part, of such a constitution. ladies and gentlemen, allow me one last remark, which will kind of bring me back to where i started. from a distance, the european union looks like a very technocratic body, concerned only with economics and money. the eternal speculation about budgets, quotas, tariffs, taxes, trade rules and regulations of all kinds are probably necessary and i do not disdain them at all. i even think that the famous guidelines or standards for making goulash - the usual reason for the eurosceptic mockery - are meant to protect something czech or hungarian rather than an attack on the member state and its identity. however, i think that the union should place an ever stronger or more visible emphasis on what is really most important. i mean, on my spiritual and value foundations. it is an unprecedented attempt to build a great and original transnational community based on respect for human freedom, human dignity, on the basis of real democracy, not just a sham or formal democracy, on the basis of trust in common sense, decency, the ability to have a dialogue on equal terms within this community and with anyone else. and of course, respect for the peoples, their traditions, their achievements, the countries they inhabit, their homes, including the landscape in which these homes are located. and of course, respect for human rights and human solidarity. europe's rich spiritual and cultural history - based on a combination of elements from the ancient world, judaism, christianity, islam and, later, the renaissance and the enlightenment - has formed a set of unquestionable values that the european union professes, but which it often sees only as a pretty veneer of what is really going on. but are not these the values that they pursue first and that guide everything else? i'm not advocating anything revolutionary, anything revolutionary, anything radical, but i'm not advocating anything revolutionary. i am only advocating a deeper reflection on the very origins of european unification, a more vigorous cultivation of our european identity, an articulated attitude to a moral order that goes beyond the world of our immediate benefits or a world that is simply aimless and determined by quantitative indicators of prosperity. for 20 years, europe has not been cut in half. i firmly believe that it will never again allow itself to be divided, but will instead be the space and the initiator of ever deeper solidarity and cooperation. may the schiller ode to joy for us and our descendants cease to be a poem celebrating friendship between people and grow into a suggestive sign of our common effort to make the world more human. (the delegates stood and applauded the speaker.)
former president of the czech republic. − mr president, members of parliament, thank you for your invitation and the opportunity to speak to you as we mark the twentieth anniversary of the dramatic breaking down of the closed borders, the cutting of the barbed wire, the demolishing of walls between the european nations and, in the case of germany, of the wall dividing two parts of the same nation. it was the end of the bipolar division not only of europe but, to a large measure, of the world as a whole. it was such a historically important moment that quite a few people had the impression that henceforth calm would reign and the world would thrive and prosper. that did not happen. history did not stop there, of course. and that makes it even more important to view the present anniversary not only as an invitation to reflect on the present, but above all as a challenge to consider what the future holds. i would like to contribute to that reflection five remarks on the theme of european unification. no one was fully prepared for such an astonishingly rapid collapse of the iron curtain. nor could they have been. it would have been unnatural. and so there ensued a phase of perplexity, a search for various alternatives, and uncertainty. then nato took the bold step of taking in new members, thereby affording them security and enabling them to concentrate on preparing to join the european union. subsequently the eu did indeed start to open its doors to the new democracies of central and eastern europe. from time to time those countries cause it headaches of various kinds. but that is perfectly understandable. a democratic political culture cannot be created or renewed overnight. it takes a long time and throws up all sorts of unanticipated problems in the meantime. communism ruled just once in modern times (and, hopefully, it was the last time), but that meant that the phenomenon of post-communism was also a new experience for us. we had to confront the consequences of the rule of fear that lasted for so many years, as well as all the risks relating to a redistribution of property without precedent in our history. so there were and still are many obstacles and we are only now acquiring the experience we need to deal with such a state of affairs. i believe, nonetheless, that the west went about things in the right way. any other approach would have given rise to even more anxieties for the west and for everyone, and would also have been more costly. not only was there a real risk of a new struggle being triggered over spheres of influence, or the actual domination of one group by another, but the states that remained outside the western gates would most likely have turned into a stamping ground for various nationalists and populists, along with their armed militias, and also possibly a place of dangerous local conflicts, which would have been all the more dangerous in that, for well-known reasons, no real peace conference took place after world war ii to decide on a binding, precise and lasting post-war settlement in europe. i think that many a hand that until recently had held up a flag with the hammer and sickle would have been capable, without much ado, of reaching for a national flag instead. we were able to see where that path could lead in the former yugoslavia. demons, as is well known, always awaken other demons. so no one can tell whether that contagion would not soon have infected the western half of europe. and we live in a period of history when, as a result of globalisation, any local conflict could easily develop into a global one. so the approach adopted was the most natural in historical terms, and the most advantageous in practical terms. moreover, it was an approach that could also be interpreted as an expression of thoughtful shared responsibility for the way things had evolved in the recent past, which were partly due, in their origins, to short-sighted concessions on the part of the democratic world. to sum up then: however bothersome we might have been to the european union up to the present, it is worth putting up with it, because any alternative to the course of events to date would most likely have been much worse and much more dangerous. in the circumstances, all one can ask of europe is patience and understanding. however, the real question is what we can offer europe. it has long been my opinion that after what we endured under the totalitarian system, we need – we are duty-bound, even – to convincingly convey this experience to others and to make specific suggestions based on its various implications. it is not an easy task and i am not sure we have made a good job of it to date. the point is that totalitarian or authoritarian forms of government tend to have very inconspicuous beginnings and employ very ingenious means of controlling society. only now, with hindsight, do many of us realise how deviously we were entangled in the totalitarian web. that all obliges us to be particularly circumspect. this should be our contribution to guaranteeing that what we went through will never be repeated. what does it require? above all, clear and unequivocal solidarity with anyone anywhere in the world who is confronted by totalitarian or authoritarian regimes. no economic or other particular interests should stand in the way of such solidarity. even a minor, discreet and well-intentioned compromise can have fatal consequences – even if only in the long term, or indirectly. one must not retreat in the face of evil, because it is in the nature of evil to take advantage of every concession. besides, europe has already had its own unfortunate experience of appeasement policies. our support can help liberal-minded people or outspoken witnesses to the situation in north korea, burma, iran, tibet, belarus, cuba or anywhere else, much more than we think. but it will help us too. it will help us build a better world and also to be more true to ourselves; in other words, to put into practice the values that we proclaim in general terms. recently, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to memorial, the russian association that monitors how human rights are respected in russia. i think that was a significant act. i recall how important it once was in my country when, against the will of the government, the french president invited us – the opposition – to a working breakfast during his state visit. these things might seem superficial; but that is how it is in totalitarian regimes: a single breakfast or a single suppressed student demonstration can – in certain circumstances – set history moving our identity is created not only by what is unique to us as individuals, but also by certain so-called shared layers of identity. the identity of each of us is moulded, to a greater or lesser extent, by our membership of family, community, region, firm, church, association, political party, nation, sphere of civilisation, and, last but not least, of the planetary community. all this has to do with various sorts of homes we can have: based on geographical location, or on opinion, language and ethnic or other grouping. these all help create us. it is also connected with our various types of patriotism, our goals, affinities, inclinations, sources of pride, our emblems, traditions, customs, habits and peculiarities. in short, the world is full of diversity, and that is equally true of humankind at large and each and every one of us. these shared affiliations are also the origin of shared sovereignty, of course. at each level of our identities we have a certain measure of sovereignty, but at none of them do we have absolute sovereignty, nor can we have. the only thing that matters is that these sovereignties should be mutually complementary and that, as far as possible, they should not contradict each other. i am sure you have an inkling of why i am following this train of thought at this particular time: after all, the debates about the european constitution and the lisbon treaty centre to a large extent on the issue of what the relationship should be between national and european sovereignty. the answer is obvious: the two should complement each other. after all, the fact that i feel myself to be a european does not mean that i stop being a czech. on the contrary: as a czech i am also a european. i tend to say somewhat poetically that europe is the “homeland of our homelands”. at the same time i am convinced that european sovereignty will gradually grow stronger in the future. how quickly this will happen i cannot say. nor do i know what sort of circuitous route it will take. but i do know that the process of integration must continue, because it is in the fundamental, nay existential, interest of everyone, not just the europeans. the reasons are obvious: we are part of a single global civilisation in which it matters little whether the owner of a fishing business in greenland lives in taiwan and owns part of a bank in brazil, or that the owner of mines in the czech republic runs his operations from a computer in iceland. in such a context various supranational or continental associations are playing and will play increasingly important roles. this is not the end of nation states, neither now nor in the future. they will simply continue to come together and act jointly in many areas. technological and economic developments will quite simply demand it. on the other hand, at a time when the world is heading towards an unhealthy unification, the establishment of various smaller associations of states and nations, sharing certain affinities, can be one of the instruments for ensuring better protection of their national or regional identities. the gradual and non-coercive grouping of states naturally strengthens peaceful coexistence as well. or were the majority of wars in recent centuries perhaps not wars between nation states? how better to restrain various national demons than by practical co-operation among nations? however, the only way the principle of multilayered sovereignty can be accepted is if there is civic and political identification with it. i have observed that in my country, and most likely in many other countries too, people often talk about 'sus' – in my case, the czechs – and 'them', meaning those nasty foreigners in brussels – as if we weren’t in brussels too! this division into 'us', the good guys by definition, and 'them', the bad guys intent on doing us harm at all costs, is evidence of just one thing: a lack of understanding of the very principle of integration. so that too is something that needs to be tackled with patience. we are all in the same boat and that boat is steering a good course. and it will continue to do so as long as all its passengers share the responsibility and do not each play their own game and make their own interests paramount. making a lot of noise about not very clearly specified national interests, which simply serves to disguise a lack of self-confidence, is not the way to acquire prestige or a unique position in the existing community. that can be achieved only by purposeful interaction with others and involvement in the common cause. for many centuries, europe was the centre of civilisation on this planet, and even when it was not, it definitely thought it was. it therefore felt entitled to export its culture, its religion and its inventions to the entire world regardless of whether or not anyone wanted them. furthermore, on numerous occasions, these values were exported by force. in fact one can go so far as to say that the entire civilisation of modern times – with all the splendid things this means for the world, but also and equally with its present short-sightedness – originated in europe. that should all be a lesson for europe, which should find a new way to draw inspiration therefrom, no longer imposing things on the world but simply seeking to be a source of inspiration for it. it can offer an example that others can choose to follow, but are not obliged to. it would be hard to find on this planet a region where so many nations or ethnic groups are concentrated, not to mention all the minorities and minorities within minorities. nevertheless, over recent decades europe has managed to create maybe the firmest supranational union in the world today. and yet – and this is the most important thing – this union did not come into being, as invariably in the past, as a result of the subjugation of the weaker by the stronger. on the contrary it was the product of pragmatic agreement. thus integration has shifted from the battlefield to the conference hall. if nothing else, then this alone can serve as a challenge to the rest of the world. i have mentioned the increased significance of supranational entities in today’s world. what i see as the optimal political order in the coming decades is the creative co-operation and partnership of these larger supranational or continental entities based on a certain common minimum, one that is more moral than political. however, if these relationships are to be meaningful, they must be based on two fundamental principles: total mutual equality and maximum sincerity. a relationship in which, for practical reasons – such as fear that deliveries of crude oil or gas might be disrupted – people place blinkers on their eyes and forget about all the murders of independently minded journalists or all sorts of other unacceptable things – even though in other circumstances they would readily speak of them – is not a relationship of partnership, because it is based on duplicity. real partners must be capable of speaking their mind fully to each other, speaking the whole truth, in other words, and they must also be capable of listening to the whole truth. european integration, thanks to which the greater part of our continent has lived at peace for so long, is truly a unique attempt at the democratic union of states. it is not a pure federation, nor even a traditional confederation, nor will it be soon. it is simply something new. i hope it is an experiment that will prove instructive for others too! but that is not the main point. it is my belief that the european union has a chance to inspire the rest of the world with something much more profound than its model of international co-operation. i refer to the opportunity to consistently strive to remedy all the questionable things with which europe has predetermined or influenced the entire character of contemporary civilisation. this is something which may already have started. what i have in mind is the shift away from the cult of profit at all costs and regardless of its long-term and irreversible consequences, a shift away from the cult of quantitative growth and 'growth of growth', a shift away from the primitive ideal of catching up with or outstripping america or china or anyone else, as well as a shift away from the perilously haphazard settlement of the earth and the mindless plunder of the planet without regard for the environment or the interests of future generations. i am thinking here of course of the ingenious ways we are finding of saving energy, at a time when the success of a state is not measured by the growth, but by the fall, in its consumption. this is only conceivable, however, if something starts to change in the very soul of present-day europeans. in the light of the latest cosmological discoveries they really ought to show a bit more humility, and give some thought to what will happen after their deaths. they ought to show deference to the mystery of the universe and of being per se – in short, they ought to renew a greater relationship with eternity and infinity, as was once the case in the initial phases of european development. we should give serious thought to the fact that nothing that has happened can unhappen, that the memory of everything is retained somewhere, even if only in the form of flying light – and therefore nothing is forgiven for ever. but to return to the question of europe as a partner of others: the overwhelming majority of wars in recorded human history were wars over frontiers or rather territories. this is an important lesson: not only nation states but also supranational communities need to know where they start and where they end. fuzzy or disputed boundaries are often the source of misfortune. that is something the european union should bear in mind too. that is why it, too, should be clear about its external borders. if it wants to break down borders then it must first realise where it lies. the idea of geographical self-identification should therefore be supported on a broader, i.e. a planetary, scale. that would also constitute an important and very specific contribution towards what we all yearn for: peace among the peoples and nations of this planet. in debates on europe, the topic of shared sovereignty is most frequently raised in connection with the institutional organisation of the european union. i respect the energy devoted by the eu to this issue in recent years, as well as the successes it has achieved. for that very reason i will make so bold as to view this question, too, from a longer-term perspective. this parliament in which you sit is directly elected and the number of seats held by the individual states is intended to correspond to their size. i think the european parliament should have somewhat greater powers than it does at present, since it is the only body elected directly by all europeans. thus legislative activity should shift more distinctly away from the executive authority to the legislative authority. the european parliament must not be allowed to appear to anyone as just some costly embellishment of the eu. however, it is my belief that in the future another, smaller body could come into existence, to which national parliaments would elect representatives from amongst their number, with each member state being represented by the same number of members. in this or a similar fashion it would be possible to solve two issues at once: firstly, it would eliminate the feeling that various national parliaments have that they are excluded from european decision-making. secondly, it would ensure that there was one eu body in which the absolute equality of all member countries would be guaranteed. a body such as this would meet only on the rarest of occasions, of course, only when a certain number of members requested it, and only in respect of matters requiring a consensus. moreover, such a solution would mean that the commission would not have to be composed on the basis of such a complicated national ratio, and the european council would not have to count up its votes in such a complex fashion. as i far i personally am concerned, it is more important to me for the commissioners to be truly the best in their fields than for them to be my compatriots at all costs, let alone fellow party members. as far as the european council is concerned, it is currently an odd amalgam of executive and representative authority. its status should also be clarified. it seems to me that it ought to be something like the specific status of heads of state in a parliamentary democracy, in other words, it should be a sort of semi-concealed and semi-overt collective head of the union of states, whose visible representative, intelligible to all, would naturally be an individual, the president, whose existence is already provided for in the lisbon treaty, and who is of great importance: we should bear in mind that wherever some sort of collective state leadership emerges, there is generally a risk of its collapse. i do not suggest that this necessarily applies to supranational communities, but i feel nonetheless that somewhere there should be just one single human face representing that entire complex machinery, one that would ensure that it is all more readily understandable. on numerous occasions i have indicated that i think it would be splendid if, sometime in the future, there existed a short, intelligible and readable european constitution, that even schoolchildren could understand, while the rest, which already amounts to thousands of pages, would simply be addenda to it. naturally, part and parcel of such a constitution, or even the very first section of it, should be a charter of fundamental rights, in the shape of a text setting out the values and ideals to which the european union subscribes, which it seeks to respect and which it bears in mind when taking its decisions. ladies and gentlemen, allow me a fifth and final remark which will bring me back towards where i started. seen from a distance, the european union looks like a very technocratic body busying itself solely with economics and money. the never-ending quibbling over the budget, quotas, customs duties, taxes, trading rules and all sorts of regulations is probably necessary and i do not disdain it in the least. what is more, i actually think that the proverbial recommendations or standards regarding such traditional targets of eurosceptic scorn as the preparation of goulash are intended more as protection of something distinctively czech or hungarian, rather than as an attack on a given member state and its identity. nevertheless, i believe that the european union should place greater and more evident stress on the things are truly of foremost importance, namely its spiritual foundations and values. after all, this is an unprecedented attempt to build a large and original supranational community on the basis of respect for human freedoms and human dignity, on a foundation of genuine and not simply ostensible or formal democracy, trusting in common sense, decency, and the power of equal dialogue within this community and with anyone else outside. and also based, of course, on respect for individual nations, for their traditions and achievements, for the lands they inhabit, for their homes and the landscape in which they are located. and also, of course, on respect for human rights and on human solidarity. europe’s rich spiritual and cultural history – combining elements of antiquity, judaism, christianity, islam and more recently, the renaissance and the enlightenment – has created an array of indisputable values, to which the european union certainly pays lip service, but which it often regards simply as pretty packaging for the things that really matter. but is it not these values that are of the essence? and is it not they that set the direction for everything else? i am not advocating anything revolutionary or radical here. all i am saying is there could be a deeper reflection about the very foundations of european unification, a more emphatic cultivation of our europeanness, and a better articulated relationship to the moral order that transcends the world of our immediate benefit, or a world of mere prosperity going in no particular direction and determined solely by quantitative indicators. for twenty years now, europe has no longer been severed in half. i firmly believe that it will never again allow itself to be divided, but will, on the contrary, provide scope and initiative for ever deeper solidarity and co-operation. my wish is that schiller’s ode to joy should cease to be for us and our descendants simply a poem celebrating friendship among people and be transformed instead into a powerful symbol of our common striving for a more humane world. (sustained applause.)
former president of the czech republic. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your invitation and for the opportunity to address you on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the day when the border barriers were dramatically torn down, the barbed wire was cut and the walls separating the nations of europe and, in the case of germany, the wall dividing the two halves of a single nation were demolished. it marked the end of the bipolar divide not only in europe but also, in a much broader sense, in the whole planet. it was a moment of such historical significance that many felt that peace and prosperity would reign in the world from then on. but it wasn't like that. history, as it could not be otherwise, continued its course. and so it is all the more important, if possible, that we not only see this anniversary as an invitation to reflect on the present, but above all as an opportunity to reflect on what the future holds. i would like to contribute to this reflection by making five comments on the subject of european unification. no one was really prepared for such an incredibly rapid fall of the iron curtain. no one could be. it would have been illogical to do otherwise. so there was a period of perplexity, of searching for different alternatives, of uncertainty. nato took the courageous decision to accept new members, thus guaranteeing their security, allowing them to concentrate on their preparation for joining the european union. later, the eu really began to open its doors to the new democracies of central and eastern europe. these countries sometimes give you headaches of all kinds, but it is perfectly understandable. the democratic political culture cannot be created or renewed overnight. it's a long process, fraught with all kinds of unforeseen events that have to be overcome as you continue to move forward. communism has only been imposed once in modern history - and hopefully the last time too - so the phenomenon of post-communism was new to us. we had to face the aftermath of the reign of fear that had reigned for so many years, as well as the dangers of a redistribution of property unprecedented in our history. the obstacles were many - and still are - and we are only now beginning to gain the experience needed to deal with a situation of this nature. i think, however, that the west did the right thing. any other alternative would have caused much more complication for himself and the rest of the world, and would have been much more costly. it could have led to a new struggle for spheres of influence or for the direct domination of one group over another, and, moreover, the states that would have remained at the gates of the west would probably have become the playground of nationalists and populists accompanied by their armed militias, and perhaps also the scene of dangerous local conflicts; a danger that could have been multiplied by the fact that, after the second world war, for reasons that are well known, no peace conference was held to fix in a binding, precise and lasting way the terms of the post-war europe. i think that many of those who had recently raised a flag with the hammer and sickle waved the national flag with great haste. we have seen in the former yugoslavia where this path can lead. demons - everyone knows - always wake up other demons. so no one knows for sure whether this epidemic could have even spread to the western half of europe. we live in an age when any local conflict, as a consequence of globalisation, can easily become an international conflict. the approach adopted was therefore the most logical from a historical point of view and the most appropriate in practice. it could also be interpreted as an expression of deliberate co-responsibility, the result of the way things had evolved in the more recent past, an evolution whose origins derived in part from a series of concessions that the democratic world had made with a view to the short term. in short, the many problems we have caused the european union so far have been worth it, because any other alternative to the course of events would have been, in all probability, much more dangerous and simply worse. in these circumstances, all that can be asked of europe is patience and understanding. however, what really counts is what we can offer europe. i have long felt that after what we suffered under totalitarian regimes, we needed - i would even say we were obliged to - to share our experience with others, with conviction and in a simple way, and to make concrete recommendations based on its implications. it's not an easy task, and i'm not sure we've achieved it yet. in reality, totalitarian or authoritarian forms of government often come to power quietly and resort to very ingenious methods of controlling society. only now, thanks to the perspective that the passage of time gives us, do many of us realize how far we had let ourselves be caught in the net of totalitarianism. all of this requires us to act with caution. this prudence will enable us to contribute to the achievement of one objective: to ensure that what we suffered will never happen again. how can i do that? above all, we must be clearly and unequivocally in solidarity with all those who, today, anywhere in the world, are faced with a totalitarian or authoritarian regime. such solidarity should not be subordinated to economic or other interests. even a small, discreet and well-intentioned commitment can have fatal consequences, even if these only manifest themselves in the long term and indirectly. in the face of evil we cannot retreat, because evil, by its nature, takes advantage of even the slightest of our concessions. moreover, europe has already had unfortunate experiences when it has tried to impose its peace policies at any cost. our support can help, more than we think, free spirits or witnesses who echo the situation in north korea, burma, iran, tibet, belarus, cuba, etc. but it will also be a help to us. it will help us to build a better world by being true to ourselves, or, in other words, by putting into practice the values we publicly defend. the european parliament recently awarded the sakharov prize to memorial, a russian association which works to ensure that human rights are respected in russia. i think it's a very significant decision. i remember how important it was on one occasion in my country when, against the will of the government, the french president invited us - the opposition - to a working breakfast during his state visit. these are situations that may seem superficial. but that's how things work in a totalitarian regime: a simple breakfast or the suppression of a petty student demonstration can, under certain circumstances, change the course of history. our identity is not only made up of what is unique and unique to us as individuals, but also of what are called shared layers of identity. our identity is also, to a greater or lesser extent, the result of our membership of a family, community, region, company, church, association, political party, nation or civilization, and, of course, of our membership of humanity. all of this is related to the different types of home we can have, whether they are geographical, of opinion, linguistic, ethnic, etc. each and every one of these aspects contributes to making us who we are. identity is also associated with different types of patriotism and our goals, affinities, inclinations, sources of pride, symbols, traditions, customs, habits and peculiarities. in short, the world is diverse, humanity is diverse, and each of us is diverse. of course, this shared ownership is also the origin of shared sovereignty. all levels of our identity contain a certain degree of sovereignty, but in none of them is such sovereignty absolute; in fact, it cannot be. what really matters is that these sovereignties complement each other and, as far as possible, do not oppose each other. i am sure you can imagine why i am raising this series of points now: after all, the debates on the european constitution and the treaty of lisbon are largely concerned with determining the relationship between national and european sovereignty. the answer is obvious: both must be complementary. the fact that i feel european does not mean that i am no longer czech. on the contrary, since i am czech, i am european. i often say in a rather poetic way that europe is the home of our homelands. at the same time, i am convinced that european sovereignty will gradually be strengthened in the future. i do not know whether it will do so quickly or slowly, or what winding roads it will take, but what i do know is that the process of integration must continue, because it benefits us all substantially, or rather, existentially, not just the europeans. the reasons are clear: we are part of a single, globalised civilization in which it makes little difference whether the owner of a greenland fishing company lives in taiwan and owns part of a bank in brazil, or whether the owner of a mine in the czech republic runs it from a computer in iceland. in this context, supranational or continental partnerships play, and will play, an increasingly important role. it is not a question of the disappearance of the nation states, either now or in the future. they will simply continue to associate and act together in different areas. technical and economic developments leave them no choice. moreover, in an age when the world is heading towards disastrous homogenization, the creation of small associations of states and nations, more or less related, may be one of the most effective means of ensuring the protection of regional or national identities. the progressive and non-coercive association of different states also logically strengthens peaceful coexistence. were not most of the wars of the last few centuries conflicts between nation-states? what better way to control nationalist demons than real collaboration between different nations? however, we can only accept the principle of a multi-layered sovereignty if it is associated with a civic and political identity. i have noticed that in my country - and probably in many others - we tend to speak of 'us', in my case the czechs, and 'them', when referring to those evil foreigners in brussels. this distinction between 'us', the good guys, and 'them', the bad guys who want to harm us at all costs, shows the misunderstanding that hangs over the principle of integration. this is a question which we must also tackle with patience. we are all in the same boat; a boat that is sailing in the right direction. and it will stay that way as long as all its passengers take a shared responsibility and do not set out alone for their own benefit. making a lot of noise around vague national interests will not allow us to achieve a unique or prestigious position in the existing community; it only serves to hide the lack of confidence in ourselves. that position can only be achieved through meaningful interaction with others and our commitment to the common cause. for many centuries, europe was the center of world civilization, and even when it wasn't, at least it thought it was. thus, she felt empowered to export her culture, religion, and inventions to the entire world, no matter if others had asked her to do so. and that is not all, for on numerous occasions these values were exported by the use of force. in fact, we could even say that the whole of modern civilization - in all its splendor, but also, and to an equal extent, in its present shortsightedness - was born in europe. europe should learn from all this and find a new way of using this experience, to stop imposing its criteria on the world and become merely a source of inspiration, proposing an example that others can freely choose to follow, without being obliged to do so. it is difficult to find a region on our planet where so many different nations or ethnic groups are concentrated, not to mention all the minorities and the minorities within the minorities. nevertheless, over the past few decades, europe has succeeded in creating what is probably the strongest supranational union in the world today. and yet - and this is the most important thing - this union was not born, as had always happened in the past, of the subjugation of the weaker by the stronger. on the contrary, it was the fruit of a pragmatic agreement. in this way, integration moved from the battlefield to the conference room. this achievement alone is a challenge for the rest of the world. i have already mentioned the growing importance of supranational entities in today's world. i believe that the best possible political order in the coming decades will be achieved through the creative cooperation and partnership of these great supranational or continental entities, based on a few common minimum principles, of a moral rather than a political order. however, for these relations to have any meaning, they must be based on two fundamental principles: total reciprocal equality and the utmost sincerity. a relationship in which for practical reasons - for example, fear of interruption of gas or oil supply - some prefer to look away and forget all the journalists killed for defending freedom of expression or any other similar event, which, in other circumstances, they would have openly denounced, is not a partnership relationship, as it is based on hypocrisy. true partners must be completely honest with each other: they must not hide the truth and they must also be able to listen to it. european integration, which has enabled most of our continent to live in peace for many years, is the only real attempt at democratic union between states. it is not a true federation, not even a traditional confederation; it is still a long way off. it's just something completely new. i hope this experience can serve as an example to others! but that's not the main thing. i believe that the european union can serve as an inspiration to the rest of the world in relation to something much deeper than its model of international cooperation. i am referring to the opportunity it has to strive to correct systematically all the controversial principles by which europe has predetermined or shaped the character of contemporary civilization. this is a process which may have already begun. what i mean is that we must stop idolizing the making of profits at any cost without regard to their irreversible long-term effects, quantitative growth and the 'growth of growth', the old ideal of catching up with or even surpassing the united states, china or any other country that gives us an advantage, as well as the dangerous and arbitrary colonization of the earth and the unreasonable plundering of the planet with no consideration for the environment or the interests of future generations. i am thinking, of course, of the ingenious ways of saving energy that we have discovered, at a time when the success of a state is measured not by the growth, but by the fall, of its consumption. however, all this is only possible if something begins to change within the european people of today. in the light of recent cosmological discoveries, europeans should be a little more humble and think about what will happen after death. they should bow before the mystery of the universe and of being itself. in short, they should be constantly reminded of eternity and infinity, as was the case in the early stages of european development. we must not forget that nothing that has happened can be undone and that the memory of what has happened never completely disappears, even if it is now only a fleeting reminiscence, so nothing is forgiven forever. but let us return to the question of europe as a partner: the overwhelming majority of the wars that have plagued mankind were fought over the control of a border or a territory. we can draw an important lesson from this: not only nation states but also supranational communities must know where their territories begin and end. diffuse or controversial boundaries are often a source of conflict. the european union should bear this in mind. it must therefore define its external borders more precisely. if you want to tear down the borders, you first have to know where they are. so the idea of geographical self-identification should be understood in a much broader context, on a planetary scale. it would also make an important and concrete contribution to the goal we all want: peace between the peoples and nations of this planet. in the debate on europe, the question of shared sovereignty is often discussed in connection with the institutional organisation of the european union. i respect the efforts and achievements of the eu in this field in recent years. and out of this respect, i dare to look at the matter from a long-term perspective. this parliament of which you are a part is elected by direct suffrage and the distribution of seats among the various countries is made according to their size. i believe that the european parliament should have more powers than it does at present, since it is the only body directly elected by all european citizens. the legislative activity should therefore be transferred more clearly from the executive to the legislative. no one should see the european parliament as a simple but costly adornment of the eu. i am convinced, however, that in the future another body, smaller in size, could be created; the national parliaments would elect their representatives to this new body from among their own members and each member state would have the same number of members. this structure, or another of similar characteristics, would allow two questions to be resolved at the same time: first, national parliaments would no longer feel excluded from the european decision-making process and, secondly, there would be a european body in which the absolute equality of all member states would be guaranteed. the body would meet only on exceptional occasions, only when a certain number of members request it and only on matters requiring consensus. moreover, if this solution is adopted, the composition of the commission would no longer have to be based on such a complicated national weighting and the council would not have to count its votes in such a complex way. in my view, it is more important that the commissioners are really the best in their field than that they are my compatriots at all costs or belong to my party. the european council is now a strange mixture of executive and representative authority. their status should also be clarified. it should be similar to the status of heads of state in a parliamentary democracy; in other words, it should be a form of collective, semi-occult and semi-manifest leadership of the union of states, whose visible representative, known to all, is naturally a natural person: the president. this figure, already provided for by the treaty of lisbon, is of great importance: we must not forget that whenever some form of collective leadership emerges, there is generally a risk of collapse. i do not mean that this premise should necessarily apply to supranational communities, but i have the impression, nevertheless, that there should be only one human face representing this complex machinery, which would allow a better understanding of it to be ensured. i have already mentioned more than once that i think it would be great if at some future time there was a short, intelligible and easy-to-read european constitution that even children could understand, and the rest - which already consists of thousands and thousands of pages - would just be annexes to it. of course, part of such a constitution, or even its first section, should be a charter of fundamental rights, which would set out the values and ideals on which the european union is founded, which it advocates and which it takes into account when it makes decisions. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make one last remark to tie in with the beginning of my speech. from a distance, the european union looks like a highly technocratic body dealing only with economic and monetary matters. the endless discussions on the budget, quotas, customs duties, taxes, trade rules and all kinds of regulations are probably necessary, and i will not be the one to dismiss them in the slightest. moreover, i believe that the well-known recommendations or rules on goulash preparation, which are the traditional targets of eurosceptic sarcasm, are in fact intended to protect something typically czech or hungarian and in no way attack a particular member state or its identity. however, i think that the eu should place more emphasis, and more prominently, on what really matters, namely its spiritual foundations and its values. in the end, it is an unprecedented attempt to build a great and exceptional supranational community based on respect for human dignity and freedoms and on a true democracy, not just formal or figurative, but one that is endowed with common sense, honesty and the ability to maintain a dialogue on an equal footing both within and outside the community itself, and also based on respect for individual nations, their traditions and achievements and the territories they occupy, and their homes and the regions in which they are located, as well as respect for human rights and human solidarity. europe's rich spiritual and cultural history, combining elements of antiquity, judaism, christianity, islam and, more recently, the renaissance and the enlightenment, has shaped a set of unquestionable values, which the european union does not tire of repeating - there is no doubt about it - but which often serve only as the pretty wrapper of what it really cares about. but are not these values the very essence of it? are they not the ones who serve as a guide for everything else? i am not advocating anything really revolutionary or radical. i would simply like to invite you to reflect more deeply on the foundations of european unification, to cultivate more of our european specificity and to establish a more articulated relationship with the moral order that goes beyond our immediate benefit, or a world that drifts forward solely driven by the pursuit of prosperity and determined exclusively by quantitative indicators. it is twenty years since we left europe divided in two halves. i firmly believe that europe will never allow itself to be divided again; on the contrary, it will become the pioneer of greater and deeper solidarity and cooperation. my wish is that schiller's "ode to joy" will no longer be for us and our descendants simply a poem celebrating friendship between peoples and will become a powerful symbol of our common struggle for a more humane world. (the house will then rise to its feet and applaud the speaker)
, former president of the czech republic. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for inviting me and giving me the opportunity to speak to you on the 20th anniversary of the day when the border barriers were dramatically breached, the barbed wire cut, the walls that separated the nations of europe and, in the case of germany, the two parts of a country, were torn down. it was the end of the bipolar divide not only of europe but also, to a large extent, of the whole world. this moment was so important to history that everyone felt that from this moment on, calm would reign and the world would only prosper. it didn't happen, the story didn't stop, of course. it is all the more important to see this anniversary as an invitation to reflect on the present, but above all as a call to consider the future. i shall contribute five points on the subject of european unification. no one was and could not be fully prepared for such a sudden fall of the iron curtain. it was against nature. then there was a period of some perplexity, of considering several alternatives, of uncertainty. secondly, nato took the courageous decision to expand to new members, thus providing them with security that helped them to focus on preparing for entry into the european union. later, the union really began to open up to the new democracies of central and eastern europe. these countries occasionally cause various worries, which is quite understandable. the democratic political culture cannot be created or renewed overnight. this is a long process in which many unforeseen difficulties have to be resolved. communism reigned for the first time - and hopefully the last - in modern history and we found ourselves confronted for the first time with the phenomenon of post-communism. we have had to face the aftermath of a long reign of fear and all the risks of a redistribution of property unprecedented in history. many obstacles have been and are still present, and we are only just beginning to gain experience in dealing with this situation. however, i think the west has done the right thing. any other alternative would have caused far more trouble, not only for the west but for everyone, and would also have been more expensive. not only could a new struggle for spheres of influence or for direct domination of one another have developed in a worrying way, but the states that would have remained at the door of the west would very likely have become the playground of various nationalists and populists, with their armed militias, and perhaps also the scene of dangerous local conflicts, all the more dangerous since after the second world war, for known reasons, no real peace conference came to regulate in a binding, precise and lasting way, the conditions of the post-war period in europe. i believe that many of those who a short time ago would have held in their hands the flag with the hammer and sickle would very soon learn to hold a national flag. we have seen in the former yugoslavia where this road leads. demons, as we all know, always wake up other demons. thus, no one knows whether the contagion would not have reached western europe. we live in a time when any local conflict, because of globalization, can easily become an international conflict. the approach adopted was therefore the most natural one from a historical point of view and the most appropriate in practice. moreover, it was a move which could be interpreted as an expression of a deliberate shared responsibility for events in the recent past, the origins of which lay in particular in certain short-sighted compromises in the democratic world. so, in summary, whatever problems we are causing the european union today, they are worth taking on because any alternative to the present course of events would be far worse and far more risky. in these circumstances, europe can only be asked to show understanding and patience. the real question is what we can offer europe. i have long held the view that after what we have suffered under totalitarian regimes, we should - we are obliged - to explain this experience convincingly to others and to turn everything that results into concrete initiatives. it's not easy, and i'm not sure we've gotten this far. in reality, a totalitarian or authoritarian power always has very discreet beginnings and very sophisticated means of controlling society. even today, looking back, many of us realize how ingeniously we were once caught in the snares of totalitarianism. all of this requires us to be especially careful. this caution should be our contribution to ensuring that what we have experienced can never happen again. what does it take? firstly, to show clear and unequivocal solidarity with all those who today, everywhere in the world, are confronted by totalitarian or authoritarian regimes. no commercial or other interest should interfere with this solidarity. even a small, insignificant compromise, made with good intentions, can have disastrous consequences, even in the long run and indirectly. you can't back away from evil because it's in its nature to take advantage of every compromise. europe has had its own disastrous experiences in the politics of peace at any cost. our support can help more than we think free minds or witnesses who speak out loud about the situation in north korea, burma, iran, tibet, belarus, cuba or elsewhere. and it will help us too. this will help us to build a better world while being more true to ourselves, giving more substance to the values we generally claim for ourselves. the european parliament recently awarded the sakharov prize to the russian organization memorial, which monitors the human rights situation in russia. i think it is an important act. i remember a very significant event in my country at the time, when the french president on an official visit invited us, the opposition, to a working breakfast, against the wishes of the government. these are seemingly superficial things, but under totalitarian conditions, it turns out that a breakfast or a suppressed student protest can contribute in certain circumstances to the march of history. multiple layers of our identity, called shared, help create the identity of each of us, in addition to what is unique to us as a being. to a greater or lesser extent, each of us is the result of belonging to a family, a locality, a region, a company, a church, an association or political party, a nation, a civilization and finally, the community of the inhabitants of the planet. all of this refers to our home, whether it be geographical, opinion, linguistic, ethnic or otherwise, we are the result of all of this. in addition to this there are the various aspects of our patriotism, our aims, our affinities, our inclinations, our pride, our symbols, our traditions, our habits, our customs and our peculiarities. in short, the world is full of diversity, and so are humanity and each of us. of course, from this shared ownership also comes a shared sovereignty. on all levels of our identity, we have a degree of sovereignty, but we never have and never can have complete sovereignty. it is only a question of these sovereignties complementing each other and, if possible, not opposing each other. you will no doubt guess why i am entering into such considerations at this particular moment: the debates on the european constitution and the treaty of lisbon are largely centred on the question of the reciprocal relations defining the sovereignty of states and that of europe. the answer is clear: they should complement each other. if i feel european, it does not mean that i cease to be czech. on the contrary, as a czech, i am also european. i am used to saying in a rather poetic way that europe is the homeland of our homelands. at the same time, i am convinced that european sovereignty will gradually be consolidated in the future. i do not know whether it will happen quickly or slowly, i do not know which winding roads and detours will lead us there, but i do know that the process of integration must continue. it is in the substantial, even existential, interest not only of europeans, but of all. the reasons are obvious: we live in a single, globalized civilization, where it does not matter whether the owner of a greenland fishing company lives in taiwan and owns shares in a brazilian bank or whether the owner of a czech mine manages his operation from iceland. in this environment, various supranational or continental societies play and will play an increasingly important role. this is not the end of the nation states, these countries are merely coming together, they will continue to associate and act together in many areas. the only thing that forces them to do this is technical and economic progress. on the other hand, in an age when the world is moving towards harmful standardization, the constitution of several small communities of states and nations, more or less close to each other, may be one of the ways of better defending national or regional identities. of course, the gradual and nonviolent association of states also strengthens peaceful coexistence. in recent centuries, have not most wars been between nations? what better way to control the various nationalist demons than by real cooperation between nations? of course, the principle of multi-layered sovereignty can only be accepted if it is backed up by a civil and political identification with this principle. i have noticed that in my country - and probably in many other countries - people often speak of "us" - in my case, the czechs - and "them", referring to some nasty foreigners in brussels. but are we not in brussels too? this distinction between "us" as a priori good people and some evil "them", presented as those who want to harm us at all costs, only indicates an almost total lack of understanding of the integration process itself. this too must be dealt with patiently. we're all in this together, and this ship has taken the right direction. it will continue along this course as long as all its passengers share responsibility and no one rides alone in his own interest. it is not by shouting in favour of vague national interests, by merely masking our lack of self-confidence, that we will gain prestige or a unique position in a constituted community, but by means which give meaning to our existence among others and by our participation in the common work. europe has been for many centuries the principal centre of civilization in the world, or so it thought when it was not. it felt it had the right to export its culture, religion and inventions to the world, without asking whether anyone wanted it or not. on the other hand, the export of these values has been accompanied by violence on more than one occasion. it can even be said that the whole of modern civilization - not only with all its great significance for the world but also, to an equal extent, with its present myopia - has its origins in europe. the continent should learn from all this and relate to this experience in a different way, no longer imposing anything on the world but striving only to be a source of inspiration, to offer an example to which others can refer or not without being obliged to. it is difficult to find on this earth a region where so many nations or ethnic groups, so many minorities and minorities within minorities, are concentrated in several states. yet europe has succeeded, in recent decades, in creating what is perhaps the strongest supranational alliance we can see in the world today. but - and this is the most important - this alliance was not born as it has always been in history, namely that it is not the result of the violent domination of the weak by the strong. it was, on the contrary, the result of a genuine concertation. so integration has moved from the battlefields to the conference rooms. this alone is a major challenge for the rest of the world. i mentioned the growing importance of supranational configurations in the world today. it seems to me that the optimal political order for the next few decades lies in a creative collaboration of partnerships between large supranational or continental entities, based on common minimal concepts, more moral than political. to be meaningful, these relations must of course be based on two basic principles: full equality for both parties and maximum openness. when for practical reasons - for example, the fear of interruption of oil or gas supplies - some close their eyes and forget all the journalists murdered for their freedom of thought or any other similar facts that they would have been happy to report under other circumstances, there is no partnership relationship, because this relationship is based on duplicity. real partners need to be able to tell each other everything they're thinking, which is the whole truth, which they also need to be able to hear. european integration, which has brought peace to most of our continent for so long, is a unique attempt at democratic union between states. it is not a true federation, not even a traditional confederation, we are still far from it. this is something new. if only this experience could serve as an example to others! but that's not the most important thing. i believe that the european union has the opportunity to inspire the rest of the world by something deeper than its single model of cooperation between nations, by systematically seeking to redress all the controversial acts by which europe has predetermined or influenced the whole character of contemporary civilization. that trend may be starting to emerge. what i am saying is that we must turn our backs on the cult of profit at any cost, with no regard for its irreversible and long-term consequences, the cult of quantitative growth and 'growth of growth', the primitive ideals of the united states, china and others to catch up and outpace, the dangerous and disorderly colonization of the earth and the senseless plundering of the planet with no regard for the environment or the interests of future generations. i am thinking of course of ingenious ways of saving energy, when the success of a country is not measured by growth but, on the contrary, by a decrease in its consumption. all this is of course only possible if changes begin to take place in the mind of the contemporary european. in the face of the latest discoveries in cosmology, he should still be a little more modest, he should reflect on what will happen after his death, bow down to the mystery of the universe and of being itself, in other words refer again, as was the case in the early stages of european construction, to eternity and infinity. we should seriously consider that nothing that has happened can be undone, that everything has a memory somewhere, if only in the form of a flying light, and that therefore nothing is forgiven forever. but back to europe as a partner: the vast majority of wars in the known history of the human species were a struggle for a border or territory. the lesson here is that not only nation states but also supranational communities should always know where their territory begins and ends. blurred or disputed borders often lead to disaster. even the european union should remember this. it should therefore also have a clear view of its external borders. if it wants to abolish borders, it must first know where they are. the concept of geographical self-identification should thus be promoted on a larger scale, at the global level. in this way the union would make a significant and very concrete contribution to building what we all aspire to: peace between men and nations on earth. the question of shared sovereignty is most often raised in european debates in connection with the institutional organization of the union, to which i pay tribute for the energy it has deployed in recent years on this subject and for the successes it has achieved. that is why i am risking looking further into the future. this parliament in which you sit is elected by direct suffrage and the number of seats allocated to each state is supposed to correspond to its size. i believe that the european parliament should have more powers than it does now, as the only body directly elected by all europeans. therefore, legislative work should be transferred more clearly from the executive to the legislative. no one has the right to regard the european parliament as a mere expensive ornament of the union. however, i believe that a smaller body could emerge in time, in which the national parliaments would elect representatives from among themselves, so that all the member states would be represented by the same number of members. in this way, or in a similar way, it would be possible to solve two problems at once: first, it would eliminate the feeling that is widespread in several national parliaments, according to which they are excluded from the european decision-making process. secondly, there would be a single body of the union which would guarantee complete equality between all the member states. such a structure would, of course, meet very rarely, only when a number of members request it and only on matters requiring consensus. this solution would also simplify the complicated composition of the commission, which is currently based on a national proportion, and would avoid the european council having to carry out such a complex calculation of its votes. i must say that it seems to me more important that the commissioners are really the best specialists in their field than that they are at all costs my compatriots or even members of my party. the european council is currently a strange amalgam of executive and representative authority. its status should also be clarified. it seems to me that we should approach the specific position of the head of state in parliamentary democracies. in other words, it would be a kind of collective leadership of a group of states, half hidden, half visible, whose visible and comprehensible representative would naturally be a person, namely the president, whose existence is already provided for by the lisbon treaty and whose role is very important. let us remember that when a state is headed by a collective leadership, there is usually a risk of disintegration. i do not say that this can also be the case in a supranational community, but i do feel that it would be better to have a human face representing the whole of this complex machinery and making everything more understandable. i have said on more than one occasion that i would be delighted if there were a european constitution in the future which was concise, understandable and readable, which even schoolchildren could understand, and that all the rest (which today amounts to thousands of pages) were just annexes. of course, this constitution should contain, perhaps even in its first part, a charter of fundamental rights in the form of a text setting out the values or ideals to which the union subscribes, which it strives to conform to and which it takes into account in its decision-making. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make one final remark, which brings me back to where i started. from a distance, the european union appears to be a highly technocratic body that is only concerned with economics and money. the endless debates on the budget, quotas, customs duties, taxes, trade rules and various regulations are probably necessary and i do not disdain them in the least. i even believe that the famous recommendations or standards for goulash cooking, which are usually the subject of sarcasm by eurosceptics, are supposed to protect a czech or hungarian peculiarity rather than harm a particular member state and its identity. i think, however, that the union should put more emphasis, more strongly and more visibly, on what is really important, namely its spiritual foundations and its values. after all, it is an unprecedented attempt to build a supranational community, large and original, based on respect for the freedom of individuals, human dignity, on the basis of a genuine democracy which is not only apparent and formal, and on faith in common sense, honesty, the capacity for fair dialogue within this community and with all third parties. it is also based on respect for individual nations, their traditions, their achievements, respect for the countries in which they live, their homes, and in particular the regions in which these homes are located. and of course also on respect for human rights and human solidarity. europe has a rich spiritual and cultural history, based on the combination of ancient, jewish, christian, islamic and renaissance and enlightenment elements, which have formed an undeniable set of values that europe claims verbally but often sees only as a beautiful packaging for what is really important. are these not the values that are the foundation? are these not the values that guide the direction we should take? i am not advocating a revolutionary, subversive or radical position here. i only encourage a deeper reflection on the very foundations of european unification, a deeper cultivation of our european character and a deeper articulation of the relationship with the moral order which transcends the world of our immediate profits or the world based on prosperity alone, which leads nowhere and is determined only by quantitative indicators. for 20 years, europe has not been divided in two. i firmly believe that it will never again allow itself to be divided and that it will, on the contrary, be the theatre and the initiator of ever greater solidarity and cooperation. let us hope that for us and our descendants schiller's ode to joy will no longer be a mere poem celebrating friendship between men but will become a evocative symbol of our common efforts for a more humane world. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
, former president of the czech republic. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the invitation and for the opportunity to address you on the 20th anniversary of the dramatic events which broke through the border barricades, cut through the barbed wire and demolished the walls between the peoples of europe, or in the case of germany, between two parts of the same people. this was the end of the bipolar division of europe and, to a large extent, of the world as a whole. this was such a momentous moment in history that some people felt that peace was now coming and that the world would simply flourish. this did not happen, and it certainly did not bring an end to the story. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and it is therefore important that the current anniversary should not only be a moment to reflect on the present but also and above all a call to think about the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the iron curtain was brought down so suddenly and unexpectedly, and no one could have been fully prepared. that would have been unnatural. and so, first, there was a phase of a certain disorientation, of the search for different alternatives and of uncertainty. then nato bravely opened up to new members, anchoring them in security policy and helping them to focus on preparing for membership of the european union. later, the eu began to open up to the new democracies of central and eastern europe. these countries have been a bit of a pain in the ass from time to time. but that's more than understandable. a democratic political culture cannot be created or renewed overnight. this takes time and involves overcoming unexpected difficulties. communism was in power for the first time, and hopefully for the last time in modern history, and that is why we also encountered the phenomenon of post-communism for the first time. we had to face the consequences of a long reign of fear and all the risks of a redistribution of property like never before in history. there were and are many obstacles, and the experience of dealing with them is only beginning to mature. i still believe that the west did the right thing. because any other alternative would have caused far more worry, not only to him, but actually to everyone, and would have been more expensive. not only could a new and dangerous struggle for spheres of influence or even for the dominance of some over others have been ignited, but the countries that would have remained at the gates of the west would have most likely become a playground for nationalists and populists of various colours and their armed militias, perhaps even the scene of dangerous local conflicts, all the more dangerous because, for well-known reasons, after the end of the second world war, there was never a real peace conference to settle the post-war order in europe in a binding, precise and lasting way. i think that many of those who were raising the flag with a hammer and sickle a short while ago could have quickly and easily taken up the national flag. and we have seen where this leads in the former yugoslavia. and a demon is known to awaken another demon. who knows if this infection might have spread to the western part of europe. we live in a time when any local conflict can easily escalate into a global conflict because of globalization. the approach chosen was therefore the most natural and the most practical in historical terms. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. i would like to conclude by saying that, although we are still very concerned about the european union today, it is worth accepting this, because any alternative to the present course of events would clearly have been considerably worse and more dangerous. in this situation, europe can only be asked to be understanding and patient. the question is, of course, what we have to offer europe. i have long held the view that, after what we have experienced in the era of totalitarianism, we should, indeed we have a duty, to pass on this experience to others in a convincing way and that we must transform the resulting experience into concrete initiatives. this is not an easy task, and i doubt whether we have succeeded so far. for totalitarian or authoritarian forms of government often start out very inconspicuously and have very sophisticated methods of keeping society in check. only now, with some time between us, are many of us realizing how cleverly we were then entangled in the totalitarian web. all this requires us to be particularly careful. this should be our contribution to ensuring that what we have experienced will never happen again. what is involved? above all, a clear and unequivocal solidarity with all those who today - wherever they may be in the world - are living under a totalitarian or authoritarian regime. we must not allow economic or other special interests to prevent us from this solidarity. even a small, unobtrusive and well-intentioned compromise can have fatal consequences, albeit after a certain time and indirectly. there is no compromise with evil, for it is the nature of evil to take advantage of every concession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the people who love freedom and who speak out against the conditions in north korea, burma, iran, tibet, belarus, cuba and elsewhere are being helped by our support far more than we think. but it also helps us. it helps us to create a better world and at the same time it helps us to be more true to ourselves, because it enables us to give concrete content to the values we profess in general. the european parliament recently awarded the sakharov prize to memorial, a russian association which monitors the human rights situation in russia. i think that was an important act. i can still remember the great significance it had in my country when the french president invited us - the opposition - to a working breakfast during his state visit, against the wishes of the government. these are only apparent appearances. because in totalitarian conditions, even a breakfast or a suppressed student demonstration can, under certain circumstances, set history in motion. our collective identity is made up of what makes us unique as individuals, as well as different layers of what we call our shared identity. to a greater or lesser extent, each of us is also shaped by our family, community, region, company, church, political party or association, our people, our cultural circle and, finally, the people of this planet. all of this shows wherever we see our home, whether it's geographically, ideologically, linguistically, ethnically or in any other way that we all share. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we want to see, a europe which is not only a europe of the people, but also a europe of the people. in short, the world is colorful, and so is humanity and each of us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. on all levels of our identity, we also have a certain degree of sovereignty, but on no level do we have complete sovereignty, nor can they. what is important is that these sovereignties complement each other and, if possible, do not contradict each other. you can probably guess why i am raising this point now: the debates on the european constitution or the treaty of lisbon are largely concerned with the question of the relationship between state sovereignty and european sovereignty. the answer is clear: they should complement each other. because if i feel european, it doesn't mean i stop being czech. on the contrary, as a czech i am also european. i often say, in a rather poetic way, that europe is the home of our countries. i am convinced that european sovereignty will gradually increase in the future. i do not know how fast or slow this will happen, or what twists and turns this path will bring, but i do know that the process of integration must continue. because in the end, this is in the existential interest not only of europeans, but of all of us. the reasons for this are obvious: we all live in the space of a single global civilization, where it really does not matter whether the owner of a greenlandic fishing company lives in taiwan and owns shares in a brazilian bank, or whether the owner of a czech mining company runs its operations from iceland via computer. in such a space, various transnational, supranational or continental communities play an increasingly important role now and in the future. this does not mean the end of nation states now or in the future, but only that these states are coming together and acting together in many things. the technical and economic development alone will make this necessary. on the other hand, at a time when the world is moving towards an unfortunate unification, the formation of several smaller communities of states or peoples, which are similar in some respects, can be one of the means of better defending their national or regional identity. the gradual and unforced integration of states naturally also promotes peaceful coexistence. or were not the wars of past centuries mostly wars of nation states? what better way to tame forms of national madness than by the objective cooperation of peoples? the principle of multi-layered sovereignty can only be accepted if there is a civil and political identification with it. i have noticed that in our country and certainly in many other countries, people often speak of 'us' - in my case, the czechs - and of 'them', meaning any evil foreigners in brussels, as if we were not in brussels ourselves. this contrast between 'us', who are a priori good, and the 'other', who are evil and who want to harm us at any cost, reveals above all one thing: an inadequate understanding of the integration process itself. again, you have to be patient. we are in the same boat, and that boat is on the right track; and it will remain on the right track if all its passengers share responsibility and do not just play their own game and pursue their own goal. we do not gain a prominent or distinguished position in an existing community by whining about unspecified national interests, which merely conceals a lack of inner self-confidence, but only by meaningful cooperation and participation in the common work. europe has been the main centre of civilization on this planet for centuries, or at least it believed it was. it therefore felt entitled to export its culture, religion and inventions to the whole world, regardless of whether anyone wanted them. moreover, these exports of value were often accompanied by violence. it can even be said that the whole of modern civilization has its origins in europe - not only the splendor but also, to an equal extent, the short-sightedness of today. europe should learn from all this and build on it in a new way. and it's done so that it no longer imposes on the world, but only seeks to inspire the world. by setting an example that others can follow but do not have to. it is difficult to find another region on earth where so many peoples or ethnic groups are concentrated in different states, so many minorities and minorities within minorities. but nevertheless, in recent decades europe has succeeded in creating what is probably the most stable supranational union in the world today. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. it was rather the result of objective agreements. so integration shifted from the battlefields to the conference rooms. this alone can serve as an inspiration to the rest of the world. i have already mentioned the growing importance of supranational organizations in today's world. the optimal political order for the years and decades to come is a creative, partnership-based cooperation between these larger supranational or continental organisations on the basis of a certain common moral rather than political minimum. but these relations are only meaningful if they are based on two principles: complete equality between the parties and maximum honesty. a relationship is not a partnership if you put up blinders for practical reasons, for example, because you're afraid that the oil or gas supply will be interrupted, and you close your eyes to the fact that many freedom-loving journalists are being killed, or to many other bad things that you would like to talk about under different circumstances. it is not a partnership, because it is based on falsehood. real partners need to be able to tell each other everything they're thinking, the whole truth, and they need to be able to hear the whole truth. the european integration which has brought peace to the greater part of our continent for so long is indeed a unique attempt to create a democratic union of states. this is not a pure federation, nor will it be anytime soon, nor is it a traditional confederation. it is simply something new. may this experience be instructive to others. but that's not the point. i believe that the european union has the chance to inspire the rest of the world with something much deeper than just its model of cooperation between peoples. i am referring to the consistent attempt to correct all the controversial things that have shaped or influenced the whole character of modern civilization. this is a process which may be slowly beginning now. i am referring to the abandonment of the cult of profit at any cost, without regard to the long-term and irreversible consequences, the abandonment of the cult of quantitative growth and ever-increasing growth, the abandonment of the primitive notion that america or china or anyone else must necessarily catch up and overtake, and also the abandonment of the dangerously ill-conceived colonization of the earth and the mindless plundering of the planet without regard to the environment and the interests of future generations. i am referring, of course, to sophisticated energy-saving concepts in which the success of a state is measured not by increasing but by decreasing its consumption. but all this is only possible if there is a change in the very soul of the european of today. he should be a little more humble in the face of the latest findings in cosmology, and he should also think about what will be after his death. it should bow before the mystery of the universe and of existence itself, in short, it should see itself more strongly in the context of eternity and infinity, as it already did in the first stages of european development. we should seriously consider that nothing that has happened can ever be undone, that everything is remembered somewhere - if only in the form of a flying light - and that therefore nothing is forgiven forever. but back to europe as a partner of others: the vast majority of wars in recorded human history have been about borders or about territory. the important lesson to be drawn from this is that not only nation states but also supranational communities should always be clear about where they start and where they end. because unclear or disputed borders are often the cause of misery. the european union should never forget this either. it should therefore be clear about its external borders. if she wants to break down boundaries, she's got to know where she stands first. it would therefore have to promote the idea of geographical self-location on a larger scale, that is, on a planetary scale. it would thus have to make a decisive and concrete contribution to the realization of what we all long for: peace between the peoples of this planet. the issue of shared sovereignty is most often raised in european debates as an aspect of the institutional structure of the union. i have respect for the energy that the union has devoted to this issue in recent years and for the successes it has achieved. that is why i dare to look into the far future in this matter. this parliament, in which they sit, is directly elected and the number of seats per member state seeks to reflect their respective size. i think that the european parliament, as the only body directly elected by all europeans, should have a little more power than it does today. the legislative work should therefore be transferred more clearly from the executive to the legislative. the european parliament must not be seen as a luxury piece of the union. i think that in the course of time, however, there could be another smaller body alongside it, in which the national parliaments could elect representatives from among themselves, with all the member states represented by the same number of members. in this or similar way two things could be solved at once: firstly, it could dispel the impression expressed in many national parliaments that they are excluded from european decisions. secondly, it would ensure that there is a union body which guarantees the absolute equality of all member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such a solution would also make unnecessary the cumbersome composition of the commission by nationality and the complicated counting of votes in the council. i admit that it would be more important for me personally that the commissioners were indeed the best experts in their field than that they were at all costs my countrymen or even party friends. the european council today is a strange combination of executive and representative powers. his role should also be clarified. i believe that his role should be closer to that of the specific position of heads of state in parliamentary democracies, in other words, he would be a kind of semi-concealed and semi-open collective head of the association of states, whose visible and understandable representative would be an individual; the president, then, who is already provided for by the treaty of lisbon, which is of great importance; we must remember that where there is a collective government, there is usually a risk of disintegration. i'm not saying that this is the case in a transnational community, but i do believe that there should be a single human face somewhere that represents and makes this whole complex system more understandable. i have already made it clear on several occasions that i would be delighted if, at some future date, there were a concise, comprehensible and readable european constitution that even schoolchildren could understand, and everything else that today already totals thousands of pages would then be its annex. the charter of fundamental rights would of course have to be an integral part, or even the first part of such a constitution, as a text which articulates the values or ideals on which the union is based and which it seeks to fulfil, and which it has in mind in its decision-making processes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from a distance, the european union looks like a very technocratic institution, concerned only with economics and money. the endless negotiations on the budget, quotas, customs duties, taxes, trade rules and all kinds of regulations are certainly necessary and i do not in any way despise them. i even think that those notorious recommendations or standards on how to cook goulash - the usual target of eurosceptic mockery - are meant more as a protection of something typically czech or hungarian, rather than an attack on the member state or its identity. however, i believe that the union should put even more emphasis and visibility on what is really important. i mean, his spiritual foundation and his values. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. and of course, respect for the individual nations, for their traditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the member states. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. europe's rich intellectual and cultural history - based on a combination of ancient, jewish, christian and islamic elements, as well as renaissance and enlightenment elements - has created a set of unquestionable values to which the european union, while verbally committed, often only looks upon as a beautiful packaging of what it is in reality. but are not these values the first and foremost, are they not the guiding principles for everything else? i am not advocating anything revolutionary, anything subversive, anything radical. i am simply advocating a deeper reflection on the starting points of the european project itself, a stronger cultivation of our european identity, an articulated relationship with the moral order that goes beyond the world of our immediate profit and the world of pure prosperity, which has no direction, and prosperity measured by purely quantitative parameters. for 20 years europe has not been cut in the middle. i firmly believe that europe will never again be divided, but will instead be the place and the initiator of ever greater solidarity and cooperation. may schiller's 'ode to joy' be for us and our descendants not just a poem celebrating friendship between people, but a powerful symbol of our quest for a more humane world. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, if the sakharov prize had existed 30 years ago, you would have been the best candidate for us, václav. fortunately, you don't need that prize anymore, because there is no longer an old and a new europe. there is only one europe. today, it is our duty as politicians to honour the values on which the union was founded, namely reconciliation and solidarity. let us do all we can to remember them.
the next item on the agenda is the report of the european council and the commission statement on the conclusions of the european council of 29 and 30 october 2009, including the mandate and powers of the president of the council of the european union, the high representative for the common foreign and security policy/vice-president of the commission, as well as the composition of the new commission.
mr. chairman, please! the october council conclusions provide a good basis for reducing completely unrealistic expectations of europe on climate change. our climate change action should be fully conditional on the efforts of china, america, india, brazil. our contribution to clean technologies in developing countries cannot be allowed to ruin our own economy. let us remember that it is economic growth that gives us the opportunity to finance technological change that is crucial to environmental protection. the eu's own contribution must not lead to a situation where countries with high energy consumption of coal pay twice for the same emissions: once for the operation of the emissions trading system and the second time as part of the promotion of clean technologies in the world. if we do not take this position into account, we will weaken europe's position in this debate.
mr. chairman, please! despite the loud declarations that the lisbon treaty will improve the functioning of the european union, it is turning out to be a pandora's box. his records are not accurate and are not only controversial, but are already dividing the union's leaders. the treaty does not specify the prerogatives of the future president of the european council, who is called the president, or the democratic method of election, but his actual position is to depend on the strength of his personality and his previous function. it is also difficult to predict whether the classic model of national presidencies setting the tone for union policy will be maintained. the same is true of the eu foreign minister. most european citizens want an answer to the question whether we are moving towards a strong european federal state at the expense of national sovereignty and whether in the future a strong president of the council will not want to refer to the anti-democratic traditions of 20th century europe.
madam president! the adoption of the long-awaited treaty of lisbon is now behind us. the european union will certainly be strengthened and improved in the future. today, its implementation requires a series of decisions on competences, personnel and, above all, the establishment of a formula for cooperation between the new leaders who should implement the new vision of europe. the treaty matters cannot be allowed to obscure the problems we are facing today, such as the active fight against the economic crisis, the fight against rising unemployment or the consolidation of supervision of financial institutions. the copenhagen accord is important and necessary, but the time of crisis is not a good time to decide which countries and international organisations will allocate funds to this end, or what commitments they will make. solving economic and social problems is now the number one priority for the union and its member states.
in writing. president barroso will shortly allocate the new commissioners. i hope he doesn't make the same blunder as he did in the last term when he proposed a 19th century mentality, a catholic fundamentalist, a male chauvinist and a homophobe as his candidate for the post of commissioner of justice. the european parliament did not allow the commission to be compromised. i hope he doesn't have to intervene again. in line with the intentions stated by president barroso, the tickets should be allocated in accordance with the golden rule of balance. the commission should be much more social and its commissioners competent. president barroso no longer has to worry about being re-elected, so he can focus on the crisis and the social aspects of his agenda. to this end, it is necessary to entrust the economic and social affairs to commissioners from our socialist political family. if the commission is not gender balanced, it is a sign that there is no real equality. it is high time to put into practice the still unfulfilled idea of equality between women and men. in the european union, men have been elected to the highest offices (president of the ep and president of the ec). it's an open promotion of discrimination against women. it is time to change this and finally implement eu law banning all discrimination. it's time for the ladies! the 250 million dynamic, courageous, strong women citizens of the european union are easy to find. also president of the council of the european union and high representative for the common foreign policy.
madam president! the next eu-russia summit will be a confirmation of the importance the european union attaches to its relationship with russia. in this context, i would like to draw attention to two issues which are fundamental to the interests of russia and the european union and which are reflected in and actually define these relations. these are the problems of energy cooperation and security cooperation. if the european union and russia are to succeed together, and that is our aim, we must be clear about our position. our russian partners do it perfectly, without any ambiguity, because they cause misunderstandings. it is important that the european union constructs its position in this way. i therefore welcome this important step, which is the establishment by the largest groups in the european parliament of a joint, and very good, draft resolution, but i believe that it can be even better if we include in it a third amendment which underlines the importance of eu-russian energy cooperation but also shows on what basis this cooperation should be implemented. the aim is to minimise financial costs, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, but also to take account of any energy concerns. the last point concerns safety. i wish to say that i was very sorry to hear that the request from my group for a debate on the russian-belarusian manoeuvres, which were intended to defend against a possible attack from western europe, from the countries of the european union and from nato, was not on the agenda and was not discussed.
madam president! the russian-union summit is in a week. i want to talk about it on a special day for my country, the day poland regained its independence. the independence of not only poland, but also other countries in the region, has always been threatened by imperialism, first russian, then soviet. today we want to feel safe in the structures of a europe of free nations, but we must not ignore the fact that russia is trying to rebuild its empire and has never come to terms with its loss. that is why it has attacked georgia, is making a de facto anschluss of south ossetia and abkhazia, is threatening ukraine, is interfering with the missile shield in poland or the czech republic, uses energy blackmail. it is therefore both symbolic and sinister that just before the eu-russia summit, the country holding the eu presidency and the host of the summit, sweden, is withdrawing its ecological veto against the nord stream project, which makes no economic sense and whose only purpose is to overturn in practice the principle of energy solidarity, which was supposed to be one of the main principles and ideas of the lisbon treaty. in the words of a popular saying in my country, i call on the countries of the old union: do not go down this road! do not make deals with russia that are politically aimed at the new member states, because it threatens to undermine the idea of a common europe.
madam president! russia deserves to be treated seriously. i think that if our partners in the kremlin listened to the commissioner's speeches, they were very surprised by this assessment of eu-russian relations. we are approaching the next eu-russia summit in a way that lacks the courage and sincerity to take seriously the fundamental issues that are being discussed between the eu and russia today. if there is no sincerity within the union, if, just a few days after the final ratification of the lisbon treaty in the czech republic, the words of energy solidarity mean nothing and the next steps towards the construction of the northern gas pipeline follow; if there is no serious reference in our relations to the energy charter, the sarkozy plan or the recent russian manoeuvres on poland's eastern border, then we will not tolerate anything. i would like to hear from the commissioner, and i ask her to be frank, what elements of the union-russia relationship do you also consider to be your personal success? where's the chance of that happening? without honesty, we can't build anything.
madam president! i would like to turn first of all to commissioner ferrero-waldner. i don't think you were here this afternoon when president havel spoke. like mrs ojuland and mr schulz, i would like to refer to his statement on the european union's duty to promote democracy and human rights. that is what mrs malmström said, and i thank her very much for that. you made it sound as if we were preparing as the european union for a summit with switzerland. you have talked about trade, business, the climate package, completely forgetting what is important, perhaps most important for the european union. i hope that the union will take the position that mrs malmström has taken today more often than you.
in writing. – mr president, in russia today, we are seeing the harassment of civil society by the authorities. organisations whose sole role is to help protect basic civic freedoms and human rights are being driven out by eviction notices, refusal of administrative permits and, in some places in russia, the murder of their members. we have just this week read reports that the for human rights centre, and the moscow helsinki group, the oldest human rights organisation in russia, are to be expelled from their premises. as we, the european parliament, are about to present this year’s sakharov prize to the ‘memorial’ foundation, including to one of the founders of the moscow helsinki group, mrs. lyudmila mikhailovna alexeyeva, we must underline that this parliament, this union, is more than just about business and making sure that gas arrives as cheaply as possible. we are a union of values, including those of civil liberties, democracy, human rights and human dignity. next week, our european leaders during the summit need to speak about more than pipelines and free trade. it is not yet time to let the candle of russian civil society burn out. thank you
in writing. we are committed to good relations and partnership with russia. at the same time, efforts are being made to develop the eastern partnership, which aims to boost eu relations with belarus, ukraine, moldova, georgia, azerbaijan and armenia. despite many declarations of cooperation with the russian federation by the european union and poland, i am concerned that in september thousands of russian soldiers took part in the military exercise "zapad 2009" in belarus, which was aimed at suppressing the fictitious uprising of the polish minority. the holding of joint russian-belarusian military exercises with the assumption that the aggressor is one of the european union member states is highly worrying. i am also surprised at the lack of reaction from the european commission and the eu high representative for the common foreign and security policy. i hope that this issue will be raised at the forthcoming eu-russia summit in stockholm on 18 november.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the discussion we are having, i want to ask about the impact of the crisis on the implementation of the directive in the eu countries. in my country, poland, despite the crisis and the difficulties of the transition, it was possible to prepare a law on service activities, which provides for a great deal of liberalization in the registration and conduct of activities. in industries such as crafts, trade, tourism, hospitality, the restrictions are only exceptional. we do this in the name of equal opportunity and to protect the principle of healthy competition. the 2006 compromise provided for the exclusion of certain areas from the directive. i want to ask you what the evaluation of these decisions looks like today. it was then assumed that further legislative work on the issue of public utilities would be carried out in the future. to use the metaphor, commissioner, after you've filled this glass half full, will there be another one, and what will happen next?
mr. chairman, please! the proper implementation of the services directive in the internal market is important not only for european businesses operating in this market, but also for consumers. the example of the services directive, which took three years to implement. it is a long time, and yet not all countries will be able to transpose the directive within three years. this example illustrates very clearly that excellent cooperation between member states and the european institutions is needed to achieve timely transposition in all member states. this is the direction taken by the commission's recommendations of june this year on measures to improve the functioning of the internal market. i think we need to go a little bit further in the implementation process. therefore, in the report on the internal market scoreboard, i propose an initiative to organise an internal market forum that would bring together representatives of the european institutions, member states and other stakeholders to make a clearer commitment to transpose, apply and enforce the legislation on the internal market and this very important directive. i want the internal market forum to become a forum for the exchange of experience between member states and the eu institutions in the field of transposition. i want this forum to draw the public's attention to the issues of the internal market. we need to make our citizens more interested in the functioning and responsibility of the market. then it will be a complete success. in view of the problems we have just heard about with the transposition of the services directive, i would like to ask whether the member states have sought to cooperate with the commission and whether it can be said that they have succeeded in applying some of the commission's recommendations in the implementation process? is the commission constantly looking for new solutions, or is it using all the possibilities and means to mobilise and support, in particular, those countries which are having problems with transposition? any new ideas on that?
mr. chairman, please! in a recession, we should generally aim to create new jobs, increase competitiveness, lower prices, in short, more benefits for citizens. we do this by subsidizing the auto industry, for example. we're talking about jobs like hairdressers, plumbers, bricklayers, all of which don't require funding. instead, they need freedom to act. records and practice. i hope everything is in order here. i know an example of a bakery built in a neighboring country. as far as the investment was concerned, it was fine. production started, government, local government pulled out. why would you do that? the local bakers' association has protested. i hope this kind of thing doesn't happen. commissioner, let us agree to name also the half of the member states that are implementing the rules. what are they? i would also like to ask that we receive a detailed monitoring plan for the implementation of this directive in the individual member states in january this year.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i agree with you that the services directive is one of the most important pieces of legislation in recent years and its proper implementation is of the utmost importance. in the previous term, i had the opportunity to work on the transcripts of the service directive. i remember the enormous effort that all of us here in the european parliament put into the preparation of its minutes. i am an enthusiast of the services directive and i strongly believe, as i often stress in my meetings with businesses, that this is a huge opportunity for them and for the european economy as a whole. but the opportunities will only be translated into concrete results if the relevant rules are properly and timely implemented by the member states. i therefore join the call for the national authorities to speed up the implementation process, as they have not yet completed the necessary work, in particular on the correct implementation of the principle of freedom to provide services and single points of contact. i am following closely the implementation of the services directive in the individual countries, as well as in my own country, poland, where work is still ongoing to ensure that the provisions are properly implemented. i hope they'll be satisfactory in the end.
on the tape. the services directive (2006/123/ec) is characterised by the partial liberalisation of the flow of services within the european union. the aim of the directive was to unlock economic potential. this has opened up many opportunities for both consumers and businesses. the single market has become more fully exploitable. the main beneficiaries of the liberalisation of the services market are small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the previously existing barriers were the most burdensome. according to the european commission, in the eu member states, about 70% of gdp is generated in services. the number of employees in the service sector is also similar. the benefits of the services directive include: increased competitiveness in the internal market. the implementation of this directive has been an opportunity for the european economy to grow and has created jobs. it should be added that this is one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and is aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the european economy. in addition, this has the effect of increasing the range of services offered. the results achieved should provide an incentive to continue work on further liberalising this directive.
madam president! the fight against this disease was raised - and the credit for it - during the french presidency. it was then that it was said that the union should take action on this matter. it would be good if successive presidencies would raise this issue and treat it with the same importance. as mentioned here, this is a problem affecting many millions of individuals and their families who suffer. when we meet our constituents, we often hear the question: what does the union bring for the citizens of europe? why are you in there? what are you responsible for? what do you do? it is these kinds of issues that should be the subject of the european union's image-building of seriousness and importance. this is what citizens need, and working together to combat these diseases must be a priority for the eu institutions.
madam president! the scandalous ruling by the european court of human rights ordering the removal of a cross in an italian school and the payment of 5,000 euros in compensation for the alleged moral damage of one of the pupils is causing concern not only in italy but also in other countries of the european union. the cross is a symbol of the christian religion as well as of european history and tradition. the administrative removal of the cross is the first step towards a cultural harakiri of europe. unfortunately, this kind of pragmatism is part of a consistent plan to fight european values. i would just like to remind you that the most important documents of the european union have removed all reference to christianity. we must return to the original ideas and concepts of the founding fathers of the european union, who were christian democrats. i therefore call on the president of the european parliament to organise a proper debate and a resolution on freedom of religious belief in europe and the fundamental values on which the european union is founded.
madam president! i wish to speak on the proposal for the reform of the budget of the european union after 2013. is it true that this proposal means a serious reduction in regional funds? did the european commission foresee that this would weaken the european union's regional and agricultural policy in general? the proposal to weaken the poor regions of the european union at the expense of fighting climate change is not rational and does not make sense. it would affect most of the 271 regions of the european union. it is possible to help the poor regions of the union and at the same time, with good projects, to mitigate climate change, reduce gas emissions, introduce renewable energy and modern technological solutions. does the commission intend to omit regional and local authorities in the distribution of funds when introducing the budget reform proposal? this is a way of taking away the autonomy of the local authorities in matters of importance to them.
i would like to point out that last week we were alarmed by the situation or information that prime minister vladimir putin has asked the european commission to settle the debt that ukraine has to gazprom. i would like to ask you if that request has been made. is the european commission going to make the european union actually pay off this debt? and if the answers to both of the first two questions are in the affirmative, on what basis would she do this? i would also like you to note that i am the only member who has not used up all his time.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the health situation in ukraine. according to available data, more than one million cases of influenza have been reported there, including dozens of cases of a/h1n1. ukraine has requested international assistance, in particular for the supply of vaccines, medicines, disinfectants, masks, gloves and laboratory equipment. we know that the commission has set up a special civil assistance mechanism, a monitoring and information centre, to coordinate the assistance given to ukraine by the european union countries. what's the coordination like? what is the help given? what's the status of the ongoing monitoring? i think the public would like to know the answers to these questions.
madam president! today we celebrated 20 years of democratic change in central and eastern europe. it was a very dignified, honourable ceremony attended by president havel and president buzek and accompanied by an exhibition in the european parliament. this should be the case, but the european institutions should not be limited to such events once every few years. the historical presence, the truth of these changes should be present in educational activities, should be inspired by the european institutions. we need a common history book of this time, showing how europe came together, so that our children in schools can have access to this truth and this knowledge. yet, there are many examples of money being wasted. the british organisation open europe says that 7 million euros were spent on funding a blog by a donkey travelling in the netherlands. it's time to spend money more efficiently for europe.
madam president! i am glad that the citizens of the western balkan countries will be able to move freely within the european union. this will facilitate people-to-people contacts, expand business opportunities and create conditions for people in the region to get to know the european union better. but we cannot allow our eastern neighbours to be isolated, we cannot deprive them of the opportunity that we are giving to other european countries. we also need to set clear criteria and an action plan for greater visa liberalisation for them. we must bear in mind that the cost of visas is a major expense for the inhabitants of these countries, and that the procedures are lengthy, which limits the possibilities for developing various forms of cooperation. we should also remember that the 2012 european football championship will be hosted by poland and ukraine, so freedom of movement will be particularly important.
in the midst of the economic crisis, the effects of which are still being felt so painfully by all of us, many countries have decided to turn to various financial institutions for financial support. however, it is worth asking how much of this immense sum has gone to those most affected by the crisis or to those most in need in this difficult situation. thousands of people in europe are losing their livelihoods and the livelihoods of their families every day. do national governments take any social consideration into account when applying for financial aid? one might wonder, however, as living conditions deteriorate and unemployment rises in many european countries. i would therefore like to appeal to all of us not to be indifferent to the needs of ordinary people, who are usually the ones who suffer the most from the negative consequences of the wrong decisions of those in power.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. elections can be a way out of a political crisis or political impasse. we've had examples of this in the past in europe. an example is the 1989 elections in poland. it wasn't a democratic election. it was a political compromise election, but it wasn't democratic. they were groundbreaking, specific and very important. for elections to play such a specific, positive role, certain conditions must be met. the basic condition is that the political agreements under which such elections can take place are consistently respected. the most common obstacle to compliance with agreements is the interpretation of the agreements or the provisions. to avoid conflict between different interpretations, something special is needed, something elusive and imprecise. what is needed is the good will of both sides of the dispute, which in this case involves honduras. without the goodwill of both parties, the elections will not take place at all or will not fulfill the hopes that are placed in them. i therefore call for goodwill, for thinking ahead, for a minimum of responsibility. especially since in the past both mr. zelaya and mr. micheletti have made political and legal mistakes. the election is a chance and a hope to right these wrongs. i think that's what we want to happen. the elections could be a turning point and a positive for democratic honduras. the union supports this process and welcomes it. we all support this process because we believe that democracy and democratization are values worth pursuing. václav havel said in this room today that you cannot give in to evil, because evil by its nature will take advantage of every opportunity, every concession. the current situation in honduras is temporary and cannot last. the opportunity for change is an election.
mr. chairman, please! i think the elections on november 29 are an opportunity for honduras and it is the duty of the european parliament to send observers to those elections, not to legitimize - as the left says - something illegal, but to see how those elections are going. i also wanted to say that cuba is an hour's flight from honduras to havana. there hasn't been an election there in 50 years. it's ruled by a communist satrap who throws all his opponents in jail. the european parliament repeatedly called for their release, even awarding the sakharov prize to the "ladies in white" who were not allowed by fidel castro to go to the european parliament to collect the prize. i would like the commission, the council and the left in this chamber to be equally as firm in their concern for the rights and civil liberties of the cuban people.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. speaker, i'm not going to tell you. you are a very skilled politician who has the support of many political circles in our parliament. it could be said that a number of politicians in our parliament could learn from you. i hope your main success isn't creating a new website that's easy to access. i think you should pay attention to the cooperation with the ombudsmen in different countries, not only in the member states of the european union, but also in the council of europe, who sometimes are more the ombudsmen of the state towards the citizens than the citizens towards the state. finally, i think that creating a complaint writing manual is actually encouraging citizens to write complaints. i think our institutions need some control. i think this idea, although perverse, is successful in this respect. i would like to emphasise that the transparency we are talking about here is the absolute basis for a certain trust in the european union and its institutions. the commission's president can confirm that our citizens have not had much confidence in the union recently. it is in the context of plan d (democracy, dialogue, debate) that citizens should be shown that the european union and its institutions are transparent and at the service of the citizen. otherwise, the democratic deficit will unfortunately continue to grow.
mr. president, mr. diamandouros, i have to tell you that i have not heard from you. as every year, the ombudsman presented a very substantive report on his activities, which shows how important his mission is to the citizens of the european union. the new element in the 2008 report is the ombudsman's work on the european investment bank. the eib is the main lender for investment in the union as well as in the candidate countries. despite the considerable autonomy enjoyed by the eib within the institutional framework of the union, it must respect standards of good administration. i therefore welcomed the news of the dialogue that took place between the ombudsman and the european investment bank in 2008 and the outline of the agreement on compliance with the principles of good administration. the eib committed itself to establishing an internal complaints procedure, which had been lacking until now. i am also pleased that the bank has committed itself to applying the same standards of good administration to union citizens and non-union citizens applying for loans. i hope that the european parliament will be kept informed of developments in the cooperation between the ombudsman and the eib. once again, congratulations on your report.
in writing. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs chrysouli paliadeli, for her very comprehensive and transparent report, and the ombudsman and his team for their continuous work to combat maladministration and raise the standards of administration in the european union. the european ombudsman plays a vital role in intervening in accordance with the principle of 'deciding as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen'. i welcome the report which shows that the ombudsman continues to fulfil his mandate in an active and balanced way by handling complaints and maintaining constructive relations with the european institutions. i am concerned, however, that the number of complaints has increased compared to 2007, fortunately by only 6%, but this should be a warning to our institutions. the administration should learn from this fact and avoid future mistakes and wrongdoing by applying the recommendations presented in the report! i support the rapporteur in her call for the institutions and bodies of the european union to bring their practices into line with the provisions of the code of good administrative behaviour. it is now eight years since the european parliament adopted a resolution approving the code. that's a long time! adapting the provisions of the code will help us to work together more closely and synergistically to respond more effectively to the needs of our citizens.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the lisbon treaty introduces far-reaching changes to the budget and the procedure for adopting it. i shall only mention the removal of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, which should strengthen parliament's position, or the recognition of the multiannual financial framework as a legally binding act. it is equally important to simplify the budgetary procedure. however, in view of these changes, we cannot forget about their effective implementation in order to ensure the smoothest possible transition to the new rules. this is particularly important from the point of view of the beneficiaries of the union budget. we have a task to identify the areas where interim guidance is most needed. i would therefore like to express my support for this report and for all efforts to bring about the adoption of budgetary measures in accordance with the new treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-russia summit because the forthcoming eu-russia summit in stockholm is an opportunity to reflect on the key issues of this strategic cooperation. the development of an effective formula for dialogue with the russian federation requires a unified and solidary policy of the european union countries. we must remember that the realisation of this concept requires that the particular interests of the member states be overcome. the concept of a single and solidarity-based policy is becoming particularly important in the context of european energy security. the common interest of the european union must prevail over the pursuit of its own interests in relations with russia. another important issue for relations between the european union and russia is the question of the so-called eastern partnership. russia should understand that this project is not directed against them. the development of a strategy to ensure stability and development in the region is beneficial for both the union and russia. criteria for assessing the issue of respect for human rights and the rule of law in russia are also a major challenge for bilateral relations. the union countries should ask themselves whether, in the strict european sense, some of russia's actions can be considered fully democratic.
in writing. − negotiations with russia, launched last year, are currently under way: negotiations on a new eu-russia treaty, taking into account the current partnership and cooperation agreement between the community and its member states and the russian federation. the ep has always stressed the importance of issues such as human rights, energy security and minority rights, so these issues could not be left out of the summit. the eu is committed to good relations with russia, as it is an important and valuable partner in european relations, but it cannot afford to leave untouched by the european union issues that are inconvenient for the russian federation. in particular, the amendment adopted by the ep to amendment no 3 to the resolution 'eu-russia in stockholm' adding a new article 9a to the resolution: 'stresses that the creation of infrastructure links between the eu and the russian federation is mutually beneficial and should therefore be encouraged and based on minimising economic and environmental costs; strongly encourages russia to respect the basic principles of the energy charter in its energy cooperation projects with the eu'. only a solidary stance of all member states, which takes account of the solidary position of the council, the ep and the ec, can give the final shape to the new framework cooperation agreement between the eu and russia.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2008 which stresses the increasing number of complaints about the lack of transparency in the eu; i'm concerned about this data. i therefore support this resolution which calls for the ombudsman's activities to be given greater visibility. indeed, it is regrettable that only 36% of the 355 inquiries completed by the ombudsman in 2008 concerned the lack of transparency of the european institutions, including cases of refusal of information. it seems important to recall that a responsible and transparent administration of the european union is a guarantee of the trust which citizens place in the european union.
in writing. − i fully support the european parliament resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2008 and voted in favour of its adoption. the proposal to create a common website for the european institutions is particularly valuable. this would allow the appropriate institution to be found for each case and letters, questions or complaints to be addressed properly. this would be invaluable assistance for citizens of eu member states. most people have trouble with that these days. and they come to me repeatedly asking for information on where to access documents or how to file a complaint, because they don't know where to turn. they send letters everywhere, and then they are frustrated by the lack of response and disappointed with the functioning of the eu institutions, including the lengthy administrative procedures. on the other hand, the ombudsman, instead of responding to the right complaints, has to deal with more than 75% of the complaints that are not within his remit. the new website would be an excellent guide to the competences of the eu institutions. until such time as it is established, i ask the european ombudsman to refer each complaint directly, according to his competence, to the competent national or regional ombudsman. i also support the idea of a wider information campaign to raise citizens' awareness of the functions and competences of the members of the european network of ombudsmen.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the report by my colleague, chairman of the parliamentary committee on budgets, alain lamassoure. the report calls for the new powers of the european parliament to be respected as soon as the treaty of lisbon enters into force and for transitional rules to be introduced for the transitional period pending the implementation of the new budgetary rules provided for in the treaty. the new treaty gives parliament full equality of competence with the council for the adoption of the budget, even for so-called 'compulsory' expenditure (agriculture and international agreements), which was hitherto decided solely by the member states. the implementation of the new powers of parliament must await the adoption of new procedural regulations, which are necessary to translate into practice the general provisions of the new treaty: this report insists that this situation is worrying because i do not want the council and the commission to continue in the meantime with 'business as usual'. i therefore call for the rapid adoption of transitional rules; and the next meeting between the council and parliament to negotiate the 2010 budget could be the occasion...
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 12 november 2009.
first of all, i hope that cooperation with the other european institutions in implementing the treaty of lisbon, which will enter into force in one week's time, will proceed smoothly. i am in constant contact with the president of the european commission and the prime minister, who is representing the swedish presidency. i would also like to reiterate that the european parliament is ready to start the procedure for the interviews of the candidates for the new commissioners. we are prepared for this and i have also informed both institutions the council and the european commission (i.e. the president of the commission) of this preparation. next week is world aids day, which is december 1st. it's important that we always, not just on this day, remember the victims of this terrible disease. memory and knowledge can help to reduce future cases of disease. ***in two weeks, 10 december, will mark the 61st anniversary of the adoption and proclamation by the united nations general assembly of the universal declaration of human rights. the events of world war ii influenced its adoption. the declaration was adopted without a vote of opposition, which is worth noting. the universal declaration of human rights may be considered the first major achievement of the united nations in the field of human rights. i draw your attention to this important date because it is one of the european parliament's main concerns and rightly so. we should always remember this.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr. chairman, please! the european union, where one in seven citizens belongs to a national minority, can boast a far-reaching guarantee of respect for their rights. the importance of the motto of the european union united in diversity is worth highlighting here. every single one of us in this room knows that the true measure of a democracy is how it treats its minorities. the lisbon treaty clearly imposes the obligation to respect the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and the charter of fundamental rights prohibits any discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin or membership of a national minority. unfortunately, there are still countries in the union which, despite their international legal obligations, are pursuing a policy of assimilation and even of the impoverishment of their minorities. lithuania, for that matter, has not only been systematically discriminating against its citizens in various areas of life for more than 20 years, but has even increased such practices since joining the union. an example is the court's judgment on the spelling of polish names in lithuanian transcription only.
mr. chairman, please! on 14 october, the european commission published its annual enlargement strategy. it presents an assessment of the progress made by the western balkans and turkey in the global economic crisis and the main challenges that these countries will face in the near future. in my brief speech as a member of the delegation to the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee, i would like to encourage turkey to continue its efforts to pursue reforms aimed at the full democratisation of the country and a rapid resolution of neighbourhood conflicts. accession negotiations are at an advanced stage which requires turkey to make even greater efforts to meet the membership criteria. the prospect of joining the union should provide an incentive to strengthen democracy and respect for human rights, as well as to further modernise the country and achieve european union standards.
mr. chairman, please! the celebrations that took place on november 9 this year in berlin on the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, celebrated the reunification of germany, but also showed the way of central and eastern europe to freedom, democracy and the elimination of the division not only of the german state, but of all europe. the fall of the berlin wall was the end of this road, but the process of change in central and eastern europe began with the events on the polish coast and the creation of solidarity under the leadership of lech wałęsa in august 1980. we also remember the 1956 hungarian freedom movement, the june protests in poznań, the events in czechoslovakia in 1968 and the shipbuilders who died in gdańsk in 1980. many committed people of the opposition in different countries fought for freedom and democracy. some of them gave their lives. we honor and honor them. let us also remember those politicians who have shown great imagination and determination in building freedom, democracy and a market economy.
colleagues, i interrupt the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance in order to make an announcement.
mr david martin’s flight has been delayed. i would therefore ask the house to agree that his report on changes to the rules of procedure, which is very important for us, should be taken as the last item this evening; this is a change to the order of business rather than to the content of our session. it would be great if we could agree to this change because the rapporteur should be present during the debate. as this is formally a change to the agenda, i am obliged to request the agreement of the house, and i hope that this agreement will be forthcoming. (parliament accepted the proposal)
we now continue with the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. because of the time we had, there were many more than usual - over forty. as soon as possible, we will give you more opportunities to speak than the rules of procedure, which provide for a maximum of 30 such speeches.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs catherine trautmann on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2002/21/ec on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, directive 2002/19/ec on access to electronic communications networks and services and on interconnection and directive 2002/20/ec on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (03677/2009 - c7-027/20093 - 2007/0247 ((cod)) (a7-0070/2009).
mr president, the discussion on article 138 and the compromise we reached shows that members of the european parliament are reacting to public opinion and people’s interests, and that this parliament is defending freedom, in connection with people’s reactions. this is a wonderful example, with internauts having performed monitoring, written to meps and adopted a position in defence of their rights and wishes. it should be taken as an important case study in parliament’s work.
mr. chairman, please! as a lawyer and former police officer, i would like to stress the importance of the council framework decision, which aims to oblige all forensic laboratories providing genetic and fingerprint testing results to comply with the international standard iso 17025. this highly relevant provision aims to enhance the credibility and integrity of the evidence process and thereby increase public confidence in law enforcement and the judiciary.
mr. chairman, please! we will probably return to this subject in six months' time and face the same problems. we will be concerned, on the one hand, that the police and europol are as efficient as possible. and on the other hand, we have to keep in mind that we are also moving in the area of human rights and very often in the area of sensitive data. we will continue to have the same work to do, and i would therefore like to draw particular attention to article 15 of the council decision on the adoption of implementing rules governing europol's relations with partners, including the exchange of data. well, i'd like to point out that we're talking about very sensitive data here, and we're saying that you should only share it when it's absolutely necessary. we have to think about who decides what is absolutely necessary, because this is a very important issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are responsible as european union countries for the situation in georgia. it is very good that the authors of the resolution recall that the economic situation in georgia was very good before the conflict broke out. the 2008 conflict in georgia caused a serious deterioration in the economic situation in that country. we are dealing with a country that aspires to work closely with the european union and to have a chance of its own european perspective in the future. i want to point out that the russian sanctions, the general situation in the caucasus and the consequences of last year's conflict are not allowing georgia to develop normally, to build a normal economy. this is another specific reason why we have to stress that georgia should receive macroeconomic assistance, that georgia's budget should be strengthened so that it can develop economically according to its ambitions, and that, to the extent possible, if there is a need, this assistance should be given to georgia - i want to emphasize this clearly - and increased. the key issue is to provide financial assistance as early as 2009. in our view, procedural issues and various procedural details should not in any way prevent aid from reaching georgia later this year. georgia deserves our support, and that is our commitment as the european union, especially when sarkozy's plan is not being implemented in georgia and when we are unable as an arbiter, as the european union, to ensure that relations between georgia and russia are regulated in accordance with international law.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission's proposed macro-economic assistance to georgia, armenia, bosnia and herzegovina and serbia is certainly a step in the right direction, but its scope is still significantly insufficient. i am thinking in particular of georgia, which is to receive 46 million euros, which in the context of the real problems that the country is facing, the economic crisis, but also those that are the result of the war with russia, which has significantly weakened the momentum of economic development of the country, this aid is certainly small. we must remember that countries like georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and kazakhstan are not only politically important to the european union, but also strategically important in terms of energy security. they will be the ones to decide, and they are already deciding, what the future supply of energy resources to the european union will look like. if we don't support them today, financially, politically, if we don't give them a chance to develop, russia will do it very quickly, because these countries are of enormous importance and strategic importance to russia. i therefore regard the commission's proposal as constructive and good, but the level of financial support as significantly inadequate.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr david martin on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the alignment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament with the treaty of lisbon (2009/2062 (rec)) (a7-0043/2009).
i would like to inform you that after the speeches by the representatives of the political groups, i will inform you of the technical arrangements for voting on this report.
i think it is a misunderstanding. everything could be discussed. nothing is closed from this point of view. the first example is our one-minute speeches. i must answer you immediately because nothing is closed but we must go from decision to decision, taking into account our rules in the european parliament, nothing else. but you have very much opened this discussion.
if you would like to discuss it i can discuss it with you straight after the sitting, but i do not want to disturb our discussion here in plenary.
thank you, mr. speaker. as you know, we are in the middle of a discussion of the matter you have raised, and i would ask that you not prejudge the facts. we're trying to solve this case, and as you know, the unresurrected group has not put forward a candidate, so they're not participating in some of the work. the group has no candidate that the unbaptized members would agree to. but we'll figure this out. the conference of presidents of the political groups decided not to vote on wednesday on those parts of the david martin report which are not related to the lisbon treaty, as they require a wider discussion. the point is that the vote should be held on wednesday and that it should concern those matters which are related to the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. this is the decision of the conference of group chairmen. this decision must be implemented.
i have no doubt that i intend to do so and i will do so, and i also wanted to meet with mr casini and a few colleagues to present the list. i wanted to show it to you personally as rapporteur, but we have not had the opportunity to do so because you were not here before. it's just a technical issue and nothing more.
the parliament's services were obliged to prepare this list and i only received it two hours ago. it is therefore completely fresh and i shall present it to you immediately.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2009.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the copenhagen summit on climate change.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last time i was here in parliament to discuss climate issues was just before i met my colleagues at the october meeting of the environment council. at that meeting we agreed on a strong and united eu mandate for the un climate conference in copenhagen. we agreed, among other things, that by 2050 the eu's emissions must be reduced by between 80% and 95% compared with 1990. we also stated that the eu will reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 under all circumstances, but that we want to reduce by 30% if a sufficiently far-reaching agreement is reached in copenhagen. when comparing emission reductions with those of other countries, we will not least attach importance to the objective of limiting the temperature increase to 2 degrees, as a benchmark also for comparison with emission reductions in other countries. emissions from international transport shall be reduced. we have set ourselves the target of reducing air traffic by 10% and maritime traffic by 20% by 2020 compared with 2005. let me also say clearly that the eu demands that the shipping and aviation levies be used to pay for the efforts of developing countries, especially the poorest and most vulnerable countries. it has to be one of the results in copenhagen. the destruction of rainforests must be halved by 2020 and stopped by 2030. the eu is calling for decisions at the copenhagen summit to stop deforestation, support reforestation and create sustainable forestry. only then can we reduce emissions fast enough to achieve a successful outcome in copenhagen. the eu has gradually clarified and moved its positions forward, and thus has been able to make demands and put pressure on other parties all along the way. this has been done in particular in cooperation with the european parliament, where the climate and energy package has formed the basis of the eu's ambitious positions. now, there's only two weeks left until the copenhagen climate summit. there are many pessimists around us who have been sidelining the riot in the last month. but what really counts is the political will to lead and the eu has that will. to achieve the result we have been working for so long, we must now mobilise all the forces within the european union. the european parliament, in particular, will continue to play an important role. let me therefore first state that the eu's objective for an agreement remains unchanged. it is necessary to reach a far-reaching and comprehensive agreement in copenhagen. earth's climate has waited long enough. the time for a settlement is now. yesterday we held an extraordinary meeting of the environment council to work together to make copenhagen the climate change milestone we wanted. in the eu decision for the copenhagen conference, the heads of state or government stated that the eu's objective is for the copenhagen process to lead to a legally binding agreement for the period from 1 january 2013 building on the kyoto protocol and containing all its essential elements. it requires an agreement in copenhagen that, taken together, will deliver emissions reductions so large that the goal of keeping global temperature rise below 2 degrees is within reach. an agreement with all countries that means that the developed countries commit to emission reductions that cover their total emissions, that means economy-wide target; we assume that every industrialized country appends its commitments to the copenhagen agreement, including the united states. an agreement whereby developing countries commit to action that reduces emissions relative to what would have happened without action, particularly in the major economies, and whereby developed countries provide immediate financial support for necessary actions in developing countries, not least in the poorest countries, in 2010, 2011 and 2012. an agreement establishing a system of long-term support for emission reduction, adaptation, technology cooperation and technology transfer. finally, an agreement must also include a review mechanism so that it can be adapted to what science shows is necessary to cope with the climate. there has been talk of a 'two-step solution'. for the eu, the copenhagen agreement is rather the decisive step. the decision on all matters of climate importance will be taken in copenhagen. the binding agreement will be transposed into a ratifiable text with a clear timetable, which is a more technical matter, as the content will be delivered in a comprehensive agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. in fact, such a settlement also enables us to take action more quickly than would otherwise have been the case. it will also be crucial to our achievement of the 2°c target. the eu has been particularly active in providing rapid funding for adaptation and forestry measures. rapid action is needed if we are to be able to turn the earth's emissions curve down fast enough. what's on the table right now is not enough to meet the 2-degree target. the most far-reaching offers at the negotiating table have been put forward by the eu, while we have been pressing for other parties to raise their bids. that's what happened. we have seen that the fact that we have used our 30% target as leverage has also put pressure on other parties. it is gratifying that developed countries such as norway and japan have raised their bids, and recently russia, and that developing countries such as south korea, brazil and indonesia have also recently presented ambitious plans. we're going to keep pushing. our 30 percent will continue to be used as leverage. now we're waiting for the united states and china in particular. we note that president obama has spoken of an agreement which would either contain only certain parts or be merely a political declaration. he also agreed that it should contain all the key elements and also the measures that can be put into effect immediately. a copenhagen agreement must cover all the world's emissions. without bids from the us and china, only half of the deal is covered. let me be very clear. a deal could be put on hold if the us and china put sufficiently ambitious bids on the table. the eu will continue to press for adequate measures to be put forward in the negotiations. two weeks before the final negotiations, we will continue to hold our leadership. i look forward to continuing cooperation with parliament, not least through the cop15 group which will be in copenhagen. i look forward to the dialogue. we will work together to achieve a very successful, ambitious and real agreement in copenhagen.
member of the commission. - the mr president, we are now very close to the crucial copenhagen conference; there's very little time left. i fully agree with minister andreas carlgren that we must intensify our efforts and work closely together to ensure that we do not lose this historic opportunity that is before us, namely to achieve in copenhagen a global, comprehensive, ambitious, science-based agreement on climate change. as mr carlgren said, we must agree on the whole content, the whole substance of the agreement in copenhagen and then we must proceed with the legal processing immediately afterwards, in the coming months, in the first half of 2010, so that we have the full, legally binding agreement for which the european union has been fighting from the very beginning. i would like to thank the european parliament for the resolution on the european union strategy for copenhagen. it is an ambitious resolution which confirms the importance which the european parliament attaches to the issue of climate change. and i am counting, without a doubt, on the support of the members of parliament and in copenhagen. i would also like to stress the importance of their contacts with parliaments in third countries, with civil society and with businesses, in order to make the european union's position known and, in this way, to put pressure on other countries to follow up with binding declarations on the reduction of greenhouse gases. i particularly share parliament's call for an agreement that meets the 2°c objective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: it is positive that parliament in the draft resolution is in favour of solutions based on market mechanisms and supports the revision of the clean development mechanism in a future agreement. in this connection, as you know, the commission is of the opinion that the existing instruments of the carbon dioxide emission system should be extended by the establishment of a sectoral credit facility. as regards reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, in red, the commission will make every effort to promote strong social and environmental standards, also taking into account the impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. however, the challenges are great. in copenhagen we must aim high so that we can reach an agreement based on scientific findings, that is, we must not exceed 2°c. we must also ensure that all countries make the necessary commitments in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. we also expect the united states, eight years after its withdrawal from kyoto, to take its share of the responsibility. finally, we must take care of a number of details, such as ensuring that the emerging economies do contribute in accordance with their capabilities and the principle of diversification, which i mentioned earlier; the amount of financing required should also be predictable and stable; in addition, funding for the rapid start-up must be secured in copenhagen, so that those things that need to be done can be done immediately without waiting for the period 2010-13. this will allow immediate action to be taken and the necessary adjustments to be made, particularly in the most vulnerable regions of the world, in the very poor countries. the european union must set an example and confirm its leadership at this crucial juncture. the preparatory conference we had in copenhagen last week was a useful exchange of views with many of our international partners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. similar announcements are expected by copenhagen week from other countries, in particular china and india. this morning the news showed that the united states will also be tabled with its proposal for cuts and - i hope - for funding. we also had an interesting exchange of views on the issue of transparency and more specifically the so-called monitoring, reporting and verification system, the mrv. what remains extremely important is to secure further commitments for concrete measures and actions towards a less carbon-intensive economy. developing countries as a group and within their means should make reductions of 15-30% compared to the situation that would have occurred had no measures been taken (business as usual). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. japan, australia and norway improved their commitments; however, the other countries do not seem to be willing to follow. it has also become clear that the united states will unfortunately not be able to adopt domestic legislation before the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and, as i said earlier, the information says that is exactly what will happen, but - i am afraid - on the condition that the internal legislation is voted on which is not expected until the end of the year, so it will be subject to a veto. the european council in copenhagen has already made it clear that the european union is not prepared to accept the united states' position on the matter. it is now clear that action by developed countries alone is not enough. developing countries should certainly contribute, with emphasis on the development of low-carbon economies. as i said, developing countries need to reduce their emissions by 15-30% from business as usual. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also want this agreement to be comprehensive, to cover all the elements of the bali action plan, to incorporate the progress made to date and to contain quantified emissions reductions and financing. as regards the architecture of the agreement, it should cover all elements related to adaptation, emission reductions and quick start funding. the procedures and timetable for concluding negotiations with a view to a legally binding treaty should also be agreed in copenhagen as soon as possible, within the first months of 2010; chancellor merkel spoke about the first half of 2010. a substantial and comprehensive agreement will give a significant political impetus to the negotiating process and will make it possible to complete the legal process within a reasonable time after copenhagen. in this context, funding will be crucial. copenhagen will fail if we do not manage to mobilise the necessary investment and financial resources. in conclusion, i would like to mention once again the decisive role played by the european parliament in promoting the european union's ambitious climate policy. it has been a leader in the european union and internationally, and has contributed to the encouragement of our strategic international partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you, commissioner, for a very interesting speech in which you spoke about the important problems we are facing before copenhagen. you spoke for slightly longer than we expected, so i expect we will have shorter remarks from yourself at the end of the debate. it was so interesting that it was not possible to stop it!
mr. chairman, please! in kyoto, we gave developing countries concessions and exclusions that led to us losing a lot of our competitiveness. at this time in 2005, developing countries exceeded the european co2 emissions. today, parliament wants to do more than just burden the economy with even more drastic climate regulations. the resolution proposed calls for a budgetary burden of 30 billion euros a year for the next 10 years on developing countries. for poland, the proposed way of calculating this contribution could mean up to eur 40 billion by 2020. the questionable effects of the kyoto protocol, the privileging of developing countries and the rising costs of this policy are the reasons for our opposition. we are responsible not only for the climate, but also for the well-being of our citizens.
madam president! i'm asking you to maintain proper proportions. contrary to what we've heard here, these are not the most important negotiations in human history, and in fact, the future of humanity does not depend on these negotiations, as some of our colleagues have portrayed it. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. it is regrettable that it has been assumed that the real financial consequences of this package will be borne primarily by the poor countries of the new union. the decision to make the financing of this issue dependent on a question of not per capita income, but the pollution limit is a decision that strikes at the economy of the countries of the new union, including my country, poland.
madam president! once again, the magic word 'success' is being used over and over again in a matter of great importance to the european union. the presidency wants to succeed, and it wants to succeed above all else. meanwhile, the european press is full of information that the copenhagen summit will not succeed. we're wondering why it's not working. because governments sense that if we were to say everything clearly, if the citizens of the eu countries knew the consequences and the premises for which we want to make important decisions, the uncertainty of those premises and the consequences of our actions, they would be against it. i want to say only one thing, and this is the most important: the european union is responsible, the countries of the european union are responsible for what is happening in the world, but above all they are responsible for their own peoples, for their own countries, for their own citizens, who put their hopes in our actions, including their hopes for their good development in the future. we must take this into account. when we want to take responsibility for things on a global scale, i'm not going to go into details here, then that responsibility must be shared equally by everyone, some in terms of reduction, some in terms of environmental protection, some in terms of something else that we lack today.
the debate, the discussions, the negotiations on the international climate agreement in copenhagen have been going on for months. in this information frenzy, where some countries bid and bid against each other in declarations of ever more ambitious goals, while others have high expectations, and still others are completely passive, it is easy to lose sight of the ultimate goal of this historic agreement. it is about combating climate change, which could lead to a real ecological disaster. it's about the future of the planet, of all of us. that's why the educational work is so important. i have the impression that the views of the european citizens are increasingly diverging from those of the political elites. and it is dangerous in this matter simply that these proposals that are being put forward in the copenhagen forum are not treated as some kind of divine permission or the invention of political elites. there is a need for citizen education, and the european commission should be responsible for this. the fight against climate change cannot be seen as a whim of rich countries who want to impose their views on others. i believe that the commission and the delegations must continue to pursue an information and education policy on this matter. a strong policy is also needed to support the search for efficient carbon capture technologies from the production of the energy source that is coal. this technology should be given the same political status as other renewable energy sources. this should be a priority for the work of the european institute of technology, which we have recently set up in budapest. and lastly, the costs of creating a dedicated climate fund should be spread evenly across the member states according to their wealth.
madam president! the resolution on the european union strategy for copenhagen is a very important and ambitious document, but without a global agreement, the summit will not be a success. we know that the united states is trying to work out the details and final limits with international negotiators, but there are indications that they won't have time to make a final decision before the summit. it is also said that even negotiated restrictions may not be approved by the united states congress. the european union's leadership role is very important, but i have the impression that only the european union is ambitious. so the question is, what happens if the united states doesn't meet the 30% threshold? what mechanisms will we use to ensure that all parties meet their commitments, and will we not end up as a lone warrior, with enormous effort and enormous costs, without impacting climate change and reducing carbon emissions?
madam president! in a few days, world leaders, including representatives of the european parliament, will meet in copenhagen to discuss climate change. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is certainly important, but protecting european industry is equally important. we cannot allow european companies to fail and industry to be moved to third countries which do not reduce co2 emissions. the protection of technology and intellectual property must also be borne in mind, which is why the european union must play a leading role at the copenhagen summit, but it cannot set itself and others unrealistic objectives to achieve. the target of reducing carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 seems elusive in the absence of support from the biggest polluters such as the us, india and china. similarly, the draft resolution's commitment to achieve an 80% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2050 is also included. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of people who are unemployed by 20% by 2020.
in writing. the climate is changing. it's happened many times in the past. there are over six billion of us, and what was once considered extreme is now evident. moreover, poorly built infrastructure, such as energy, is often damaged, resulting in black-outs and interruptions in the use of information networks. there's also the problem of desertification of large areas of the earth. there is a humanitarian and economic disaster. the first signs of this are the unrest in somalia and the predictions of future conflicts over water. the tide of migration is rising. will the restrictive limitation of co2 emissions solve these problems? no, i'm not going. first of all, nobody has ever proven that co2 emissions are the cause of climate change. second, the effects of these restrictions are not expected until the end of the century. third, restricting emissions will only weaken humanity economically, and thus deepen the catastrophe. emissions trading is an anti-social proposition, and the cost is borne by ordinary people. and the profits will take over the financial world, including the speculative world. so, for humanitarian and social reasons, the key issue is not the unlikely causes of climate change, but the effects. it's not about adapting, it's about pre-activity. for example, in my country, water safety is an important issue right now.
in writing. - the adoption of the trautmann report means that the telecommunications package will soon be in force. this is good news for consumers whose rights are strengthened by this regulation. the ability to transfer a phone number to another network within a day, the increased transparency of tariff plans and the enhanced protection of personal data are among the many positive results of this package. moreover, the european parliament has taken into account the concerns of european citizens about the disconnection of internet users from the network. the european parliament defended the position that access to the internet is a right of every citizen. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation. this will certainly satisfy the advocates of open internet access.
in writing. − following a brutal attack by the russian federation in august 2008, georgia suffered a severe economic downturn, alongside a great deal of damage and loss of life. the european union cannot stand idly by in the face of georgia's economic problems and owes it an extraordinary macro-financial assistance to help it rebuild after last year's russian invasion. financial assistance from brussels will also help georgia to cope with the effects of the global economic and financial crisis. in view of the above and the strategic importance of georgia for the european union within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and the newly established eastern partnership, i supported the resolution on the proposal for a council decision on macro-financial assistance to georgia.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission. questions to be asked
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - you're absolutely right. i'd like to get that very much. unfortunately, that is not in the treaty. i agree with your colleague, mr verhofstadt. the real question is this. this obligation is not provided for in the treaty. as you know, i even published a letter asking the member states to help me with this gender balance issue. ideally, we would have an even more balanced commission. in any case, i am pleased with the situation we have reached at the end, and i would like to thank all those in parliament who have helped me in this task.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank you very much for coming today and i would first like to say that i think we should encourage our colleagues to participate more in such debates with the president, because some of the members are enjoying other attractions in strasbourg than the opportunity to meet you. my question concerns the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which has always been very important to the group of european conservatives and reformists, and in particular what the president has recently said and presented as part of his strategy: a new start for the common market. we really think that europe needs a common market. the recently adopted treaty of lisbon gives more power to the european institutions in a political sense and i think that there is a kind of gap between the political integration that is taking place and the economic integration. mr president, i would very much like you to pay attention to this issue of the launch of a new market from the beginning of your new term of office.
president of the commission. − yes, the high representative will at the same time be vice-president of the commission, so it is a great opportunity to put together the cfsp competences – which lie with the high representative – and the traditional community competences in external relations. to put it simply, we have the same person performing the task of javier solana and benita ferrero-waldner. that person will be doing this as vice-president of the commission but also as president of the council of foreign affairs. i think it is extremely important to have this idea at that level. in general, at the level of heads of state or government, as the treaty of lisbon states very clearly, it is for the president of the council to represent the european union in cfsp matters at this level and in that capacity, and for the commission to represent the european union in all other external matters, as set out in article 17 of the lisbon treaty.
president of the commission. − i can tell you that i have read the letter from the first minister for wales, but i have never read the document mentioned. there are some working documents in the commission, drawn up by all its services, but they do not reflect the commission’s views. it is only the college of commissioners that takes positions that are binding on the commission. we are at a preparatory work stage. i can tell you that personally i am extremely committed, as you know, to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and that regional policy remains a top priority of the next commission. regarding the budget review, i have decided in agreement with parliament – in the person of the chair of the budgetary committee – to present the budget review at a later date. it makes sense first to have an agreement on the broad outlines of the european union 2020 strategy, with the budget review then being presented by the new commission so that the new college will have full ownership of that proposal in order to work with you very closely on the future financial perspectives.
i would like to say something which is very serious. we are talking about the outcome of the last council meeting, of 19 november 2009. i know that almost anything could have been said or could have happened during the council meeting, but this was probably not an issue at the last council meeting, so please keep to the topic, because it is necessary.
ok, fine, if president barroso would like to answer that, but i would like to ask you, colleagues, to keep to our topic, which is very clearly defined.
president of the commission. − first of all let me tell you that i fully share the concerns expressed regarding the situation in bosnia. in fact it is becoming an extremely difficult matter. we are discussing this with the bosnian authorities and with all the relevant players, within and outside of europe. of course my answer to you is yes, i hope that cathy ashton will devote great attention to it, together with the commissioner for enlargement, because bosnia, as you know, is in the european union’s area of potential enlargement. certainly we have to do everything to be sure that the country establishes itself on its own feet and that it is able to consolidate its existence as a full state, a democratic state, that has aspirations one day to join our union.
president of the commission. − my responsibility is the overall coordination of the commission and of the strategy, but i will be working with several commissioners because, as you know, this european union 2020 strategy is by nature a transversal strategy, covering very important sectors, from economic competitiveness to sustainability – i.e. the environment – as well as social inclusion aspects. so it is a very broad remit of competencies. regarding the delay, you are right: there is some delay. unfortunately this is due to the fact that the european council did not take its decision any sooner, with the result that we cannot have the commission in place. so we are launching the working document today so that everything can be ready for the spring european council in march, because we ought to have had a new commission by now and we have not got one yet. i hope to have it by the end of january. anyway, i have only today – and this is another piece of news i want to give you – received the final name of the 27 commissioners-designate. only today. that is why we are running a little late, but nevertheless i think we have to make the most of the consultation period so that we have a serious consultation about the future european union 2020 strategy.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - i share your concern on this subject. that is why we have decided to do it now and not to put it off until later. so you'll have more time. if we are waiting for the new commission to take office, you will probably have to wait until the end of january. then we already are. it will be posted online today, if it hasn't already. i hope that you will make a commitment to this. i'm ready for you. in any case, the spring european council is the beginning and not the end of the process. but the rotating presidency of the council - which the treaty of lisbon retains - as you know, the spanish presidency has asked us with great insistence to draw up a first document which will serve as a basis for discussion. that is why i have insisted on presenting it now. i will do my utmost to ensure that all those concerned can participate and contribute to the revision of a strategy of great importance, as you yourself have stressed.
mr. chairman, please! at the top, when it comes to the main executive positions, the new union vs. the old union match, the score is 3-0 to the old union. from 1 january 2012, when the new president of the european parliament takes office, the european union will have no one to represent the 12 new member states. how would you defend that decision?
commission. - mr portas, thank you for your question. it is true that it was extremely difficult to get parliament's agreement to approve a specific budget for some of the actions relating to energy efficiency, energy security and also to the fight against climate change, and i am very pleased about that. i would like to thank all those who made it possible to adopt this budget. if, as i hope, we reach an agreement in copenhagen, then we will have to work to find the necessary funds in the budget for the implementation of that agreement. we are not there yet, we are not there yet, but i am absolutely convinced that if the member states have agreed on the future financing of the mitigation actions needed by the developing countries, then they will also have to agree on the means we must put in place to achieve this objective.
mr. chairman, please! the election of mrs ashton and mr van rompuy, the treaty of lisbon will change the way the commission operates. some changes are set out in the lisbon treaty, but some changes are vague, unclear and will be shaped by certain practices and decisions. i would like to ask you what changes you foresee in the work and functioning of the european commission in the near future and in the coming years. the present situation is conducive to such changes and, as i said, opens up a possibility which is not entirely defined by the treaty of lisbon. you mentioned electing certain commissioners. i am talking about policies and actions that go beyond the selection and allocation of new commissioners.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - first of all, i would like to join you in your words of solidarity with the palestinian people, who are indeed suffering from a lack of respect for their right to self-determination. as regards the specific question you asked me, it is the responsibility of the member states to recognise or not to recognise another state. our position, the position which the commission has always defended, is to support the coexistence of two states: the right of the state of israel to exist freely and without any threat to its security and, in parallel, the right of the palestinian people to build their own state. we want the coexistence of these two states to create a new situation, not only for the people of israel and the palestinian people, but also for the whole region, because this is indeed a very serious situation, which endangers not only the hope of the palestinian people, but also regional peace and peace in the world.
thank you, mr president of the commission. we achieved much more than last time, one month ago. thank you very much, too, for keeping perfectly to your time. we understand that it is not always easy to answer sometimes complicated questions in one minute. i think it is very helpful for all of us in the two institutions to understand each other. this is very responsible, and it is a very important signal for our citizens that the two institutions can discuss matters and communicate with each other. we will see you again for question hour next month. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i am not afraid to say that the stockholm programme is the most ambitious initiative in recent years in the area of justice in the european union. i am all the more pleased that one of the fundamental ideas of this programme is to make life easier for the people of the european union. the successful implementation of the stockholm programme in the area of justice will of course depend on the creation of a truly european judicial culture, changes in the practical approach to the creation of new law, and the proper functioning of the e-justice portal. the principle of mutual recognition, which i call fundamental, requires mutual trust, but also trust in the legal systems of other countries, which is what we've been talking about here today. these values can only be achieved through mutual knowledge and understanding, thus creating a european judicial culture. mutual knowledge and understanding can only be achieved through an active policy of exchange of experience, visits, information sharing, training for judicial staff, especially judges of the first instance, and a thorough modernisation of the university curricula in community universities, which is of the utmost importance. another issue is to emphasise the importance of the multilingual e-justice portal. the portal should have access to legal databases, to judicial and non-judicial electronic redress, to intelligent systems designed to help citizens find ways to solve legal problems and to use extensive registers, lists of judicial staff or simple guides to the legal system of each member state, so i am very pleased that minister and commissioner barrot have spoken about this. i would also like to stress the need to develop european legislation of the highest quality in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters, based on properly designed impact assessments, in order to provide citizens and businesses with effective instruments to address the various legal problems in the internal market. in an era of growing euroscepticism in many eu member states, the stockholm programme offers us the opportunity to show citizens that the eu institutions are responsive to their current needs.
mr. chairman, please! the stockholm programme is the answer to the important question of ensuring the security of the citizens of the union. but that is not always the answer. we do not need a complete unification of criminal and civil law, but only the harmonization of criminal and civil law, and that only in narrow, clearly defined areas. europe needs above all good cooperation between police and judicial authorities so that judicial decisions are effectively enforced and criminals are effectively prosecuted, regardless of the union's internal borders. the stockholm programme should therefore provide a number of incentives and focus on this. i would like to draw attention to three points in order to coordinate the activities of the member states. first, given the great value of free movement of persons, cooperation is necessary in the exchange of information on criminals who pose a particular threat to public policy. i am thinking in particular of the sexual offenders who are a threat to the weakest and most vulnerable, namely children, as the stockholm document rightly points out. work should be started as soon as possible on the establishment of a european register of sexual offenders, especially those who commit the most aggressive and serious crimes against children, with as wide an access to it as possible for interested persons and organisations. the freedom of movement of persons must be linked to the flow of knowledge and information about possible risks in order to adequately protect the public, including the most vulnerable, in this case children. secondly, the effectiveness of the execution of confiscation orders should be ensured. this is particularly true of the effective fight against organised crime, so that a judgment given in one country allows the proper search for the criminal's hidden assets in another country and their subsequent confiscation. this applies to both the direct and the indirect benefits derived from the offence. thirdly, while accepting that custodial sentences constitute the appropriate criminal response to minor offences, it must not be overlooked that, in certain particularly justified cases, custodial sentences constitute the only real and effective protection of the public against the most serious offences. therefore, it must be borne in mind that such punishment is also a just response to the most cruel crimes. in conclusion, i would like to express my appreciation for the document prepared and to stress that the programme should aim at improving cooperation between member states while preserving the national distinctiveness of their legal systems.
in writing. the stockholm programme commits the european commission to submit a proposal for the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. this is an important and significant step towards establishing a uniform minimum level of protection of fundamental rights in europe. by acceding to the convention, the eu institutions will be subject to external, independent scrutiny of the conformity of eu legislation and activities with the european convention on human rights. at the same time, the eu will be able to defend its case before the european court of human rights. the likelihood of any discrepancies in the case law of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights will be eliminated. referring to paragraph 16 of the resolution under discussion, i call for the swift opening of negotiations on the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights. in the context of this resolution, i call for poland's immediate withdrawal from the protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights to poland and the united kingdom. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the cfp will apply to all measures taken in the area of freedom, security and justice. it is shameful that the right-wing authorities of the republic, under pressure from the hierarchs of the catholic church, restrict the rights of poles. citizens of poland should enjoy all the rights of citizens of other eu countries. if we do not want the poles to be second-class citizens in the union, the cpt must be accepted in its entirety.
mr. chairman, please! i want to start with the following question: i worked for several years in the polish ministry of national defense and in connection with this i was in afghanistan many times, because there are two thousand polish soldiers serving there. the drama of the situation is that we have, on the one hand, people who are desperate, who cannot cope with this difficult situation because there is still a war going on. on the other hand, we have people there who (i don't hesitate to say this) play both sides by day they try to support those who rule there today and by night they favor the taliban. so my fundamental question is this: do we have the tools and the means to assess the real intentions and the real situations of those who come to europe? i think some of them come here just out of desperation, but there can be some cases where there's a lot of games.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr søndergaard, who started his work in difficult circumstances, who showed great patience and who at the same time showed such a tendency to balance his judgments and opinions. madam minister, i agree with you that it is good that the principles of transparency are being respected, including financial transparency, but i agree with those remarks which speak of something more. today is a very important moment, a kind of institutional moment. on the eve of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the council is in a way recognising that parliament is the only elected body, since it operates in the open. in order to be compatible bodies, the council should also work more openly, and that is what is happening at the moment. we are breaking the council's reluctance to cooperate with parliament. i think it will happen not only in this part, but it will also happen in other works, including the substantive committees. my group will therefore strongly support the motion for a resolution on discharge, as the honourable member will be able to see in the debate today. we don't go back to the numbers, we don't show the left side, the right side, revenue, expenditure, sound management; we don't have any major objections here, but we are glad that this debate is taking place in this way.
mr. chairman, please! i support the draft decision of the european parliament giving the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2007. i am glad that the swedish presidency and commissioner kallas have shown their commitment to tackling this problem. i would like to draw attention to a few issues that remain and will be a challenge for us in the coming years. the difficult and laborious process of giving discharge to the council shows what the european parliament wants. the european parliament wants transparency, an open but also formal dialogue with the council. these demands of the european parliament are persistent and stubborn, but they are not an expression of the malice of parliamentarians, they are an expression of concern for public money and should be an expression of concern for the transparency of the spending of taxpayers' money. i would like to emphasise that the process of giving discharge to the council is also an expression of the european parliament's rediscovery of the council's tasks, since it does not want to be excluded from monitoring and controlling the council's expenditure in any area of its activities. in my view, the discharge to the council for 2007 is a step in the right direction, but we should also be clear that there are still some unresolved issues that should be kept in mind by the council, and i hope for a constructive dialogue and for more and more transparency and openness in this dialogue in order to monitor public money as best as possible.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, that is a very valuable piece of information and i am glad to say that the commission feels the same way and has therefore done so. i want to say it again: the crucial problem for our small and mediumsized enterprises is indeed to obtain the necessary risk capital to finance research and innovation. this is why two important instruments have been created, the competition and innovation framework programme and the jeremie programme. in both cases, the objective is the same: to be able to mobilise cheap loans through the european investment bank and the european investment fund, with the help of risk capital - i.e. direct participation in the capital of the enterprise - and with the help of guarantees, in order to facilitate access for small and medium-sized enterprises. these are large-scale programmes involving many hundreds of thousands of european companies. you will understand that the european investment bank or the european investment fund cannot manage this lending in detail. this is why it is done through intermediary organisations, usually banks in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. you know my answer, of course, but i appreciate the question. i believe that all the programmes we have to make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to access funds are still open to expansion. the experience we have is quite positive and we should build on extend these programmes. i must ask you to understand that i do not wish to make any statements on the priorities of the eighth research framework programme. firstly, as you know, it is not my responsibility, but secondly, it would not be appropriate for me to prejudge the next commission to be set up. i can only say to you, as a representative of the commission, that the basic thesis of your question is that there is no doubt that our research, development and innovation policy over the next ten years must focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy and, more broadly, on technologies that enable a sustainable economy and way of life. you know, i've always said that energy efficiency is probably the cheapest and most effective form of sustainability policy, because we can do a lot with a relatively small amount of money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make some proposals to this effect.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the question does not arise because it has been thoroughly examined and decided in the context of the so-called pharmaceutical package which the commission presented last year. we have here a clear and unequivocal case law of the european court of justice which subsumes parallel trade in medicines under the freedom of the internal market and therefore there is no legal possibility to act against it. the pharmaceutical package presented by the commission last year does not contain any specific rules which would in any way affect parallel trade. the very important and far-reaching proposals relating to the protection of medicines against counterfeiting in the legal supply chain apply exactly the same rules to manufacturers of medicines as to those who operate parallel trade. there is no discrimination. i am not aware of anyone in the commission intending to take up this subject.
member of the commission. − in response to the first question, from mr tarabella, on energy prices, i can state that with the adoption of the third internal energy market package, the importance of the citizen in the internal energy market has been elevated considerably. the new measures are intended to improve the operation of the retail energy market and provide additional consumer protection. these topics are discussed and followed up at the citizens’ energy forum, established with the aim of improving the functioning of the retail market to the benefit of individual consumers. the forum, involving the representatives of consumers, industry, national energy regulators and national administrations, seeks to improve implementation of energy legislation and may develop elements for codes of conduct with self-regulating and even quasi-binding effects on the industry. in this context, a working group on billing was established at the first meeting of the forum in 2008. the working group’s recommendations are examples of good billing practice and were presented and endorsed at the second meeting of the forum in 2009. energy regulators and industry will report on the implementation of the billing recommendations in the next forum, which is expected to be in the autumn of 2010. the third internal energy market package also brought a new instrument intended to inform consumers – the european energy consumer checklist. the checklist is a tool that will help inform consumers in the member states of their rights – notably on billing – and assist with the implementation and enforcement of energy legislation. it aims to provide consumers with simplified, accurate and practical information on local energy markets. the harmonisation of the competences of energy regulators in relation to consumer protection, which will result in active market monitoring, will further enhance their protection.
member of the commission. − mr tarabella, your question is very much concentrated on why the charter was dropped. the public consultation entitled towards a charter on the european energy consumers was launched in july 2007. the results of the consultation showed that there was little knowledge of existing energy consumer rights. the idea of a charter that would create a single piece of legislation covering consumer rights that are currently included in a number of european directives and numerous national implementation instruments was rejected for legal reasons. the energy consumer rights that are in the existing european legislation are already legally binding. you ask why there cannot be a standard bill for all consumers. our working group on billing, set up by the first citizens’ energy forum, confirmed that industry’s right to self-regulation, promoting innovation in billing, should be preserved. at the same time, greater transparency and comparability of offered prices and services to consumers should be ensured. billing accuracy is closely related to metering frequency. meter-reading frequency is not defined by eu legislation. however, this is indirectly addressed by smart metering. i would like also to stress that during the citizens’ energy forum we endorsed the recommendations for good practice in billing, which aims to provide consumers with simple and clear information on gas and electricity bills. through the consumer market scoreboard, where we investigated different consumer markets, we spotted that the markets from where we had most complaints is the electricity market. the second is financial markets, and the third is local transport. that is why the commission has launched a major study on the retail electricity market and will present the results to the forum in 2010. this is the second layer of implementing the results of the consumer markets scoreboard and i believe that in the future this one will remain as one of the strongest instruments to make our diagnosis on how the retail market is functioning, especially in this case, which is of such an important and basic interest and also very much related to services.
member of the commission. − we are aware that the commission is not a price setter. what we can do and what we are committed to doing is to make prices transparent. in one of the recent directives – the 2007 consumer credit directive – we asked the banks to establish a common methodology to calculate the interest rate, on the basis of which consumers could compare the offers and find the best solution for them. we have several tools to work with; this is about unfair commercial practices and it is precisely the transparency of prices that is core to that directive. we also have another horizontal directive, on unfair commercial terms, which concerns whether the terms relate to undue and unjust enrichment. that is what i believe you hinted at when you asked the question about prices. this matter is in our hands and we also need to do everything possible to ensure that enforcement in all member states across europe is equally well implemented, because all these directives depend very much on how they are implemented. that is why i am proposing to the european commission a communication on enforcement. here we are breaking new ground, because enforcement is normally in the hands of the member states, but we need to compare the results and to have benchmarks, which, by the way – concerning the previous question on metering and on understanding – is why we are strongly encouraging the project on smart metering. this may not be a pan-european initiative, but countries like sweden, which is holding the presidency, are among the pioneers in this area. i can only encourage everyone to look at this example and make maximum use of it. this could also lead on to other questions, such as how to calculate the carbon footprint all of us leave through energy consumption. turning to other areas, the commission has recently been doing much more on labelling in respect of energy efficiency and more price comparison, encouraging the use of consumer indexes, such as has been the case in italy and other countries, because this is also a very good service, provided through the internet, which helps consumers to fight for a better price. however, in order to make this happen we need to have cross-border shopping and availability. cross-border trade via the internet currently stands at only nine per cent in the european union, so we really have a call of duty to complete the second phase of the internal market, which is the retail market. this area is one of the missing links in the internal market, and i very much hope that parliament and the commission will speed up one of the important directives proposed under the consumer rights directive, which aims to have a set of rules that will bring more certainty and more confidence – from the point of view of consumers and of businesses – to improve this really very poor level of cross-border trade in europe.
member of the commission. − following the request of member states and stakeholders, the commission proposed the regulation on nutrition and health claims, which was adopted in december 2006 by parliament and the council. the aim of the regulation is precisely to ensure that nutrition and health claims made on foods are truthful, clear and based on generally accepted scientific evidence, so that the consumer is adequately protected. the commission therefore aims to establish lists of permitted health claims as well as to update permitted nutrition claims. the regulation sets authorisation procedures to ensure that only scientifically substantiated health claims are made. these procedures involve firstly the european food safety authority, which assesses the substantiation of health claims; secondly, the commission, which proposes draft measures authorising or rejecting health claims accordingly; and thirdly, the member states, which give their opinion on the measures in the regulatory committee. the commission has so far adopted four regulations authorising or rejecting health claims. similar measures will continue to be adopted according to the evaluation of the health claims from the european food safety authority, thereby ensuring that consumers are not misled.
member of the commission. − i can only agree with the honourable member. this is exactly the reason why we put forward this regulation. i must say we were amazed by the number of applications received. we were expecting a few hundred and we received 44 000 claims. we consolidated this 44 000 into a group of 4 000, which we submitted to the european food safety authority (efsa) for an opinion. that is the reason why efsa is not in a position to complete the examination of all 4 000 claims within the time limit of december 2010. but i think it is very important for the consumers that we finish this process and that they know exactly when they see a claim, and they see some food in the supermarket with a claim, they will know for sure that this is based on science and is not misleading.
i wanted to thank the commissioner for the information. what you're doing is really very important. over 40,000 companies are trying to get a decision on whether their products meet the highest standards and criteria. but what if they get that confirmation, and in practice, after a while, those products don't meet all the requirements, all the parameters that are on the labels? what are you going to do, especially with the big multinational corporations? they got approval, they got approval, they got it on the label, and the reality is something else entirely. what will happen then?
mr. chairman, please! by launching the european globalisation adjustment fund, the union is once again facing economic challenges together. this time, it's a structural change in world trade. as in the case of the financial crisis, only integrated action can be effective in countering the effects of globalisation. the funds raised for the redundant workers will give both the belgian textile workers and the irish dell factory workers a direct chance to retrain and find a new job. the fund also aims to promote entrepreneurship and self-employment. such sectoral support in different countries is a proper expression of social solidarity within the union. the fact that dell, which justified the transfer of its production from ireland by looking for a country with lower labour costs of production, found such a country still within the union, found it in poland, in the city of łódź. the łódź region is in a difficult situation in terms of employment, and the della plant has created some 2000 new jobs. the investment will significantly improve the situation in the łódź region and increase the development dynamics of the entire region.
mr. chairman, please! the main objective of the mediterranean association agreements is first and foremost to establish closer cooperation, mainly trade, between the union and the mediterranean countries and to restructure their economies. the european union can thus help the arab world to become a prosperous region, and this will create the conditions for closer cooperation and a chance to achieve stability in the region. we must do everything we can to accelerate the process that was launched in barcelona, with particular regard to the issues of democracy, the rule of law, values, human dignity and economic and social development. the issue of enhancing intercultural dialogue will also play an important role in this context. in my view, the liberalisation of agricultural trade in the euro-mediterranean area can contribute to a favourable trade situation, provided that the union focuses mainly on exports of cereals, meat and milk and imports of fruit and vegetables from the mediterranean countries. the implementation of such an extremely ambitious programme of action as the euro-mediterranean partnership will require a lot of effort and compromise from the countries involved in this process.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i want to thank brian simpson for even asking that question and congratulate him for bringing that question up in our debate, late, because late, in the sense of late at night, but very good that it is. when we displayed the subject of this question, we had this caption: context european rail system. i dare say that we do not yet have a european railway system. why would you do that? every railway has its own technical standards, if there are electrical railways, it's either dc or ac. if it's variable, it's either 15 kv or 30 or 35 kv. a curious fact that i can say, especially in the presence of mr tajani, is that in the north-south system the two railways are similar, that is, the polish and the italian. all the others between us are different. so, mr president, let us give the railways a chance, let us create a truly european railway system, even against the all-powerful national railway companies.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 10 and 11 december 2009.
i would like to ask president farage to temper his tone a little, because not all expressions and phrases can be easily accepted.
your way of describing the selection of people who are so important for the european union and what you say about the whole issue connected with it are, in my opinion, absolutely improper to the whole situation. (protests)that is my opinion, colleagues.
mr. chairman, please! the forthcoming european council will continue to be dominated by the recent elections of the president of the council and the head of eu diplomacy. what surprised many was not just the choice of these particular individuals, but the lack of a clear list of their competence. we have long been convinced that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will improve the union's activities, and yet it is clear from the outset that it is provoking personal conflicts. none of the candidates presented their programme, unlike mr barroso, for example, who had presented one before us. we're entering an experimental period where a lot depends on the personality and imagination of the new leaders. it is to be hoped that, rather than dealing with the european commission's staffing problems or the cyclical changes in nature that are largely independent of man, they will tackle the specific problems of the citizens of the european union, such as the economic crisis, aid to the poorest regions of the union and the fight against terrorism.
mr. chairman, please! the european council on 11 and 12 december will sum up the successful swedish presidency. i want to congratulate the minister and the entire government on completing a very difficult ratification process. second, it starts to implement the treaty of lisbon. it also creates new institutions, such as the president of the european council or the high representative for foreign affairs. we know that this casting has been the subject of discussion and controversy, including in this room. we wish the nominees well, but we want to say that the real test will be the quality of eastern policy or the process of shaping the european external action service. we regret that there is no one in this team who represents central and eastern europe. i think the new distribution may well bring that claim to fruition in the future. the copenhagen climate summit is expected to endorse, among other things, the ambitious goals set by the european union. that's also the subject of the next council. at the same time, the stockholm programme, important from the point of view of both security and citizens, and the new provisions that the lisbon treaty introduces. at the same time, all the issues that are related to the economic crisis are added to this. our expectations for the entry into force of the lisbon treaty are first and foremost a more efficient union, capable of enlargement and benefiting citizens and member states alike. we expect the lisbon treaty to bring about a new start for the common market, bridging the gap between political and economic integration. at the same time, we would like the new european commission to be set up with respect for parliament, the rights of the european parliament and the implementation of a new role, also for national parliaments, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and to trigger a debate on the shaping of europe after lisbon. the practical implementation of the lisbon treaty is to recognise that solidarity and energy policy also apply to existing law, for example the regulation on the security of gas supply.
mr. chairman, please! the most important work of the swedish presidency is the treaty of lisbon, which is a new opening for europe. a roadmap for its implementation should be established. the job seating is just the beginning. second, we need to adopt an economic recovery plan. we have to remember not just to help the banks, but to help the people, especially in terms of reducing unemployment. and third, we're working on a strategy to combat climate change -- that's good. we set the objectives, but we must remember that the priority in the financing is to fight the crisis. fourthly, the stockholm programme is a safe, open and free europe - and then there is a common europe. a balance between these important values is needed. finally, the development of the baltic sea region requires greater cooperation between the member states in the region, and sweden has done a lot in this regard.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
if you'll allow me, i'll meet with mr. farage and have a friendly talk about this. that's my offer. thank you very much. thank you.
i understand your concern. would the rapporteur care to comment on this? can the rapporteur comment?
would anyone representing the commission like to comment on this matter? how about chairman jo leinen? are you suggesting that we change the order of voting? i'll say that this change is unexpected for us, there was no such proposal.
maybe it was my fault. i am sorry.
member of the commission. mr president, i have heard the message. i shall pass it on to the president of the commission and to the other commissioners.
thank you for that remark!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the mass redundancies are undoubtedly a negative consequence of the economic crisis, which, contrary to popular opinion, continues to persist. there is no doubt that those who have lost their jobs in these countries need help. the loss of their jobs is a tragedy for these people and their families. that is why i believe that the role of the european globalisation adjustment fund is particularly important in difficult times of crisis. i believe that the fund's budget should be significantly increased in the future to meet the needs of society. the economic crisis continues to take its toll in the form of mass redundancies, often leading to human drama, increased social pathologies and many other negative effects. that's why i think we should do everything we can to help people who are affected by the economic crisis in the most effective way.
in writing. − the parliament's resolution on the eu strategy for the copenhagen climate change conference is an important legislative document, which provides an important voice in the international debate and negotiations leading up to the climate summit, which is intended to complement the eu's position on the issue. if the european union is to remain a leader in tackling climate change, it must continue to set ambitious reduction targets and meet its reduction commitments, setting an example for other countries despite the difficulties. the european parliament, as the only democratic institution of the eu, has a crucial voice in this debate, which is why our resolution should set the right direction and set real priorities. the text of the resolution itself cannot be a mere collection of demands and wishes without cover, but should represent a coherent and above all a solidary voice of eu citizens based on the principle of the common but differentiated responsibility of the member states to combat climate change. as a serious negotiating partner, the european union as a whole, taking into account the interests of all member states, is to sit at the copenhagen table. the eu should be prepared to increase its reduction targets to 30% if other countries are also prepared to set themselves such high reduction targets. it should also be remembered that the eu has no unconditional commitment, but only a conditional one.
in writing. - in today's vote on the eu strategy for the copenhagen climate conference, the european parliament took a radical and unrealistic position. the european parliament is calling for a doubling of co2 emissions reductions in eu countries, challenging the recently hard-won climate package (paragraph 33 calls for a 40% reduction). the european parliament, by calling for €30 billion a year to be spent on clean technologies in developing countries, expects coal-fired countries such as poland to pay twice for co2 emissions: once as a fee for emissions trading and once as a contribution to help developing countries combat climate change (paragraph 18 says that the contribution should be no less than €30 billion a year). in demanding that the member states' contribution to clean technologies in developing countries be calculated on the basis of co2 emissions and gdp, parliament omitted the criterion of the ability to bear these costs. this means a cost of 40 billion euros for poland over the next 10 years! (these are the consequences of rejecting amendments 31 and 27). this is the reason why the polish delegation was the only one to vote against the entire resolution on the eu strategy at the copenhagen conference on climate change (cop 15).
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the political strategy for an area of freedom, justice and security, known as the stockholm programme, will be adopted by the council in december this year, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. moreover, at a particular moment when the european parliament's decision-making powers have been greatly increased, the role of national parliaments in the process of establishing community law will also be increased. this will give the citizens a stronger mandate to enforce the stockholm programme. i believe that it is particularly important and urgent to work towards ensuring equal treatment for all citizens of the european union, regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, religious or philosophical affiliation, colour, origin or ethnicity. to this end, it is necessary for the council to adopt a horizontal directive on non-discrimination, covering all the areas mentioned above. the european union lacks such a law, as we have repeatedly pointed out in the european parliament. i hope that this gap will be filled by the implementation of the stockholm programme. however, it is not enough to simply make laws. if the stockholm programme is to succeed, eu citizens need to know their rights. the new european commission will therefore also have to raise public awareness of anti-discrimination legislation and gender equality.
in writing. − i would like to comment on the multiannual programme 2010-2014 for an area of freedom, security and justice (stockholm programme) the primary task of the member states is to ensure that the citizens of the european union enjoy freedom, security and justice. the european union countries must increase cooperation in judicial matters, without sacrificing the traditions and fundamental rights of the member states. there is a need to increase mutual trust between member states in the correctness of decisions taken by the authorities of another member state, in particular in the areas of legal and illegal immigration and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the union must step up its efforts to combat crossborder crime and terrorism. to this end, measures should be taken to improve the efficiency of the exchange of information, while respecting the protection of privacy, personal data and fundamental freedoms. security in europe is our common cause, as is the common single market, and we should do everything we can to make sure that every citizen feels safe within the union, which is a fundamental value for us.
we have an important event ahead of us, we will sign very important documents with minister asa torstensson about the telecommunications package. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. the legislative acts that constitute the telecommunications package have been adopted in a codecision procedure. electronic communication and the internet have become the main tools of our modern societies. and this legislative package is a good example of how our work can help people and how it can affect their daily lives. first of all, we have the revised framework directive on the regulation of electronic communications networks and services. the rapporteur was a colleague of mine, mrs catherine trautmann. the directive was adopted at third reading. you can see how much work it took to get the best deal for our citizens. other elements of this directive are more efficient and more strategic management of radio frequencies, more competition and easier investment in the internet of the future. the directive on universal services and citizens' rights, the directive for which our colleague mr malcolm harbour was rapporteur, is also an important step towards offering better services. we wanted to improve consumer rights, protect privacy, protect personal data, and make it easier for every citizen to keep the same mobile phone number when changing operators, and to do so in less than one working day. finally, in order to implement these principles more effectively and coherently, parliament and the council agreed to set up a european organisation of 27 national operators. the rapporteur for this question was mrs pilar del castillo vera. i therefore express my great appreciation of course to the rapporteurs, who are always the key people. i would also like to thank all those whose hard work on the directives we have just passed has contributed to today's success. the efforts of many people have contributed to this success. first of all, the successive presidencies; most notably the czech and the current swedish presidencies, which were responsible for the second and third readings. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner reding and the european commission for preparing this solution. it was not the only good solution during the five years of the presidency. congratulations, your cooperation is helping us a lot, also to influence the perception of the citizens of what we do. of course, the three rapporteurs were very deserving here, but so was the chairman of the itre committee, our colleague herbert reul, and the vice-president of parliament, our colleague alejo vidal-quadras, who chaired the conciliation group. so, a large group of people contributed to today's success. i would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of all of us, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, but above all on behalf of the citizens of the european union, to express our great respect and appreciation, because this is the best example of our ability to do something that citizens regard as a great success and that makes their lives easier. i congratulate you very much.
mr. chairman, please! enlargement of the european union is in the interest not only of those countries which are joining and aspiring to join, but also of all of us. it increases integrity and security. we therefore welcome the progress made by the western balkan countries and turkey and the fact that iceland has applied for membership. there is such a thing as enlargement fatigue, but let us remember that any democratic european country that meets very specific criteria can apply for membership of the european union. let's remember those criteria, but let's not close the door on the aspirants. let us not close the door to our eastern partners either. we should offer ukraine a clear prospect of membership. and one other thing. the word solidarity is used very often in the european union, and it is this word that attracts other european countries to our community and at the same time commits us to further enlargement of the union. unfortunately, the union has not always shown solidarity in its internal relations. an obvious example is the nord stream project, which is directly aimed at transit countries, poland in particular, and south stream, which is moscow's response to nabucco's energy diversification plans. it is very worrying that individual eu countries are so easily manipulated by russia. therefore, pursuing bilateral interests between individual members of the union and russia leads to internal disputes and weakens our position, the position of the union. it's a violation of the principle of solidarity. expansion makes sense, but there has to be a balance between rhetoric and practice.
madam president! as a pole, but also a citizen of the european union for the last five years, i would like to express my great satisfaction at being able to speak here in such a distinguished circle, with the participation of people as committed to the enlargement process as commissioner rehn and minister bildt. we are talking about further enlargement of the european union, and we are talking about this in spite of those who say that the european union has already reached the upper limit of its territorial development potential. the only good news i have for those who oppose further enlargement is that in 2009 there will be no further enlargement of the european union. i would like us to look at the process of enlargement of the european union not just in terms of paragraphs, but also as a historical process. history shows that the balkans, for example, were the scene of many conflicts in the 20th century. conflicts that then spilled over to the continent, like world war i, or conflicts like the war in the 1990s, which also had its effects on other countries, for example, because of the migration of many millions of people. so the admission of the balkan states to the european union may be my task as the most important contribution in the history of the european union to stability and peace on our continent. i would like to say one more thing about what mr bildt said about the open door, and i would ask the member states not to forget that there are other nations, not mentioned in today's document, who dream of membership of the european union.
in writing. i thank mr gabriele albertini for his resolution on the enlargement strategy of the european commission. i agree, of course, that the candidate countries must continue the reform process. efforts should focus on ensuring the rule of law and equal treatment of ethnic minorities and on combating corruption and organised crime. the assessment of the political situation in turkey, including planned or implemented reforms and the main shortcomings, is a replication of the european commission's assessment in the interim report. progress is being made towards meeting the copenhagen political criteria, but unfortunately much remains to be done in the area of civil liberties in a broader sense. but the most important thing is that bilateral disputes are resolved by the parties involved. these should not in themselves constitute obstacles to accession, but the european union should seek to resolve them before accession. the european parliament should be an objective observer, because we would like to see the negotiations conclude with an agreement that would facilitate turkey's path to the eu. as a citizen of poland, a country that joined the european union in 2004, i know that the enlargement strategy is one of the most effective areas of eu policy. it is crucial that the european union also respects its commitments. the aim of accession negotiations is full membership, and therefore the fulfilment of hard but clear conditions should be a basic prerequisite for achieving this objective. this applies to all countries, including turkey.
mr. chairman, please! millions of women are beaten, molested, bought, sold, raped and killed just because they are women. more women die from aggression against them than cancer. we need to make the public aware that violence against women has no place in a modern, democratic society. let's start by educating the political class and freeing politics from the influence of those religions that sanction male domination. this is a necessary condition for genuine equality and the elimination of violence. in my country, the conservative right, under the clergy, denies women full human rights. the patriarchal family is promoted, and the woman is offered a 3k model of a kitchen, a crib and a church. women have no right to abortion, and there are plans to take away their right to in vitro fertilization. a polish mother carrying her cross bravely in the form of a beating husband is one of the absurdities that must be opposed socially and legally. i would like to invite you to the conference on combating violence against women, organised by the polish centre for women's rights, which will take place on 10 december in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, there has been a proliferation of initiatives to combat violence against women. unfortunately, this phenomenon persists in europe regardless of women's age, education or social status. so we must keep stressing that violence against women is neither natural nor inevitable. violence against women everywhere on earth is simply a crime and a violation of the right to life, personal dignity, security and physical and mental integrity. talking about violence is not just about portraying women as victims, it is above all about condemning the act itself and its perpetrator, who should not go unpunished. we need a long-term education of women and men that will break down stereotypes and make everyone aware of the need to fight this phenomenon.
in writing. in the context of the widespread campaign for respect for human rights, the issue of violence against women, including domestic violence, seems to be under-reported. the 2008 un campaign against violence against women revealed that women aged 15-44 are more at risk of rape and domestic violence than cancer, car accidents, war or malaria. between 40% and 50% of women in the union alone have reported various forms of sexual harassment at work. it is estimated that between 500,000 and 2 million people, mostly women and children, are trafficked each year into prostitution, forced labor, and slavery or servitude. i therefore welcome the fact that this problem has been raised in the resolution which has been prepared by the femm committee. a harmonised approach to combating violence against women is important and should therefore increase the effectiveness of such action. it is also important to provide appropriate assistance to women, to those who have already been victims of violence. however, it is equally important that the public is aware that domestic violence cannot be an uncomfortable issue confined within four walls.
in writing. it is a shame that so many cases of violence against women still occur in europe. the fact that a significant proportion of cases of violence are not reported to the police is of particular concern, especially in the case of serious crimes such as rape. no strategy to combat violence against women can be effective if victims do not report the violence to the appropriate authorities. the law must provide a strong response to this, so that victims can regain a sense of justice, while at the same time both victims and society as a whole are protected from similar cases in the future. it is of concern that in several eu countries, including poland, the penalties for sexual offences are very low and, in addition, their enforcement is often suspended. as an example, 40% of the sentences for rape in poland are suspended prison sentences. such lenient sentences are, in effect, a slap in the face to the aggrieved by courts that have taken a dismissive view of the harm done to them. taking violence against women seriously must mean taking the perpetrators of violence to task, to ensure that they are punished fairly for the harm they have done and at the same time to ensure that society is protected for the future.
madam president! i would like to thank you very much and to start by saying that we have received today, in my opinion, very good and reliable information from both mr bildt and commissioner ferrero-waldner. it is clear from this information, and it is true, that the union's action is based on two pillars. the first pillar is humanitarian aid, the second pillar is military action, and these are actions that are fortunately becoming more effective. but my question is this: shouldn't we be giving at least as much importance to state-building in somalia, because it's basically a powerless country, to building police there and building military forces? in my view, if this third pillar is not treated to the same extent as the first two, it will be difficult to succeed in the long run.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i will be very brief. somalia is a big problem. it has been a big problem for 20 years. we discussed piracy. but let us not forget the humanitarian situation, which is a disaster. let us not forget the problem of terrorists. let us not forget the region’s instability. over time, we need to try and deal with it all. but let us also be realistic. the international community, the united nations and others have been struggling with somalia for a very long time. results have been fairly limited. we are fairly late entrants in this area when it comes to trying to deal with somalia. we are trying to do certain things. in atlanta, we all claimed it a success, but let us not think that it can solve all the problems. when we are discussing extending it out into the indian ocean we are talking about absolutely enormous areas. and, even if we were to deploy all of the naval assets of all of the countries of the european union, i would not be certain of absolute success. and some of these pirates are of course fed money as well, which makes it possible for them to invest in further resources. that makes the problem rather challenging. that is not the reason for not doing what we can do. with the reservation of all of the difficulties, we should to engage in supporting the transitional federal government. that is what we are trying to do with different training programmes. is there a guarantee of this being successful? no, there is not. but the only thing that we can be absolutely certain of is that, if we do not even try, we are absolutely certain not to succeed. if we try, at least there is the possibility of us making a positive impact. and, if we have received nothing else, we have managed to secure the programmes of the deliveries of the world food programme to the starving and suffering people of somalia. that in itself is something to be proud of.
member of the commission. − madam president, i know very well that this is an issue that is very important in some member countries because of the victims they have had, because of the difficulties there. our greek colleague who asked me a question that i wanted to answer is no longer here, but i wanted to say what we have been doing and why i said that there was a certain success. as our president mentioned, there was the so-called djibouti process and the international contact group, of which the commission was part and where i know that our former colleague, louis michel, who is now a european parliamentarian, tried very hard to help and support the transitional government. it is this government that is still best placed to bring some stability to somalia. this is our first and foremost task, and we will have to do it with diplomatic and political support. then we have to help and protect the boats and all the people there. then we also have to do what i said before – the colleague who spoke last has maybe heard me before – i said before that institution-building, capacity-building, trying to help the legal process, to help the population, is absolutely fundamental. only then, when we have more stability in the country and steps have been taken to eradicate poverty, can all of that then be done. so it is indeed a very complex process. in order to be helpful, apart from the other things we now have concrete support ongoing for 29 projects, worth over eur 50 million, which is a huge amount of money for these people, that support governance, security and civil society, that support the reconciliation process and institution-building. the ultimate aim is to help create a functioning state that will be able to serve the somalian people and where we also have to combat terrorism. terrorism, unfortunately, is very much anchored there, where we nearly have a failed state, so we have a huge task indeed. somebody asked whether there could be a summit on piracy in the future. we, the commission, would certainly not be against it, but i think this is for the member states to decide and in particular maybe for the next, spanish presidency. if they have an interest then they might indeed do so.
in writing. the european commission and the council are right. the response to the situation in somalia can only be a comprehensive approach to the conflict in that country and a coordinated action by all actors working to stabilise the region and combat piracy. our immediate goal in terms of fighting piracy must of course be to continue operation atalanta. and even extending its mandate to protect fishermen. i can't understand why some mps don't want to protect the fishermen. if we protect commercial, tourist and food aid vessels, we should also do everything we can to ensure that fishermen can do their jobs safely. at the same time, we must not lose sight of the long-term objective, without which a lasting solution to the problem of piracy will never be possible. it's about peace, stability, poverty reduction and development of the country. therefore, acting in the long term, we must focus on: • strengthening the amisom mission;• strictly respecting and enforcing the arms embargo on somalia;• stabilising the country through a coordinated and comprehensive strategy of action by the european union, the african union and the us;• pursuing lasting peace agreements between the parties; and,• supporting the building of state institutions operating throughout the country.
mr. chairman, please! the international labour organisation has adopted and submitted for ratification by the european union countries a number of international conventions and directives on employment, freedom of association, social policy and social security, and collective labour relations and working conditions. member states should ratify and apply conventions recognised by the international labour organisation as up-to-date. the european union should make a strong and active contribution to the crucial issue of protecting workers' rights in a globalised world. it should be emphasised that every citizen, irrespective of his or her origin, religion or race, has the right to the improvement of his or her material well-being, to spiritual development in the context of freedom and dignity, and to economic security and equal opportunities. we must remember that poverty, wherever it occurs, is a serious threat to the public.
madam president! the number of people suffering from hunger and living in extreme poverty has increased dramatically in the last year, and it's not true that it's the fault of capitalism. there are political systems that are much worse for human life and for the fight against hunger, and i'll give you just one example. in europe, a few decades ago, a country that has very good agricultural conditions was brought to starvation by communism, which has killed more people in one country than are dying in the whole world right now. that country was ukraine. i would advise you to consider what is said in this chamber. in 2000, 198 un members made specific millennium development goals. the commissioner has spoken of the first, the most important objective. today we must answer the question of whether this goal is achievable. europeans are asking whether our priorities and our policies are right, and specifically whether, for example, the costly fight against climate change is more important than the fight against poverty. i myself was asked this week whether the european union is not mistaken in its aims and means and, instead of fighting the effects of global warming, is embarking on the costliest campaign in human history against wind turbines, namely climate change. i think the best evidence that there is no contradiction between climate action and ending hunger would be the effectiveness of the latter, which is actually ending world hunger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we need to do is convince developing countries and help them to invest in agriculture, and to fulfill their own declaration that 10 percent of the national budget will be devoted to agricultural development, because only in this way can we increase the potential of agriculture in poor countries and help fight hunger effectively.
madam president! at the last fao summit, the countries failed to come up with constructive proposals. the lack of a common strategy at international level is a cause for concern, especially in the face of the world's ever-growing population, which is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. we all remember the effects of the 2007 food crisis, when the price of basic agricultural commodities skyrocketed, leaving millions of people around the world without food. i think this crisis should be a lesson to us. we must stop the measures to limit agricultural production which have been surprisingly popular in our union in recent years. i believe that in the light of global trends in the food market, any attempt to limit the cap is an unwise move which threatens the food security of our continent in the near future. let's help developing countries develop agricultural policies that will enable them to provide food security for their own citizens.
madam president! we want to export, but we also have to import. trade accelerates development, it brings benefits to the parties involved in this exchange, but it also places the necessary demands on quality and meeting the relevant standards. this is obvious, and we probably agree with this. europe has various forms of inspection and control to protect its market from the entry of foodstuffs that do not meet european standards or that threaten our health. from what the commissioner said, we cannot expect the same control procedures as we apply to our own producers; am i correct in understanding that? what do you mean, as you've clearly indicated, that only the outcome of the inspection is to be the same? i would like to ask, for the sake of comparison, whether russia or another country, for example, can impose such requirements on imports of goods from the union as we cannot impose on meat imported from brazil, for example? does the effect case apply here as in the case of imports from brazil?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has recently noted a significant increase in beef imports from third countries, mainly argentina, brazil and uruguay. to import any products, including beef, into the union, they must meet high community standards, recently tightened by the european commission. however, very often products from third countries do not meet such food safety standards. nevertheless, their significantly lower price determines the competitiveness of these products on the market. the key issue now is therefore to support our farmers, to promote european products that meet high standards, are healthy and safe. there is another aspect to this subject. we should learn from the crisis in the dairy market. perhaps today, when we cannot cope with the overproduction of milk in many countries of the european union, it would be worthwhile to think about how to shift production to beef! thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to begin, in a very similar way to mrs gräßle, by expressing my appreciation to you, mr vice-president kallas, and to the court of auditors for the cooperation that has been given so far, which has resulted in the fact that, year after year, as we see the statistics in the statistical series, we have seen a clear improvement in the functioning of the budgetary part, in reporting, in reporting, in evaluation, and we have also seen the efforts that are being made to ensure that our budgetary procedures are correct in every respect, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in agreeing on the areas that required and that were subject to improvement, from the way in which the procedures are managed, to the way in which monitoring and supervision are carried out, to the way in which the reports are prepared. we are very concerned about the areas where there has been no significant improvement and these are the areas that president caldeira mentioned in his speech. let me repeat two of them which seem particularly relevant. first, it is precisely cohesion and regional policy measures. we believe it is of the utmost importance to answer the question why the programmes for the recovery of funds which were previously wrongly spent, which were planned and declared by the commission, have not been successful. secondly, it was declared that 2008 would be a much better year. the year 2008 was the same as 2007, i.e. these declarations were not reflected in the implementation. we will ask the question, which we will ask the commissioners at the hearings: were the measures provided for incorrectly provided for, were the declarations made incorrect declarations, are they still valid? we welcome any simplification, but not the primitivization of the rules. we welcome the advance payment formula, as it makes it easier for beneficiary countries to use these funds. after all, the overall objective was essentially to get the measure to the user, to achieve the intended amount of benefit, to achieve it in time. however, some of the measures seem to have been used, especially in the last two years, by the beneficiary countries to improve their current budgetary outturn, rather than to implement them in accordance with the area foreseen for funding. we are therefore very pleased with the direction we are taking and have some reservations about the areas we have chosen, but we will be very pleased to hear commissioners.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate is one of the most important debates in the european parliament, because our electors, taxpayers and citizens of the member states of the european union are very interested in the transparency of the functioning of the european institutions, and in particular of the european commission. on the one hand, this is an argument for the eurosceptics, on the other hand, we ourselves know that there have been many irregularities in this matter in recent years. i would like to recall the situation at the turn of the year 1999-2000, when the court of auditors was making a crushing criticism of the european commission, and it was absolutely justified. today we are seeing clear progress in this area, but i would like to stress the importance of this debate, because if we are looking for ways to increase the authority of the european union and the eu institutions, it is these principles of transparency that are of the utmost importance. if this authority was taken away last week by the way the european union elects its highest officials, it is being restored by debates like this one. i would like to stress that it would certainly be good if the president of the court could expand this information a little, because he spoke of six countries which are wrongly reporting data, mentioning two large countries: poland and the united kingdom. it would be very reasonable for us to hear the details of these anomalies. i would like to emphasize that advance payments are a very positive thing, but they also have a downside, because in fact, often governments use this money for electoral purposes.
mr. chairman, please! the discharge debate is becoming more interesting every year as meps go into more and more detail. in this debate, it is important to state the facts, explain the reasons, and draw conclusions. as regards the facts, it is very interesting for us as members of parliament to see the methodology of the court of auditors, and even more interesting is the fact that in some of the results the european commission does not agree with the diagnosis made by the court of auditors. we are interested in clarifying the differences of opinion between the european commission and the court of auditors during the debate. secondly, it is important to establish whether we are dealing with errors, whether we are dealing with irregularities, whether we are dealing with crimes. putting it in one bag causes the image to be obscured and discussions about whether to correct the errors or call the police. as for the explanation of the reasons, i would point out that the document we have shows that we have very serious irregularities in the public procurement system. the problem is therefore not just one of financial flows but of clarifying and simplifying public procurement matters. and the last thing is conclusions. the conclusions can vary greatly. first, the conclusions on the way of control, the conclusions on liability, but also the conclusions on future policy. and these are the easiest. it's very easy to conclude that if the money is being misused, and we have doubts about that, then it's best to partially reduce the policy. i would be very careful not to draw such conclusions, because financial control is one thing, but monitoring the effectiveness of policies is another, and deciding on the future course of action of the european union is another.
mr. chairman, please! the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget in 2008 shows that the situation is better than in previous years. it is particularly pleasing that the budget management has been improved considerably. the most significant improvement was in agricultural and rural development spending, which accounts for over 40% of the eu budget. this is a major change from previous reports. this is the result of the reform and simplification of the cap. we pay the funds according to simpler technical requirements. on the other hand, the court points to the controversy, as 11% of the errors in the payment applications submitted by the member states in the area of cohesion policy; i emphasise in the applications. many might think that these unfavourable figures are the result of the commission's or member states' mismanagement. i think there's a little bit of truth in that, but i think the problem lies elsewhere. the court's report acknowledged that the main reason for the high number of financial shortcomings in the area of cohesion and regional development policy is that the legal framework is too complex and complex. i encourage the court to further intensify its cooperation with your counterparts in the member states. finally, i would like to say that we need to pay more attention to the problem of education and to better inform the beneficiaries of eu policies and the institutions implementing and managing the individual programmes. finally, i believe that the commission should make efforts, above all, to simplify financial regulations while maintaining the basic control mechanisms to prevent abuse. however, the beneficiaries of the various european funds are very often confronted with a tangle of rules which are not entirely clear and which make it virtually impossible to settle such claims to the full satisfaction of the court. this needs to change, and i stress this: simplify, inform, but also control.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs for raising these questions. you raised so many big and fundamental questions which definitely need to be discussed in the coming months. this issue is definitely intensive, interesting, exciting and very future-oriented. i will first of all give an overview concerning this concrete question. first of all: the google books project. in essence, it is an initiative aimed at providing a tool to find, search and buy books for a wide audience of users. for rights holders, it may represent an additional channel of trade and so an additional source of revenue. let me add that in europe, the google books project is deployed in collaboration with libraries and concerns only public domain books. in-copyright books are only included in the project by way of the google partner programme addressed to publishers willing to conclude agreements with google. the google books class action settlement concerns the google books project in the united states and aims to conclude a litigation procedure which has been going on for over four years. if approved, it will provide an additional source of revenue for rights holders but also, and most importantly, make the hitherto unavailable out-of-print and orphan works available for online search and access to us users. moreover, its financial incentives may bring rights holders of orphan works out of the shadows. now, when it comes to the google book search project, the commission sees the google initiative as a demonstration that new business models are evolving to provide almost instant access to vast numbers of works to an increasing number of consumers. because the european commission favours the digitisation of books in european libraries and beyond, and because digitisation of books is a task of herculean proportions, where private sector support is needed, the commission favours initiatives such as google’s book search project as long as they respect intellectual property rights and do not lead to the distortion of competition. when it comes to the google books settlement, the commission has been actively engaged in consultations with european publishers and with google. in september 2009, the commission organised a public hearing bringing together european stakeholders and the settlement parties to exchange views and seek clarification on the various elements of the agreement. but meanwhile, important changes have occurred. due to numerous objections raised about the initial settlement by google’s competitors, foreign governments (france and germany) and the us department of justice, the terms of the settlement were revised and these revisions were submitted to the us court on 13 november 2009. first, the revised settlement has been significantly narrowed in scope. now, only books either registered with the us copyright office or published in the united kingdom, australia or canada by 5 january 2009 are covered by the settlement. all other books are outside the scope of the settlement. consequently, only united states, united kingdom, australian and canadian authors and publishers will, in future, be represented on the board of the books rights registry, the body that administers the terms of the settlement. secondly, publishers from countries other than the united states, the united kingdom, australia and canada will now have to negotiate individually to become part of google books services in the united states. the new version of the settlement gives rise to two remarks. first, being outside the settlement is not always an advantage. when you are out, you can no longer control what google does with the copies they have scanned up to now. second, publishers from eu member states – apart from the united kingdom – will now no longer participate in a major transformation of the book market. the google books project in the united states will receive a major thrust forward, with no european publishers any longer a part of it. even though services negotiated under this settlement will only be available to united states users, this absence could be detrimental to cultural diversity. in this regard, the commission has been calling, and will repeatedly call, on member states: firstly, to intensify their digitisation policies; secondly, to explore the possibilities for public-private partnerships for digitisation; and, thirdly, to ensure that all digitised material becomes available through europeana. if member states do that, the google books settlement may turn out to be the catalyst, not a threat, for europe’s initiatives in the area of access to digitised culture. this brings me to your second question. the debate on the google books settlement has shown that europe cannot afford to be left behind on the digital frontier. europe has to act swiftly. to this end, the commission is fully committed to working on a copyright framework that will facilitate large-scale digitisation of european library collections. we believe that copyright rules have to be flexible enough in order not to overly complicate the creation of online libraries.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank you for that statement and the question from the legal affairs committee, mrs niebler's comments, the commissioner's reply. these are extremely important matters, including for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the process of digitising books offers us enormous new opportunities, but it must serve - and let us remember this - the interests of the publishing market and the readers, that is, the interests of businesses and consumers in europe. this previous version of the google deal threatened to monopolize the entire literary heritage by one private company, and now that danger is not entirely far away. after all, google has scanned millions of copyrighted titles from all over the world. so far, he's been using these scans illegally, using only the american fair use formula, without asking the authors or publishers for permission. the new agreement continues to flout the basic principle of the berne convention, which states that the copyright holder should be asked for permission before using his work, not just given the opportunity to sign off, i.e. bearing the responsibility, effort and cost. and the agreement covers books from all over the world published in english in countries that are covered by the agreement. google uses out of print and orphan works to scan books. both of these categories are very loosely defined. after all, the authors of orphan works can often be found if they are searched carefully. and out of print is very often a book that the author has abandoned or the publisher has abandoned with full knowledge. is there a danger that google could take away publishers' freedom of publishing policy and authors' potential profits? and the consumer. the book industry could be weakened by google's projects in the long run if rights holders don't get the royalties they're due. publishers, in order to survive in a competitive market, will stop producing valuable, peer-reviewed, expensive books. for the consumer, this means the de facto replacement of high-quality publications by cheap, unverified, unambitious works, and ubiquitous advertising. so i expect the european commission to develop a policy that will allow the further development of digitisation, but at the same time will not negatively affect the development of creativity, the interests of the market and readers in europe.
madam president! the potential benefits and opportunities that the google project offers to consumers, researchers, most publishers and authors for the preservation of cultural heritage are largely beyond dispute. but we cannot ignore the legal consequences, and that is what i would like to focus on as a representative of the legal affairs committee. first of all, the conditions to be met are obvious. it's about respecting copyright and creating a proper system of royalties for authors. unfortunately, google's project is based on the anglo-saxon legal system and north american market realities, which are absolutely inappropriate for the european union's order. so google's activities in our territory are facing legal obstacles, but also ethical obstacles. google assumes that a copyright owner who does not wish to be covered by the settlement is obliged to notify the fact. this is clearly against our law, which requires that you have to get permission from the copyright owner and pay the copyright fee to scan and share a book. another issue is so-called orphan books, i.e. books whose copyright owners have not been identified. in most member states, collecting societies represent the interests of known right holders as well as those not yet identified, inter alia, by securing the proceeds of sales for a certain period in case the right holders are located in the future. i would also like to stress the need to adapt european copyright law to the challenges of the digital age, while fully sharing the view of commissioners reding and mccreevy, and also the words of commissioner kallasa today, that the digitisation of copyrighted works must fully respect the principle of copyright, fair remuneration for authors who can benefit most from the access of the wider european public to their works. and that opportunity, of course, we cannot afford to lose in europe.
madam president! the possibilities of the internet have inspired google to bring out-of-print, forgotten, dust-covered publications back to life in cyberspace. the idea of a modern replica of the famous library of alexandria, however, led to a copyright dispute. the agreement reached two weeks ago has already satisfied the american society of composers and authors and the association of american publishers and some of their european counterparts. the agreement provides for the scanning and sharing of items issued in four countries: the united states, the united kingdom, australia and canada, for a fee. users in these countries will be able to read 20% of the e-book for free (the cost will be covered by the advertiser), while the other 80% will be paid for out of their own pocket. from the point of view of the author and the publisher, this means two benefits. first, a one-time fee from google for the ability to scan a book between 60 and 300 dollars, and second, 63% of the revenue generated by an e-book on google books. in other words, the author makes money by making even one page of his book available online. few people realize that a non-british european google books user, such as a belgian or polish internet user, will not have access to even 20% of the e-books. the service will be available mainly in english, and any european publisher or author wishing to join the programme will have to contact google on their own. europeans will only have free access to the least attractive category of books public goods for which copyright has long since expired, such as the french national library, which has not lent books for 200 years. this will not result in a complete electronic library of european titles. despite some concerns about google's project, such as its monopoly on the production and distribution of e-books and the need to give up part of its revenues from fees and advertising, i believe that the union is doomed to inefficiency without a uniform copyright solution. the legal confusion surrounding google has demonstrated the consequences of the lack of a uniform copyright law in the union, as well as the inability to provide a coherent response to the google books format initiatives. it is clear to the naked eye that the harmonisation of copyright law in the european union has become an urgent necessity.
madam president! first, digitalisation is a huge opportunity to bring cultural heritage, european and global, to as many europeans as possible. it is perfectly in line with the new lisbon strategy. however, it seems that the whole issue of orphan works requires uniformity in the first place, which is why european solutions for the management of the revenue from orphan works should be unified in the first place. member states have different solutions here. secondly, the issue of unrevised works requires special supervision. well, out of print should be standardized in my opinion. there can be no situation where there is no strict regulation of unrepeated works. third, we cannot accept in the european legal system an opt-out method that gives google the ability to digitize collections without the author's consent. i think we should be looking at a broader eu approach in this area. and i think that if we want to compete with google in this positive sense of the word, or if we want to cooperate, we should certainly accelerate the european union and above all, we should accelerate the member states in this area.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is doing its utmost to develop the digital field in our society. it seems to me that google – and particularly its books project – has appeared as a great integrating factor for the european union, because, as you know very well, – and this is in all papers – copyright so far has been explicitly in the hands of member states and national legislation. now we need some kind of common approach, for which the commission is very happy to provide proposals. the next commission will definitely take all these issues very seriously and this will be a high priority. we agree that the books need to go online and fast. they will go anyway, whether we want it or not. the most important thing is that authors need to be paid for online books. we are planning a framework directive on these issues – including collective societies, which need to be transparent and accountable to their members. the framework directive will appear somewhere between autumn 2010 and spring 2011. we should not fall behind, and we are proposing simple eu rules on orphan book works and also books which are out of print. the eu proposal will ensure that books are only digitised with prior permission, and there will also be a serious search for orphan works. let us continue this discussion. once again we would thank the committee on legal affairs, and the honourable members mrs niebler and mr lehne, for their initiative in initiating this interesting debate.
in writing. the new google books service offered by google has been the subject of much controversy recently. the project involves making a huge number of scanned books available free of charge, with 4 million books by european authors among the works scanned. this raises questions about the limits of freedom on the internet and the challenges facing policy-makers in the rapidly developing information society. as the european commission rightly points out, the digitisation of copyright-protected works must fully respect the principle of copyright and fairly remunerate the authors who can benefit most from the access of the general european public to their works. at the same time, however, the commission is questioning the adequacy of the european copyright system to the challenges of the digital age: will the current set of rules allow european consumers to access books in digital form? does it guarantee a reward for the authors? the 'google books' project enables a much larger number of readers to access books than would be possible in a traditional library. however, the free distribution of books online is subject to restrictions, as is the sharing of music. the law has not kept pace with the development of digital communications, and it is therefore necessary to create a new legal framework to regulate the changing reality. it is also necessary to find a balance between the benefits of projects such as google books and the authors' right to remuneration.
mr. chairman, please! i abstained on this resolution, even though the matter is important, very important indeed. but i see no reason to confuse the issue of violence against women with reproductive choice. yesterday, during the debate on this subject, some speakers were talking nonsense. ms. senysyn mp accused the catholic church of oppressing women. it's the most absurd thing you could possibly think of. in poland, there are no honour killings, no widespread practice of female circumcision, no selective abortions, no temporary marriages, no stoning for actual or alleged adultery. women are not discriminated against in any way by law, and any violence against women is universally condemned, both by the public and by the catholic church. fortunately, such extreme language was not in the resolution, so i only abstained.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to stress that the issue of violence against women is a very serious one and i welcome the fact that the european parliament has taken up this issue. the problem of the most aggressive and violent crimes against women with a sexual background, which are committed and not always met with an adequate response by the justice system in some european countries, deserves particular attention. the penalties often imposed by the courts in such cases are extremely lenient, which means that women are not motivated in some cases to report such drastic events that have affected them to law enforcement authorities. this leads to a dark crime number. therefore, greater attention should be paid to the need to ensure that, in the case of the most serious and most serious crimes of sexual violence against women, the case law is uniform, so that it gives a sense of security and also a sense of justice, moral satisfaction to women who have been affected in such a cruel way. i wanted to emphasize that i could not vote for the final text of the resolution because of the ideological and radical views on abortion which are contrary to christian values.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to make a statement to the vote on the issue of tobacco control, if possible; a short statement.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for letting me speak. i support the european union's efforts to reduce tobacco consumption, but i do not think that this action should be limited to support for tobacco producers. because tobacco production is not related to tobacco consumption. if we reduce production or eliminate or withdraw aid from tobacco farms, consumption will continue to be from imported tobacco. fighting tobacco companies is not the way to reduce his smoking. it's a bit like trying to limit the consumption of beer by young people, starting with trying to limit the consumption of beer by fighting against hop producers. that is why i voted in favour of the position that tobacco production does not affect tobacco consumption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european year of volunteering 2011. in the member states of the european union, we need to give more weight to the issue of volunteering and plan policy measures to support the work of volunteers. the amendments proposed by the european parliament bring a number of important changes to the commission proposal which should be taken into account by the council. the planned budget for the 2011 european year of volunteering, €6 million, is insufficient (for comparison, the budget for the european year against poverty and social exclusion is almost three times higher). volunteering is a non-profit and free activity, but that doesn't mean it doesn't generate any costs. volunteering needs financial and political support from all stakeholders: ngos, governments, government administrations, local authorities and business. political commitment should take the form of friendly policies to support its development and infrastructure. this case is particularly important for poland, which will hold the eu presidency in 2011. i call on the polish government to follow the example of the european parliament and increase the funding for the european year of volunteering. i fully support the proposal to allocate funds to the creation of an interactive and publicly accessible database of volunteers and volunteer organisations that would also be operational after 2011.
in writing. − 2011 will be the european year of volunteering to celebrate and highlight volunteers and their contribution to society. volunteering takes many forms across europe, but wherever it takes place, it is characterised by a selfless desire to help others, a willingness to work for the environment and to ensure that every citizen can live a life of dignity. it is worth emphasising that volunteering has an undeniable positive impact on the development of a european identity, which is rooted in these values and is a good basis for understanding between citizens of different social groups, countries and the european community as a whole. volunteering is also important for integration and social policy and education. i would also like to point out that it is also of great importance for intercultural and intergenerational dialogue and contributes to the development of social responsibility. volunteering also has an economic value that should not be overlooked. while it is free and not for profit, it does not mean that it does not involve any financial expenditure. for this reason, it is important that volunteering receives support from the european community. volunteering requires a friendly policy that supports its development and infrastructure. i believe that promoting the reward and recognition of voluntary activities by supporting certain measures will be a motivation for individuals, businesses and organisations.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the policies of the current nicaraguan president, daniel ortega, are proof of the validity of the old communist saying: "once we have power, we never give it up". in the 1980s, however, the sandinistas failed to maintain an armed dictatorship and, forced by international opinion, had to accept democratic rules of the game. in 2006, ortega was elected president. the sandinistas are back in power. from the very beginning, he began to introduce proven methods of intimidation and elimination under various pseudo-legal pretexts of any political competition. the sandinista apparatus began to duplicate the state apparatus, following the example of the cuban committees for the defense of the revolution. as early as december 2008, the european parliament drew attention to harassment attacks by state authorities, parties and individuals linked to the sandinistas against human rights organizations, their members, journalists, and media representatives. amnesty international has reported on the violence that has taken place since the local elections. attacks and beatings of journalists have increased. now, by manipulating the supreme court, ortega is trying to change the constitution to allow him to run for re-election. we can predict with high probability that the next step will be to announce himself president for life. after all, fidel castro is the model for the populists of managua or caracas, and there have never been free elections. i ask the european commission to draw the lessons from this situation and to check whether, in the event of a breach of international human rights standards, there is a need to revise the existing cooperation agreements with this country so that the provisions on the human rights clause do not turn out to be mere empty words.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. last saturday, tens of thousands of nicaraguans demonstrated against the policies of president daniel ortega at the urging of opposition politicians. a policy that is leading directly to the establishment of a dictatorship in nicaragua. i will remind you that on october 19th the supreme court decided to lift the ban on running for the next term of office of president ortega and it is not the fact that this ban was lifted that is outrageous, because such a ban does not exist in many european countries, but the way this decision was made. as we know, president ortega does not have a two-thirds majority in the parliament and therefore had to resort to violating the constitution to lift this ban. if we allow daniel ortega to run again in 2011, we may find ourselves in a situation where nicaragua is now a true dictatorship. i therefore ask the european commission to take this problem into account in the next negotiations on an association agreement between the european union and the countries of central america and to use all possible means to turn president ortega off the path.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and vietnam must also take into account respect for civil rights and freedoms. the information we are receiving indicates that the situation in vietnam is very worrying, especially with regard to the repression of internet users. the internet is a medium that is supposed to be a free exchange of information and opinions on any subject on a global scale. meanwhile, vietnamese laws on internet use penalize freedom of speech in areas considered sensitive, such as human rights and the promotion of democracy. the 2008 blog laws require that blogs be kept private and prohibit the dissemination of anti-government material and undermining national security. (the president asked the member to speak more slowly) bloggers who write about political issues are being held in prisons, as reported by foreign non-governmental organizations (ngos). the european union institutions cannot remain indifferent to the disturbing facts coming from vietnam and in addition to political action, legal action is also needed. i therefore call for a binding human rights clause to be included in the new agreement between the union and vietnam.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to stress once again the tragic situation of christians in laos and vietnam. in both countries, the entire state structure and apparatus of repression were directed at the destruction of christianity, the catholic church, and protestant communities. in laos, it is the implementation of the ruling communist party's program, which regards christianity as a religion representing western imperialism. in vietnam, there are actions that are against the formally existing law. repression comes in many forms: arrests, torture, dispossession, intimidation, and confinement in mental institutions. such practices must not go unchallenged by the european institutions. although many people in europe are fighting christianity with legal means, it is our duty, the duty of all of us, to counteract this barbarity that we see in some asian countries.
mr. chairman, please! in this parliament we have spoken about vietnam, particularly in the context of the religious persecution of buddhists - this was the case in the last parliament. today, we are again talking about the violation of religious law in both countries, this time against christians. unfortunately, this is a constant part of the political reality in these two countries. the european parliament, which is so sensitive to the violation of human rights, including the rights of minorities, must speak out on this issue. one more thing, i came here not only as a politician, but also as a blogger, quite well known in poland. as a blogger, i would like to protest against the persecution that our fellow netizens, bloggers in vietnam are facing. we have to defend them strongly.
mr. chairman, please! any action that aims to highlight the importance of human rights and their non-observance in certain parts of the world, in countries where fundamental human rights are violated, should be noted with satisfaction. but when we point out violations of these rights, we must pay particular attention to those situations in which the rights of people of different faiths, the right to freely express their faith, their commitment to religious freedom and to manifest their beliefs in different countries are violated. it is therefore worth mentioning all those cases where there are serious infringements in this respect. it is also worth remembering here in europe that we should always be an example of this place on the geographical map of the earth, which remains an example of great tradition, freedom, liberty and respect for other religions. so it is with some concern that we see something that is clearly not comparable to the facts that have been raised in this chamber, namely the line of the case law of the european court of human rights, which seems to be intruding into the sphere of freedom of religion and the traditions of individual countries, in this case the judgment in italy and the crosses. i think that this kind of ruling can also create a certain unpleasant atmosphere in the realm of certain symbols and accents that could be misinterpreted. in conclusion, every gesture, every action that raises the profile of human rights is important and we should speak out about it, especially in those countries where fundamental human rights are violated.
mr. chairman, please! the ppe group supports the motion for a resolution. i must admit that i was surprised by the suggestions from some colleagues from different groups that we should not be discussing today the further human rights violations and the widespread use of the death penalty in china. the argument for this would be the upcoming eu-china summit. you guys! we should not be tempted to apply double standards or to conspire to remain silent just because we are dealing with a country which is an important trading partner of the union. i believe that one of the fundamental tasks of the european parliament is to stand guard over human rights. and this is whether we're talking about a great power or whether we're talking about small countries like laos or vietnam. the people's republic of china is the country with the highest number of executions in the world. the country does not comply with the minimum internationally recognised legal standards, including the right to a defence and a fair trial. a few days ago, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for the courage to criticize communism, if it weren't for the courage to speak the truth, europe would look very different today.
mr. chairman, please! as a pole, i always feel an increased heartbeat when it comes to human rights in china. on june 4th, 1989, the poles regained their freedom by going to the first elections, in which we elected a non-communist prime minister. on the same day, june 4, 1989, the chinese regime used its tank traps to crush student protesters in tiananmen square. the free world has found a recipe for defeating soviet communism, but it has not found a recipe for defeating chinese communism. the economy always triumphs over values, over human rights. it was just last year that the world's powerful boasted that they would boycott the opening ceremony of the beijing olympics, and then all of them, in pursuit of their economic interests, stood in the front row of those parades, deaf to the cries of the beaten tibetans. i'm afraid the resolution we're introducing narrows the issue too much. of course, the use of the death penalty is a heinous crime, but there are still arrests. there's killing people in labor camps in china, there's caning, there's imprisonment, there's the suppression of free speech, there's censorship. all of this should be in this resolution as well. it's good that she's here, but the most important thing is that the value of human rights prevails over the economy. and that's what i wish for everyone.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 november 2009.
as i open the last session of the european parliament in 2009, i would like to begin by offering you, ladies and gentlemen, my warmest wishes for the upcoming christmas, hanukkah and the new year 2010. on behalf of all of us members of the european parliament, i would like to extend similar warm wishes to the administration, to all those who work directly with the european parliament and help us in our work. i would also like to mention the attack on the italian prime minister, silvio berlusconi, which deserves our unequivocal condemnation. political discourse cannot be conducted in this way. what happened yesterday should never have happened. we wish the prime minister a speedy release from the hospital and a full recovery. let me remind you of another anniversary that is very important to me personally. yesterday marked 28 years since the then communist authorities imposed martial law in poland. it resulted in the deaths of nearly 100 people, including nine miners shot during a strike at the wujek mine. many thousands of democratic opposition activists were also detained and even imprisoned. it was about breaking up and destroying the solidarity trade union. in this context, i would like to draw attention to how much europe has changed in the last two or three decades, but also how much we should strive for peace and human rights on our continent and everywhere in the world. i would also like to remind you that the sakharov prize for freedom of thought will be awarded on wednesday at 12 noon. this year's recipients are ludmila alekseyeva, sergey kowaliov and oleg orlov, representing the memorial association, which works to promote human rights in russia. we are a continent that has been through a very difficult 20th century and therefore we understand perfectly well the importance of human rights worldwide, especially on the european continent. that is why this event is of special significance to us.
i have expressed this solidarity on behalf of the whole european parliament.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 10 december. the following changes are proposed: monday unchangedtuesdayi received a request from the freedom and democracy group which proposed to include an oral question to the european commission on the protection of the principle of subsidiarity. it was a proposal that was submitted in writing to the bureau of parliament. i urge you to vote on this motion.
ladies and gentlemen! be careful! this item will be entered as the last item on the agenda for tuesday evening. the deadline for tabling draft resolutions is tuesday, december 15 at 10:00 a.m. and the deadline for tabling joint draft resolutions and amendments is wednesday, december 16 at 10:00 a.m. the vote will take place on thursday. so the point is tomorrow as the last, the draft resolutions on wednesday, the vote on thursday.
that's actually a good point. the motion was tabled with the resolution. wednesday unchanged thursday are there any comments for thursday?
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
i would like to make it clear that the first step in this matter is for the european council to take. i spoke to the european council last thursday and made it clear that it is extremely important for the european parliament that the european council take the first legal steps so that we can recognise the number of additional meps and from which countries they are to come to the european parliament. this must be done in accordance with the rule of law and now it is up to the council to do so. i have repeatedly called on the council to take appropriate action. the next steps, after the first council decision, will be up to parliament.
mr. chairman, please! at the last eu-russia summit, the two sides signed a memorandum on the principles of an early warning system on energy issues. the european commission hopes that this will help avoid a future energy crisis similar to the one at the beginning of the year. russia's dispute with ukraine over the supply and transit of blue fuel caused moscow to halt gas supplies for almost three weeks, effectively paralyzing several european countries. the coming winter, and the consequent increase in gas consumption, is forcing us to develop the rules that should govern the european energy market. the european union must understand that the disruption of gas supplies is not only a threat to the economy, but also to the foundations of european integration, which, strengthened by european solidarity, supports the free market. i also hope that the coming winter will not have to be a test of the validity of the declarations, explaining whether solidarity is an insignificant, empty word or a real guarantee of cooperation between the countries of the european union.
colleagues, we have come to the end of the one-minute speeches. i would like to explain that i have a lot of names on the list – at least twice as many as we have time for. today we had more time than usual, but you must remember that if someone spoke in the one-minute speeches last time, one month ago or two months ago, then they will not have as much chance of speaking again today. we must pay attention to those who have not spoken at all. i am sorry but those are just the rules. on the list i have the names of twice as many members as it is possible to take. i am very sorry that not everybody could take the floor.
i think there is always a reason to sit with us and to listen to the discussions. i do not think we should speak in such a way. today, almost everybody who did not speak during the last part-session was able to take the floor.
the next item is the commission's statement on the crisis in the non-dairy agricultural sectors.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! trade can be the basis for sustainable and equitable development. we can't eliminate poverty and hunger in the world without the market. those who think otherwise condemn the poor to eternal aid, eternal dependency, eternal uncertainty of the future. only the building of a true market economy can lift poor countries and their people out of the trap of modernised dependence. globalization can be a blessing, not a curse. the suspension of the wto's doha development round has hurt developing countries the most. it's all the more painful that it happened in a time of food, fuel, economic crisis. we should do everything possible to restore confidence in the multilateral trading system. without this problem solved, the poor, the excluded, the vulnerable will remain where they are. thank you very much. thank you.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the light of the debate, it is worth noting that the european commission's strategy does not mention employment in the maritime sector at all. for many years, the lack of an integrated maritime policy has been a systematic attempt to bring this industry into the european union, and it is worth remembering that this is a huge labour market. the marginalised shipbuilding industry, effectively eliminated in europe by the far eastern countries' dumping policy, has also found no support in the european commission. in my country, poland, the european commission's actions have led to the collapse of the shipbuilding industry, with several thousand people losing their jobs directly and an estimated 80,000 indirectly. but the industry will not disappear from the global economy. the pattern of the past years will be transferred to the far east at the expense of the european labour market. the lack of a strategy for returning ships to national flags is a huge risk. as a result, europe is losing huge amounts of revenue that will go to tax havens. another very important element of the european commission's policy is fisheries, which is often the only sector that stimulates the eu's non-industrialised areas. the commission is focusing on reducing the fleet without stopping the mass import of toxic waste from the far east into the european market. in times of crisis, the european commission's policy must create the basis for economic development, not just temporarily remedy the consequences of a wrong strategy.
madam president! hundreds of thousands of europeans have felt the effects of the economic crisis in the most painful way for them, losing their jobs. in every country in the european union, unemployment has risen, and this is the element of the crisis that most concerns our citizens. the necessary aid goes to the financial institutions. unfortunately, it is not reaching the people who are at risk of losing their jobs in time, and it is they who will feel the effects of the current crisis the longest. i therefore welcome the creation of a european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion. in particular, the link between this instrument and the general objective of promoting entrepreneurship is noteworthy. the funds allocated through this instrument will stimulate the creation of new companies. this is good news for our economy, because it is small and medium-sized enterprises that are the foundation of our economy. and they're the ones who are creating jobs. this instrument is perfectly in line with the concept of support for entrepreneurship presented in the small business charter. it is important that enterprises receive this support also at a later stage, and not only at the stage of their creation. the financial resources of this instrument will only benefit the beneficiaries and the economies if the companies created survive on the market. i also hope that entrepreneurship, and in particular the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises, will not be the subject of our debates only in times of crisis. we should take a holistic approach to entrepreneurship, because it is these companies that provide jobs for our citizens not only in times of crisis.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the paramount importance of microcredit in these times of crisis for employment. it enables the unemployed to make a fresh start through risk-sharing and financing instruments, making entrepreneurship accessible. in the face of the financial crisis and the considerable drop in the number of loans granted, i support the european commission's proposal to establish a microfinance facility for the most vulnerable, particularly women, young people and the unemployed. i would like to give my support to my colleagues in the epp group who, together with the other groups - socialists, liberals and conservatives - have drawn up compromise amendments to introduce this microfinance facility as soon as possible, by 2010. and i call on the council of ministers to find, in the present crisis situation, a rapid solution to combat unemployment and to provide a lasting solution to the financing of this microcredit.
madam president! progress is an important initiative to help member states implement employment and social objectives effectively. last week i consulted the members of the committee assisting the commission in the implementation of the progress programme. my conclusions are as follows: firstly, the advertising campaign, which should bring the scope of the programme closer to potential beneficiaries, is conducted in a low-visibility manner; secondly, most information on tenders and competitions is available in only three languages: english, german and french. this constitutes a functional barrier for entities that do not speak any of these languages. i think it would be appropriate to reconsider the premise of the promotional campaign. the visibility and awareness of progress at community level should be increased as soon as possible.
the issue of toy safety is of great interest, especially now in the run-up to christmas, when we are wondering what toys to buy for our youngest. in the last term, we came up with what i think is a very good solution to make the toys our children play with safer. unfortunately, we have to wait for the effects of these regulations. but i believe they will produce tangible results. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission for organising the 'toys road show'. this is a very important initiative to help businesses prepare for the changes brought about by the directive. ladies and gentlemen! but i'm concerned about something else. in the united states, the consumer product safety commission decided in late november to recall more than a million baby cots. another million will be withdrawn from the canadian market. a crib is an object of daily use with which children may be in contact more than with toys. given the scale of this operation, i'd appreciate it if the commissioner would address this issue. can we be sure that the cots on the european market are safe?
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i am pleased to see the broad consensus that the debate has shown. let me make a preliminary remark: we are dealing with a scientific institute, the federal institute for risk assessment, which has been striking me for some time by its alarmist reports to the public, but without informing the commission or other european institutions of these findings. you can judge for yourself. the only thing i know about it is that the further financing of this institute from the german federal budget is under discussion. this may explain why the institute does a lot of publicity work, but apparently does not place much importance on the fact that its findings can be adequately tested by us. however, i think i have been misunderstood: even if we only read about it in the press, we take it as a sign of possible new scientific knowledge, and i have already passed it on to the scientific committee. i do not need the invitation that has been addressed to me here. the moment i get the hint that there might be new scientific knowledge about the safety of toys and the limits we have, that's passed on to the scientific committee. but i have to say again, you cannot ask me, and i cannot ask you, to decide a methodological dispute between scientists. you can't do that! i can't do this, you can't do this. all i can do is say, this question of the methodology for measuring possible limit values has been discussed extensively in this parliament, in the council and in the commission. and the view of this german institute has not been shared by any other scientific institute in europe, by any other! if you think i was obliged to follow the opinion of one institution and not the opinion of all the others, then you can tell me that and then you can blame me for it. i can't take that responsibility. neither can any of you. but i say again, if any new knowledge emerges, the process will be set in motion. unfortunately, mrs weisgerber, you said it would have to go faster, but it can't. we are dealing with very complicated scientific questions here. tests are necessary. there are - you may not know this - extensive animal studies, for example, that are needed to verify such statements. you can't force science to create knowledge in a certain time frame. i'm sorry, but that's not possible. so i'm just going to have to ask you to accept that i'm telling you that the scientific committee has told us that they can deliver substantiated results by the middle of next year. he will. on the basis of these results, the commission will make new proposals without delay if it should turn out that there are indeed new findings. just so we're clear, i'm not going to... mr creutzmann, the principle is that we use the least possible risk. i don't need the federal institute for risk assessment to teach me that. that is why the demands you derived from it have been met. mrs. rühle, you say i should have gone to the press sooner. you'll be surprised to hear that i did. and just as i do not believe that what i have said here in parliament tonight will be taken up by the european media, especially the german media, so my factual and, as i found it, calm explanation of what is important has unfortunately not been taken up by the german media. but i have made the necessary explanation and clarified the facts. i am happy to make the text available to you. mrs. davidson, we have the strictest legislation in the world. we can be proud of that. the commission is the only body in the world which can be expected to take the lead in ensuring that toys are as safe as possible. i can only agree with mrs schaldemose that the responsibility of the member states for market surveillance must not be called into question. i fully agree with you that the question of implementation will be crucial here. we have made the necessary preparations here as well. the last question from mrs hedh, a very important one: as regards the standards for various areas, you have given two examples, for example, noise sources. the european standardisation organisations have been given the relevant contracts. but standards are no different than other scientific papers. you cannot have them available within a week, a month or a few months. it takes time. but all these standards we have talked about are in the works and will be in place in time and will also allow us to establish a precise comparability between products and to strengthen market surveillance. the last point i want to make is that the car seats that have been mentioned here and which have caused safety problems in america are not toys. they are therefore not covered by the toy directive but by the general product safety directive. we don't have to hide from the americans here. the system we have in europe in terms of general product safety has been improving in recent years. if unsafe products appear on the european market, we can now assume with some certainty that all the other member states and the commission will indeed be informed and that appropriate action will be taken.
in writing. in today's debate, i would like to draw attention to the need to improve the functioning of the european union consumer injury register, which provides, among other things, for the collection of information on deaths and injuries resulting from the use of various products intended for children. this register should be an important element in the functioning of the system of consumer protection, including that of the youngest and most vulnerable consumers. unfortunately, according to the polish expert of the technical committee of the pcn on products for young children and safety of toys, the rapid exchange of information between member states and the european commission on products posing a risk and the measures taken in a given country to exclude or restrict their placing on the market still does not function satisfactorily. i'm asking for a thorough investigation.
i wanted to read the important information first. on 2 december i received a communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the consequences of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon for the ongoing interinstitutional decision-making procedures. under the communication, parliament as such is recognised as the competent institution for all the proposals contained in the communication for which the treaty of lisbon recognises parliament's competence. parliament also notes that the european commission is withdrawing certain proposals on the same grounds. for other legislative proposals pending on 1 december 2009, the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the chair shall ask the relevant parliamentary committees of that term, in accordance with the minutes, to examine the legal bases and procedural changes proposed by the european commission, as well as any other changes that need to be made in the light of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, and to decide whether they intend to confirm positions already adopted as a result of the consultation as a first reading of the ordinary legislative procedure or the approval procedure. parliament reserves the right, of course, to ask the european commission to submit new proposals in any event. for proposals on which parliament has not been consulted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is for the european commission to submit new proposals under the ordinary legislative procedure or the appropriate procedure. it was a communication on our legislative activities in the near future a communication on the interaction between the european commission and the european parliament in the legislative process. as you know, we are in a transitional period - we are moving from the treaty of nice to the treaty of lisbon, and at the same time we have a new term of office for the european parliament. we don't have a commission approved yet. all this requires a fairly laborious and legal interaction between the commission and parliament, and this is what this communication is about.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report (a7-0083/2009) by mr lászló surjána and mr vladimíra maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 following the amendments made by the council (all sections) (11902/2009 - c7-0127/2009 - 2009/2002 (bud)) and the letters of amendment no 1/2010 (sec2009) 1133 - 14272/2009 - c7-015/2009), 2/2010 (sec2009) 1462/2009 - 16328/2009 - c7-0292/2009 and 3/2010 (sec2009) 16735/2009 - c7-0304/2009 to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (a7-0083/2009) by mr lászló surjána and mr vladimíra maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 following the amendments made by the council (all sections) (11902/2009 - c7-0127/2009 - c7-0128/2009 - c7-01800/2009), by mr juduchaud (aud) on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 (com (2009) 17-0280 final), by mr c7-0282-080/2009 (a) and by mr c7-02727822 (a) on the draft budgetary adjustment of the european parliament and the european commission (audit committee on budgetary controls of the management of the financial year (audit procedure) (a7-02-022009) (com (2009) 0288-0278-027bud)
mr president, i should like to make four points. firstly let me emphasise the need to use our 2010 budget, and in particular the european cohesion policy financial instruments, with the utmost expediency in order to stimulate economic activity in all of the union’s regions and cities and create the leverage necessary to revitalise member states’ economies. cohesion policy is providing a strong and necessary bridge between recovery from the crisis and long-term structural transformation of the european economy. secondly, it is for this reason that the committee for regional development has encouraged the commission and member states not only to use the financial resources available to invest in what are cohesion policy 2007-2013 priorities – climate change, knowledge and innovation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, broadband, sustainable urban transport and renewal of skills – but also to promote the leverage function of the cohesion policy; which is to efficiently use all the financial engineering tools which the cohesion policy has created in collaboration with the european investment bank in order to assist small and medium-sized companies not only to survive this difficult period but first of all to go the distance, to adapt to the changing face of the global economy which is transforming itself and to rise up to the challenge – and the opportunity – of climate change. thirdly, let me inform members that all payment applications for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund from the 2009 budget, totalling eur 25.5 billion, have been fully used, thus contributing to recovery, structural change, growth, employment and to climate-change energy efficiency. lastly, in this context, i regret the cuts in support for candidate countries, the ipa regional development and human resources instrument, which addresses areas such as unemployment, social exclusion and education investment – a cut of eur 7 million, which is 0.5% of the available operational credits that go to administration – without regard to the need of ensuring good local administration and without regard to the basic principles of good financial management which is so dear to this house.
mr. chairman, please! it is also worth recalling, during the budget debate, that the law is a fundamental element in the life of societies and that its coherence is what unites our continent. the court of justice of the european communities plays a key role in this respect and the legal affairs committee has therefore tabled a number of amendments aimed at restoring the appropriations provided for in the preliminary draft budget to cover only the most basic needs of the court. one of the most pressing issues is the question of increasing the budget for 2010 for translation in the form of questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which is the basic instrument for national courts to adapt their national case-law to european law. insufficient ets funds to increase the human resources of translation services are the cause of delays in court proceedings. the additional resources granted to the court will help to increase the efficiency of its work in this field and to reduce the delays in judicial proceedings in the member states. the council's reduction concerns already very limited strategic it projects proposed by the court for 2010 to improve the quality of services while reducing the number of people employed. it is necessary to reinstate the appropriations provided for in the joint draft budget. information technology is a key area for meeting the new challenges of our time, generating long-term savings and offering citizens better services. i would also like to stress the need to support the draft community reference framework. in february 2009, a group of researchers presented the final version of an abridged edition of the draft community reference framework that the european institutions will be able to use as a basis for the creation of european contract law. at this stage, it is of the utmost importance that the community framework is made available in as many official languages as possible in order to facilitate an in-depth discussion on the future of european contract law by political, legal and other stakeholders. i am glad that the european parliament will correct these mistakes of the council and allow the court to function better.
ladies and gentlemen! the 2010 budget is a difficult compromise. on the one hand, it's supposed to help mitigate the economic crisis, and at the same time, we're funding climate change, mainly to reduce co2 emissions. that's good, but in the short term, it's a drag on development, which we're still spending too little on. the increase in research and innovation spending is justified. it improves our competitiveness. it seems that we still under-spend on education, including the erasmus exchange programme. it is good that the milk programme has been funded - albeit too little - because the past year has been difficult for european farmers. if we want to revive the economy, reduce unemployment and social exclusion, we need to increase the amount of money available for micro-credit. it is important for development to finance broadband in rural areas, but as i said, this budget is a compromise.
in writing. − on 10 november 2009, the european commission published a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european microfinance facility. it is consistent with the commission's 'implementing a european recovery plan' and with the council's priorities of maintaining employment, creating jobs and promoting mobility, upskilling and adapting to labour market needs and increasing access to employment. this microfinance facility is intended to facilitate access to financial services for the unemployed and for groups of entrepreneurs in difficulty. these are those groups of people who do not have the creditworthiness of commercial banks and would like to start their own business. the introduction of such a support instrument from union funds is particularly important in the context of the current decline in the level of lending and the decline in the value of loans granted. the situation in the credit sector shows that the financial and economic crisis is turning into an employment and social crisis. the empl report contains substantial amendments to the european commission's proposal, including an objection to the transfer of the necessary funds to the european microfinance instrument from the progress programme. the rapporteur requests that a separate budget line be created for this purpose and that the amount of the instrument be increased by an additional eur 50 million over the next four years. in view of the above, i support this report.
in writing. − progress was created to help achieve the european union's employment, social affairs and equal opportunities objectives set out in the social agenda. the budgetary resources of this programme are intended to boost the process of transformation and modernisation in five areas, such as employment, social inclusion and social protection, working conditions, combating discrimination and gender equality. the financial and economic crisis is now turning into a social and employment crisis. the unemployed and disadvantaged groups need active support and guidance if they are to become self-employed. it is the progress programme that targets the most vulnerable groups and therefore i believe that the member states and the european union are responsible for its effective implementation. the union should also make every effort to increase targeted financial support for new individual entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs in the form of monitoring, training, including practical training, and skills development. progress is designed to promote micro-enterprise and the social economy. in the current economic and financial environment, which is characterised by a reduced supply of credit, progress will extend the scope of targeted financial assistance to new entrepreneurs. the main responsibility for employment and social policy lies with the member states, and the european union should be the initiator of these changes. real employment opportunities for all must be created, and the quality and productivity of work must be improved.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission. questions to be asked
president of the commission. − as president of the commission i will be responsible for that, in coordination with my colleagues in the commission, because this will be the central task for the next commission, as was presented in my political guidelines. regarding the timing, we hope to have a formal communication ready in time for the spring council, but i feel it would be better only to have the formal conclusions at the june council. that will be my proposal to the european council, so that we can have – and i very much wish for this – full participation and ownership for parliament of the strategy. at european council level there has also been a very interesting pre-discussion about the economy, and in fact i have encouraged the european council to take full ownership on the council side as well, and to reinforce the mechanisms of governance. as you know, five years ago, when we re-launched the lisbon strategy, there was resistance from some member states to follow certain recommendations of the kok report. this time the conditions exist for having a reinforced system of governance in this strategy.
president of the commission. − first of all, i think that the fact that this parliament voted again for a mandate for myself is a signal that there is support for the action we have been taking. having said that, there are issues that we have to change and to improve. the situation today is different. there is a much greater sense of social urgency than before. as i have said very often, the most important problem we face in europe today – which most likely we are going to face for some time yet – is unemployment. we have to find not only new sources of growth, but also to look at what was wrong with the previous model of growth. it was obvious that the previous model of growth was dilapidated. although it created some artificial bubbles – not only in the financial sector but also in other sectors – it was not sustainable, including from an energy and climate point of view. that is the focus of my strategy – the strategy i have put forward to this parliament and which i hope to develop with the next commission in, of course, very close association with this parliament.
president of the commission. − it is clearly stated in the lisbon treaty that the internal organisation of the college and the commission services is a responsibility of the commission. i am always ready to listen to your suggestions and to your comments. in fact, some of the innovations were as a result of some debates with your group and other groups. i count on your support for the full respect of the competences of the commission, as i will always respect the competences of parliament. i am always open to listening to your suggestions but i think we should concentrate more on matters of policy, of substance. regarding the organisation of the commission, i believe that after five years of everyday work in the commission i am pretty well informed about the best ways of allocating resources inside the commission.
president of the commission. − i was very reassured by yesterday’s commitment by prime minister papandreou to cut public deficits and reduce the government’s debt through permanent expenditure cuts and revenue increases. we believe the current budget for 2010 that is now being discussed in the greek parliament and prime minister papandreou’s statements are steps in the right direction. i have been following the situation very closely with this government and with the previous government, namely the question of public finances. we were also very impressed by the candid presentation made by the prime minister of greece in the last european council. he is fully aware of the problem and he has shown us his determination to address it. greece will submit to the commission in the course of january an updated stability programme, as foreseen in the stability and growth pact. i trust that this programme will include concrete measures to strengthen fiscal adjustment in 2010 and to ensure lasting consolidation of public finances. naturally the commission will continue to monitor very closely the macroeconomic and fiscal situation and the implementation of the measures in greece. having said this, i do not consider it appropriate at this stage to elaborate on possible scenarios. we believe that greece is now taking appropriate measures and that we should support greece in the enforcement of those measures.
president of the commission. − we are not at this stage contemplating the kind of measures suggested. i personally believe it is not very appropriate to link this kind of proposal to the specific situation in greece today; in fact it could send the wrong signal. let us be honest about it. greece and the countries of the euro area have a specific obligation when it comes to implementing the conditions of the stability and growth pact. it is very important for them, and above all for their own economy, but it is also important for others. i believe that raising this issue at this moment and suggesting that there could be a solution outside greece’s own efforts is not the best way to help our greek friends to implement, with determination, the measures announced by prime minister papandreou.
president of the commission. − two different questions: one regarding the portfolios on justice and security, the other on climate. regarding justice and security, i have forwarded the suggestion made by many of you in this parliament to have a specific portfolio more centred on fundamental rights. so, commissioner reding, if she meets with your approval, will be commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship. there will also be a commissioner for home affairs, which is basically what happens in most, if not all, member states in europe – there is a minister for the interior and a minister for justice. i believe that it is much more efficient so that they can work with their colleagues in the respective councils. it will also be much better in terms of the amount of work because, as you know, we have just approved the stockholm programme. this is a very ambitious programme in which this parliament has a lot of important competences now, so it is fully justified to have two different commissioners. it is not because of the role of the president in this case. it has nothing to do with the role of the president of the commission. it has to do with the need to have some kind of division of labour in such an important area. i would like the commissioner for fundamental rights to have security concerns in her hands, and i would like the commissioner for security to do the job whilst respecting fundamental rights and the spirit of liberties in the european union.
president of the commission. − i am happy to see that you are happy with the creation of the commissioner for climate change. she will in fact have a lot to do because, as we are now seeing, copenhagen will not be the end of the road. there will be a lot to do after copenhagen. her main tasks will be to mainstream climate change in all sectors of the commission – not only the ones you have mentioned, but many others. there is almost no policy in the european union that does not have some impact on climate action: from agriculture to research, from enterprise and industry to maritime affairs. that is the task. she will have a dedicated dg for climate change. i want the commissioner for climate change to have some instruments to pursue her policy, but of course she has to do this in cooperation with other commissioners – namely the commissioner for environment, the commissioner for energy and others – because this is such an important policy that also has a very important external dimension.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to ask you about your assessment of the eu-ukraine summit which took place less than two weeks ago. i would like to raise two points. while i was in kiev, i learned that the european side had refused to include in the final declaration the wording on the european identity of ukraine. i don't hide that i am very surprised because i think that the question of ukraine's european identity should not be a matter of dispute. secondly, i learned in kiev that our european delegation refused to lay a wreath at the monument to the victims of the ukrainian famine, which is the diplomatic custom of all visitors to ukraine, and i do not hide the fact that these two facts surprise me very much.
president of the commission. − if there is an overall global tax for financial transactions, we should support it. in fact i have personally supported this in discussions in the european council. the european council has asked the commission to put forward some ideas on that, and we are preparing it. also linked to the issue of innovative financing, i personally believe that, if we want to meet our obligations regarding the fight against climate change, it cannot be only with the money from our budgets. it is obvious that our budgets are under such pressure that our national budgets alone over the next few years cannot provide the resources for fighting climate change. we have to think of innovative ways of financing. a global financial transaction tax seems to me a very good idea, and we are working on that area in order to put forward proposals at an appropriate time. i hope the new commission will put forward some proposals on this area.
president of the commission. − regarding the insinuation you are making, i really cannot comment. if i were the person involved, i would take the matter to the courts. concerning the issue at stake, you said that the british government said this was the position of the european union. i do not know anything about that statement, but let me tell you that, if there is one government that has been pushing the european union for ambitious targets in the fight against climate change, it is precisely the government of your country, whether you like it or not. in fact, the common agenda today in the european union is to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases. this does have some consequences in terms of the adaptation of our industry. we want industry to be kept in europe, but we want another kind of industry, which is less energy-consuming and friendlier to the environment.
president of the commission. − i will answer by saying ‘no’.
colleagues, the blue-card procedure is not applicable now because these are discussions between two people. it is very difficult for the blue card to be used for an additional question now as i do not know which of the two people it is intended for. i am sorry about that. it will, of course, be applicable during other debates.
president of the commission. − it was not a question so i do not have to answer but, since i have the opportunity, i will just say the following. the principle of loyalty between the different institutions is very important. also, now that we have a new treaty, we need to respect the competences of each institution. i told you how important it is to have a special relationship between the commission and parliament, and i will work for that. this of course means respecting the competences of each institution in its own field according to the treaties.
president of the commission. − thank you for your question and for the intention behind your question. my intention is to propose to the member states to reinforce economic governance in europe. i think now we have an opportunity to do it. frankly, it has been refused several times before. you have probably read a recent interview given by one of my predecessors, mr delors, who said that his proposal of reinforced coordination on social matters failed in 1993. it was refused by the member states. it was interesting and i looked up what i said then as foreign minister of my country. i was one of those supporting a reinforced cooperation of the member states in that area. unfortunately it was not possible. when the lisbon strategy was being revised, we put forward a proposal based on the wim kok report, and it was refused by member states. after this crisis i think there is now much more awareness of the need to have real coordination in the response to the crisis. i am going to fight for that, but of course we need the support of the member states to achieve this. we need them, because some of those policies are made at national level and some are at community level. i am encouraged by the first exchange of views with the european council. in fact the new president of the council, president van rompuy, has already announced that he wants an informal exchange of views at the beginning of february. i hope that will be a way of having more commitment from the european council for a strengthened mechanism of governance of the european union 2020 strategy.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - thank you, mrs ries. this was one of the priorities of my commission, but also of the present commission and certainly of the next commission. small and mediumsized enterprises are the ones that create jobs. we have done the small business act precisely with the 'think small first' principle you speak of and we are committed to a programme of reducing administrative burdens, especially for small and mediumsized businesses. that is why we have placed the completion of the internal market at the heart of our priorities, because there is a potential and also an international dimension to be exploited because the truth is that our small and mediumsized enterprises still face many difficulties when they try to work with other markets. i believe that this is one of the priorities of the new strategy, the 2020 strategy. it is precisely a strategy which is more closely linked to the international dimension, because today this globalisation is having its effects, and it is only with an offensive, proactive stance that we can win this battle for competitiveness.
colleagues, i would like to provide an explanation in response to a very important question by mrs ries. we started to prepare the list of speakers at 15.00, when we started this item. i have about 30 people on the list, in the order you took your blue cards. of course, we can add other speakers to the list, but it will be impossible for them to speak during this item. if you wish, you can keep your cards for now, and ms durant will be the next speaker for one minute. we can try to add to the list the remaining members wishing to speak, but i can tell you very honestly that it is impossible to have so many speakers; i have about 30. we started to deal with the list at 15.00. if any other members would like to add their names, please keep to one minute.
president of the commission. − in the case of opel, as you know, the commission has maintained an important position, promoting the necessary meetings between the different countries involved and the companies concerned. regarding the issue of the automobile industry, there is a problem of over-capacity in europe and in the world. so the future is precisely as your question suggests, finding new ways and new technologies, namely the development of cleaner cars. we have been supporting this idea, not only in terms of ideas but in terms of funding. in fact the european investment bank, with our full support, has, as you know, created a special facility for this. this is one of the priorities for the next mandate: to develop a greener automobile industry in europe which is technologically more advanced. this is the way in which we can maintain a leading position in the automobile industry in the world.
thank you, colleague, but please do not put two questions during your one minute, because it is very difficult for president barroso to answer two questions in one minute. which question do you prefer – the first or the second? colleagues, this is very important.
president of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much for your understanding. i will try to choose the best question! the honest answer is the following: this is a consultation document; it is not yet a strategy, and i very much welcome your input. let me tell you my personal opinion. yes, we have to do more to fight poverty and social exclusion but for that we need the support of our member states. i can tell you that i have proposed concrete measures several times and have received a very loud ‘no’, with the argument that some member states view social matters as something for them, and not for europe. that is an interesting debate. let us see if we agree on this matter. i very much expect to have your support on this because, as you know, to fight social exclusion and poverty we also need some instruments at european level that complement the instruments at national level. i am telling you the position that i will be defending. i hope all the member states will be ready to support this view.
i'm not going to let you do this. the implementation of the lisbon strategy looks very bad. how do you intend to change the europe 2020 strategy document to achieve the objectives? do you envisage preparing something like a strategy implementation programme, a separate document for the commission for a five-year term, outlining the actions that need to be carried out? i think that would be good. we could monitor the implementation of this strategy and at the same time hold the commission accountable for what has been implemented. finally, i would like to say that i think the time allotted for public consultation, namely the deadline of 15 january, is too short. we should take our social partners a little more seriously. they're the ones who will be implementing the strategy and they should have more time to participate in these consultations.
president of the commission. − mr langen, i do not know exactly to what you are referring, but, if you are talking about emissions in europe, let us be honest about it: our emissions are roughly speaking 14% of global emissions and that trend is a downwards one, because there are big economies on the rise in terms of emissions. however, on an emissions per capita basis, we are still far above those economies and let us be fair about it: we also have some historical responsibility. the americans produce more greenhouse gas emissions per capita than we do, but we produce much more than china and much more than india, for instance, if you are referring to the indian case. this is indeed a problem that we have to address in a spirit of global fairness. if we want to solve the problem and if we believe there is a threat to our planet – that of climate change – we need cooperative efforts on all sides. so, yes, we do have more stringent conditions than in some other parts of the world, but we are also viewing this as an opportunity to develop new technologies so that we can meet our targets without putting at risk our companies, because we do not want to export our companies and our jobs.
colleagues, during question hour with president barroso, please do not ask additional questions, because a lot of people are waiting for their first question. i am very sorry, but i would prefer to move on to a fresh question.
president of the commission. − i have already said that i was happy to hear yesterday prime minister papandreou’s commitment to cut the public deficit and reduce government debt through permanent expenditure cuts and revenue increases. i even added that the 2010 budget currently being discussed in the greek parliament and the prime minister’s statement are steps in the right direction. naturally, the commission will continue to monitor closely the macroeconomic and fiscal situation and the implementation of the measures in greece. this is very clear in my statement of support for the measures announced. i believe that this is the best way we can help greece in the very difficult situation they are now facing in terms of budget and debt. i trust those measures will have some important results.
president of the commission. − thank you all for your comments, but let me tell you that there is no first draft of the new strategy. there is a commission working document for consultation but we are not yet at the point of presenting a draft. therefore, all your comments are very welcome. do not expect from me in a reply of one minute to give a decisive answer to such an important issue as the one you have put forward. i am aware of your report. i am aware of some of the interesting proposals you have made in terms of public procurement and, yes, it is also my intention, it is in the broad guidelines. i presented this to parliament, as you will remember, in a reference to the need to deepen those commitments in terms of more market-friendly, more innovative public procurement rules in europe. this is certainly going to be part of our future strategy but i cannot, at this stage, commit to exactly how it will be incorporated.
president of the commission. − we are now assessing the reasons why all the goals and targets were not attained. with the new proposal we will make an assessment – i believe a very honest and objective assessment – of what went right and what went wrong with the lisbon strategy. i cannot commit at this stage to what we are going to propose; we are precisely at this moment thinking about the way forward. that is why, when i mention the discussions i would like to have with you, i talk about real discussions, because your input is very important. i personally think that to have an overall target for all member states is probably not very realistic. i think the next phase of the european union 2020 strategy will have to be more refined and more sophisticated, having specific targets – agreed, of course, with the member states – but for different situations. this is my personal thinking. we have not yet come to the stage of presenting a proposal to you. i would also like the new commission to have full ownership of the proposal, and we will present a bilan of the last lisbon strategy.
president of the commission. − i am not yet at the stage of discussing the financial perspectives and i cannot anticipate what britain’s contribution will be. i understand the concern that you are expressing, because at the present time british taxpayers are paying the biggest contributions because of what happened in the financial sector in britain. there has been no other case of such large state aid as that which we have seen in your country. the point we are at today is the following: we believe it is important to set priorities for the future, to see what we have to spend at national level and what we have to spend at european level, and then to have a discussion about the fair way of sharing that investment. however, we believe that in some cases it makes more sense to spend a euro at european level than at national level because of the potential benefits of exploring the european dimension and the european internal market. we will come to that discussion and i hope at the end we will come to an agreement.
this was our third question hour with the president of the european commission. thank you very much, colleagues, for putting forward questions for discussion. as regards presence, there were slightly more people in the chamber at the end of question hour than there were at the start, at 15.00. i am very sorry about that: we would have preferred to have had a lot of you here. thank you once again, president barroso.
president barroso is smiling very politely, but we will see; we must decide about that. thank you for your proposal.
i just wanted to say thank you so much for letting me speak on this. i think there's no doubt in anyone's mind that terrorism is the curse of the 21st century, that terrorism needs to be fought effectively. so i understand, on the one hand, our concern to respect fundamental rights, but on the other hand we know that we are moving here in an area where not everything can be public. so the question i wanted to ask mrs ashton is this: should we, as parliament, be informed about a very important thing, i think, about the various restrictions on the application of the law. so my question is: what will be the scope of the information to be given to parliament? because in my view, the debate is not about whether parliament can rely on this information, but about the extent to which it can be used.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. according to a number of publicists dealing with european affairs, for many years the so-called democratic deficit in the european institutions has been emerging, sometimes unjustifiably, but sometimes with good reason. it was pointed out that when important decisions are perceived as being made by anonymous european officials somewhere in distant brussels, this democratic mechanism does not work properly. it is therefore important to emphasise that openness is a very important element of the european union's work. the government must be accountable to the people. otherwise, as history has always proven, power becomes demoralized. european society is made up of different peoples living in different countries. the institutions of the european union must therefore be accountable to the citizens of each member state, and full access to documents is a way of ensuring that all the powers vested in the european union are continuously monitored. this is mainly the case for working papers, analyses and consultations carried out by the european commission or the council. it is essential that the influence of interest groups on the formulation of regulations is recorded and made public. it is important that not only parliament has full access to such documents. the right of democratic control should be enjoyed by citizens of all the member states of the european union, so that it applies to any interested social organisation or journalist. only transparency can ensure that the authorities and officials in the european union use their powers for the common good of the citizens of the member states.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the legislation on access to documents, which we here call regulation 1049, has served us well. i am very proud to have contributed to its existence, together with michael cashman and with the contribution of the commission, margot wallström. the treaty of lisbon gives us the opportunity to go one step further, by extending the scope of its application. it's very good. i regret that it was not possible to open an interinstitutional dialogue with the european parliament in the autumn. we have been waiting for the opinion of the european parliament to be able to move forward. i think that the spanish presidency will also need some kind of signal on the european parliament's position here in order to be able to carry on the interinstitutional dialogue. in the meantime, there's a lot we can do. both commissioner wallström and diana wallis referred to the meeting we had this morning as a concrete way of promoting transparency and access to documents and making our institutions more user-friendly. we have discussed, among other things, how we can use our computer systems to enable citizens, journalists, ngos and others to follow legislation from the commission's proposal all the way to its final vote. i believe that this can go a long way towards increasing understanding, knowledge and confidence in the eu. it is as has been said here, namely that transparency is good, necessary and important. it increases the efficiency of decisions, it increases confidence in decisions and it reduces the risk of irregularities and suspicion. if the eu's legitimacy in decision-making is increased, it is also good for the quality of our decisions. it is therefore very good that the european parliament is having this debate and i hope that it will be continued, even if the swedish presidency does not have the opportunity to do so. thank you very much, mr michael cashman, and thank you to the european parliament for raising this issue.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this was a very effective way of softening me up a bit as i now speak for the final time. i could not have chosen a better subject on which to make my last intervention in the european parliament – which it probably is – than on openness and transparency. let me just state some basic facts. the european commission has provided a proposal. it is the only proposal on the table. we did it in the shape of a recast, which means that we think the basic principles in this regulation are sound; they are ok. we can use them but we have to modernise them, upgrade them and make them more effective. this was the whole idea behind the recast. we have some different views on a few things – how to define documents etc. – but these are still the kind of negotiations that we should engage in and make sure that we move things forward. to do that, we need a first reading from parliament. this is the basic message from our side. we also think, on the basis of a new treaty, that we can do it by expanding the scope of this regulation. that is the main difference, as we see it in the commission. it will now cover all the bodies, agencies etc. of the european union. this is where we are today, so we still hope that parliament will now provide, as soon as possible, a first reading. then we can also have the views of the council so that we can enter into proper discussions and negotiations and finally have a decision. regarding a number of very important issues that you have also raised, mr cashman, in your report: i think there are other means that we can use as they are a bit outside the scope of this regulation. but they are still very important initiatives. they have to do with registers, with things we discussed – today, for example – where we can improve openness and transparency, through other methods and not only through the regulation. this is where we will continue. i know you do not like it very much, but i have taken the initiative to make an openness action plan, parts of which we discussed today, where we can join hands and make efforts to continue on openness and transparency and fight for that. on that positive note – i really want it to be a positive note – i would like to thank you all and i also want to use the opportunity to say ‘merry christmas and happy new year’ to all of you.
in writing. mr president, i consider the issue of access to documents of the eu institutions and bodies that we have raised today to be of the utmost importance in the legislative process of the european union. transparency is essential here, as it enables every citizen of the union to have access to documents which, within the meaning of article 15 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, are not only part of the legal order in force but also constitute draft legal acts. thus, any legal entity established or resident in the eu can directly influence the newly created right, as a form of public control. the current regulation 1049/2001 provides for adequate access to community documents, but the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009 has presented us with a unique challenge, where the role and effective participation of european union citizens has been increased. unrestricted access to documents is therefore a key determinant of the future shape and functioning of the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i can't hide my disappointment with both statements we've heard. we here in the european parliament today - the representatives of the european union's authorities - rightly emphasise the role of democracy. we're educating president saakashvili about the changes he wants to bring to his country. i mean, he's already made a lot of changes and georgia today and georgia a few years ago is a completely different country. but we don't remember that there are russian occupation tanks on a large part of georgia's territory today. if you think that ever in history russian tanks brought democracy to anyone, you are deeply mistaken. russian tanks do not bring democracy, russian tanks bring slavery. today we are talking about the situation in georgia, and in the speech by the council representative we heard the word russia once, and russia is the key to the situation in georgia. i'm not saying that everything in georgia is perfect, but there's definitely a lot to improve. but it is the russians who are laughing in our face by not implementing the five-point agreement negotiated on behalf of the european union by president sarkozy. i ask: why are russian troops still in perewi village? has this matter ever even been brought up with the russians? if we talk about the need for democracy, human rights, tolerance and freedom of speech, i'm all for it. but, ladies and gentlemen, do we think that russia today is promoting these values in georgia, or is russian aggression against georgia an act of fighting for democracy? no, it is an act of brutal imperialism. we must, as the european union, stand up to this brutal imperialism. only then will we be credible in telling our georgian friends that they still have a lot to do - and i agree - to bring their country fully up to our european standards. but we cannot point to georgia when on the other hand we have russia, where uncomfortable journalists are murdered, where the language of hatred towards neighbours, towards minorities, is the language of the official media, is the language of leading russian politicians. we need to say this because then we can be credible in telling all other countries, including georgia, about democracy. i want to appeal to the european union to stand firm and decisively in defence of georgia's territorial integrity, to defend freedom and democracy in georgia against russian aggression, in the name of the values we all share.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, neither mrs malmström nor mr ferrero-waldner's speech has captured the reality of what we are facing in georgia, namely a dramatic humanitarian and human situation. i had the impression that neither we nor you were responsible for the european union's lack of reaction. let me remind you that the situation is very dramatic. the six-point agreement is not being implemented. ethnic cleansing is taking place in georgia. the georgian language is banned in many places. our mission there is being shut down in many places, and we are responsible for that. mrs ferrero-waldner said that there was a long-term macroeconomic aid, that we were going to have an association agreement with georgia. great, but the question for us is, what did we do about it? i am deeply disappointed not only by what has been said in this chamber today by the speakers responsible for this policy, but also by the union's policy so far.
commissioner and minister! unlike my polish colleagues, i will not be so critical in my assessment of the european union's activities, because i want to express my satisfaction with the council statement of 12 december, which clearly expresses its opinion on the recent presidential elections in abkhazia, and i also want to stress the support for the european union's action, which is clear when it comes to the recognition of the independence of these two regions on the international scene. i know this from my experience in relations with belarus. however, i agree that the european union must be firm in enforcing the six-point ceasefire plan that was negotiated by president sarkozy. i say this especially in the face of very disturbing statements by the high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, that she will conduct quiet diplomacy. i hope that quiet diplomacy will not mean allowing the breach of the agreements made on behalf of russia with the representatives of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! if the eu does not support tbilisi politically and economically, we will facilitate russia's neo-imperialist policy towards georgia, which will further destabilise the situation in the caucasus. that is why the union must do more. are we to conclude from our repeated support for territorial integrity that the six-point plan is not being followed at all? on the one hand we say that we want a democratic, free, territorial integral georgia, and on the other hand our observers are not allowed to the areas along the borders with the separatist republics. also of concern is the phenomenon of abductions, which have become a routine practice of russia in the occupied zones. in early november, several teenagers were killed. the youngest was only 14. the kremlin is clearly trying to discredit the president of georgia, trying to show that he is not able to ensure the security of his citizens. russia's destabilising actions pose a major threat to the security of the border area's residents and lead to escalation in the region. mr. chairman, please! we must act more decisively, because a georgia that is territorially and democratically integrated is a better security for the european union and for europe.
i think that in the light of our discussion we need to go back to what mrs malmström said at the very beginning: georgia needs a new, big opening from the european union. it should consist of macro-economic aid, as quickly and as immediately as possible, the opening of talks on an association agreement, the opening of talks - that is the third point - on visa facilitation and finally the opening of the way for georgia to be able to guarantee its security, or the way, let us say, openly, to nato. but i don't think that's even the case that makes me want to speak up in this part of the debate today. i would like to ask commissioner ferrero-waldner a rhetorical question: do you wonder why almost all speakers are drawing attention to the issue of the sarkozy plan? please answer this question. why, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your speech, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your, in your can the most important institutions of the european union really not afford to let you speak clearly on this issue?
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we must remember that georgia is a small country. a fact, extremely strategically located in the southern caucasus, which creates a conflict situation with its powerful northern neighbor, russia. so i'm grateful to the commissioner for the declaration that the aid measures that georgia is so eagerly awaiting will be launched tomorrow. remember that when georgia decided to go down the path of democratic reforms, georgia, which decided to connect more with western europe than with russia - as it had done for decades, and even centuries, one could say - lost an economic partner that bought 80% of the country's production from georgia. we did nothing to go into this place and buy goods made in georgia to ensure that this country could function. therefore, this declaration is very close to me, as is the announcement of the construction of a macroeconomic project for georgia. and one more point: commissioner, we cannot regard georgia as our separate political partner because georgia is involved in an incredibly complicated geopolitical situation. i cannot imagine that the european union will not say a word about the situation in georgia in its talks with russia. i do not want to repeat sarkozy's six-point plan, because everyone has been talking about it, but we must remember that our contacts, which are of course very important for us, with a powerful partner like russia must also apply to those smaller partners who are close and dear to us.
mr president, we are discussing the aspirations of ukraine, moldova and georgia; these are similar aspirations to be closer to the european union. it seems that this is a problem for us. i wonder what will happen in 10 years’ time, when those aspirations turn to disappointment and there are no more aspirations to join the european union, with no expectations for anything more. this will be a much more difficult situation for us. georgia is the country with the highest support from society for membership of the european union, and the highest support for nato, of all the eastern partnership countries. there is also the greatest progress in market reforms. if we do not move more quickly we will have the same situation as with turkey, where society is backing away from its european aspirations. that will be a really dangerous situation in spite – and maybe because – of other political movements around these countries. we see what is going on in russia, and when the aspirations of georgia for european union membership falter we may face a situation that is quite dangerous for all european union countries.
mr. chairman, please! i represent poland a country that may not have to worry about the crisis as much as hungary or latvia, but in my country, contrary to government propaganda, unemployment is also clearly rising, and today's demonstration in warsaw was protested by shipbuilders who have just received the last of their paycheck. according to the analysis of the national bank of poland, the dynamics of recession processes in 9 central and eastern european countries were significantly stronger than in western european countries. what is worse, the differences between the countries of our region are greater than in the countries of the 'old union'. this is partly due not only to the greater stability of the former 15 economies, but also, let us say, to their greater ability to use or bend certain financial instruments, theoretically prohibited by the european union, the countries of the "old union". the european commission and commissioner neelie kroes have looked the other way on berlin's aid to german shipyards, but have also condemned the polish authorities and ordered them to return eu aid to the shipyards. it turns out that in practice we are dealing with equal and more equal, with a double standard. the french automotive industry is more likely to receive government aid than the automotive industry in the countries of the 'new union'. it only adds to the disparity. the commissioner spoke of the euro's saving power, but i think he was joking. poland does not have the euro currency and the crisis has affected us less than slovakia, which introduced the euro and the consequences of the crisis are more serious there than in poland. i would like to appeal for the solidarity that the ppe representative spoke of, but i have the impression that he is a hypocrite in this respect. in this context, hypocrisy is not a bowing to virtue.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! more than a year after the biggest shock to american society since 9/11, the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, we are wiser in another experience. what has happened in the last 12 months is a clear demonstration of the fallacy of neoliberal policies, and, like 9/11, it has made us look at the world in a different way. the effects of the economic crisis have affected virtually every part of the world, but the most important thing for me is that it has affected many millions of europeans. the report published by the world bank a few days ago leaves no doubt that the eastern european member states need help not only in their internal affairs. if the crisis could bring 11 million people from eastern europe and central asia into poverty, and another 23 million by the end of 2010, we cannot afford to remain indifferent. financial support is needed, but also intellectual support, to develop appropriate social programmes for the countries most affected by the crisis. in previous crises, families could have saved themselves by emigrating or working several jobs. the crisis today is global, which makes this kind of solution impossible. if we do not want to see a repeat of last year's events, we should mobilise significantly more european funds, focus on promoting employment and strengthen international cooperation. all these activities should be concentrated in a single social policy.
on the tape. the economic crisis has hit central and eastern european countries particularly hard. the economic indicators have been falling in many countries, not just in our region, over the past year. however, it should be noted that countries have responded to the crisis in different ways. poland is the clear regional positive leader. as commissioner almunia admitted during the debate, poland was the only country to avoid a recession and to maintain positive growth all along. although the region's economic situation is slowly stabilising, it is worth considering what measures can be taken to restore economic growth and avoid similar turmoil in the future. in the short term, governments in these countries should adopt more robust exit strategies. balance budgetary expenditure, actively combat unemployment and social exclusion, and create conditions for the development of entrepreneurship on the one hand and for the growth of demand on the other. external assistance is as important as action at the national level. european and international financial institutions should launch a special credit line for small and medium-sized enterprises and to support infrastructure projects. such action would certainly lead to increased employment and social improvements. in the long term, the best solution seems to be to join the euro area and create the conditions for sustainable and stable growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the historical fact is that the founding fathers of the european union were christian democrats: konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi, robert schuman, jean monnet, who based the structure on christian values and symbols. i would remind you that the flag adopted by the european union, which depicts a circle of twelve golden stars on a laurel background, and which hangs behind the president, refers to the twelve stars above the head of the blessed virgin mary revelation of st. john, chapter 12. after more than half a century, it is worth asking whether the philosophy of the founding fathers is still relevant. in the context of the scandalous ruling of the european court of human rights ordering the removal of the cross in an italian school, it must be stated unequivocally that no panel of judges appointed by politicians, not even the council of europe, can order the removal of a cross that has a religious and universal dimension. the verdict has been a sign of freedom of religion and of europe's cultural heritage. in this context, i would like to ask the commissioner: do you not consider that the attack on christian symbols is also a dismantling of the foundations of the european union? could you, on behalf of the commission, initiate a debate on the role and significance of christian symbols in the european union?
madam president! the european court of human rights in strasbourg rightly ruled that the display of crosses in school classrooms violates the freedom of religion of students and the right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own beliefs. the judges unanimously ruled that the school's cross violated the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the verdict is simple, clear and universally understood. that is why it has aroused such anger and aggression from clergymen and right-wing politicians. they pretend not to understand it and demand an explanation from the commission and an official position from parliament. it's against the law! the eu institutions are not entitled to assess this judgment, nor any other. let us not forget that there is a tripartite power and that the court is an organ of the council of europe, not of the european union. i answer the questions put by the authors, since they have such doubts: the judgment on the cross does not violate the principle of subsidiarity. on the contrary, it helps those european countries to respect the law, which have forgotten that their constitutions contain, if not a clause on the separation of church and state, then at least a clause on the neutrality of worldview. the court's ruling helps church-oriented national authorities and courts to enforce fundamental rights of citizens that have been violated by the clericalisation of society. citizens of religious states are unable to defend their rights before national courts. it's good they can go to court and get justice. the judgment is consistent with respect for the national identities of the member states and should be enforced. it does not prohibit the display of religious symbols in public spaces, but only in a small part of them, such as public schools. no one is demanding that crosses be removed from churches, from public squares, or from flags, as one of the members of parliament has unwisely said. this is not an interference in church-state relations, but only the defense of citizens whose rights are being violated. in my country too, the progressive clericalisation is restricting the basic rights of poles. i cannot imagine that the european parliament and the commission would prevent my countrymen from asserting their legitimate rights before the court in strasbourg. the commission and parliament's negative attitude to this judgment would be an unwarranted interference and would also make us look ridiculous. i warn you against that!
in writing. the court's ruling, in my opinion, has nothing to do with protecting religious freedom. the mere presence of the cross in a classroom does not impose a worldview and does not violate the right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their beliefs. nor does wearing clothing that reflects your religion violate this law. the basis of a common, united europe is mutual understanding and openness to others. both respect for the cultural diversity of the countries and the roots and traditions of the peoples who make up the european union. it is no secret that the roots of our european identity are firmly rooted in the christian tradition. for the vast majority of europeans, therefore, the cross is a religious symbol and a symbol of values. i can't imagine that the dialogue we have with each other every day is anything other than what we value. that in the name of religious freedom, we are forced to deny the symbols that are important and sacred to us, whether it's the cross, the star of david or the crescent moon. just as no one can be forced to follow a particular belief or set of values, so, in the name of freedom, no one can be forced to remove symbols that are important to all of humanity. the court's ruling does not actually protect religious freedom, but it does discriminate against all those for whom symbols of faith are important in their lives.
as i said before, i have asked about the decision of the european council, and the committee on constitutional affairs should also take into account and study the problem. there is no final decision yet about the number of new seats and from which country they should come. there is no final decision; i know it is the decision of the european parliament, but it is not final, so it is not so easy to take observers without having the final decision about the number and from which country they should come. so we must wait. i am thinking about that and taking care about that very strongly.
i would like to point out that an agreement has been reached between the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, and the president-in-office of the european council, mr reinfeldt, that the last month of the presidency will be conducted according to the old rules. this is the agreement that applies. the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, will take office on 1 january 2010.
i would like to make it very clear to you that inviting and working with the president of the european council and the prime minister in office, who represents the rotating presidency, is a matter for all members of parliament. we will also decide who will be invited and in what order. we will also agree on how we will work together at the interinstitutional level european parliament and european council . i also think that these are premature remarks. interinstitutional agreements must be concluded. the european commission is also involved. it's premature to discuss this. it is very important that we maintain a proper balance between the incumbent presidency and the prime minister and the president of the european council, herman van rompuy. our presidencies change, and the chairman remains the same, but we also need to work with the prime ministers. we need to work with governments because as a legislative body, we need to be in constant contact with the government of the country that holds the presidency. how we will cooperate and whom we will invite is also our decision. in agreement with the european council, of course. we'll talk about it later. i just wanted to tell you, mr. colleague, that it's too soon to do anything about it. meanwhile, prime minister reinfeldt is giving a half-yearly report on the european council. mr van rompuy was not involved in these activities because he was nominated only a few weeks ago, nor could he discuss the matter today. the case is quite obvious, mr. colleague.
i would like to warmly welcome prime minister reinfeldt, who has been with us for nearly half a year as president-in-office. i would also like to welcome president barroso. the next item is the joint debate on:– the council statement on the results of the swedish presidency;– the european council report and commission statement on the outcome of the european council on 10 and 11 december 2009.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to address the european parliament once again and at such a crucial time. as we speak, representatives from 193 countries are gathered in a conference centre in copenhagen, talking, arguing, negotiating and trying to meet the expectations of millions of people around the world. in just two days the un climate conference will be over. soon we will be looking back at a meeting that was crucial, not only for the eu but for the world; a meeting that was decisive for those who cannot grow their crops because of lack of water, decisive for those who have lost their homes in tornadoes or floods, and decisive for those who are vainly building walls against a sea level that rises every year. we know what is at risk, so why is it then so difficult to act? is it because we fear any change of our way of life? still, we know that if we keep on using the world’s resources the way we do, our current way of life will no longer be an option and we will face even more drastic changes. we have much greater things than our everyday comfort to fear. the fight against climate change has been at the top of the agenda throughout the swedish presidency, at all our european council meetings and in all our summits with the union’s major partners. as you probably know, we adopted a comprehensive mandate at our october european council to keep the eu’s leading position in the climate negotiations. we agreed on a long-term goal for emissions reductions of 80%-95% by 2050 and we renewed our offer to reduce emissions – 30%, provided that others make comparable efforts. we agreed on emission reductions for international transport and, despite resistance from some corners, we put figures on the global financial need in developing countries to fight climate change. last week – after weeks of bilateral consultations – we took yet another step: a collectively put-together financial package earmarked for the ‘fast start’ of climate action in developing countries, offering eur 7.2 billion for the coming three years. i know that this is not enough. therefore i must say that, while i am satisfied that the european council could agree to this step, the time is now ripe for other developed countries to join us. so, what do we need to do in copenhagen? we need binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not just from the developed countries, but also from developing countries, to ensure that global warming keeps below the 2°c target that science tells us is necessary. i have sat down with the indian and chinese leadership. i know what they say about this. why should they agree to develop clean and green, when we have polluted the world for decades? that is one way of looking at it, but the problem is this: the developed world cannot solve the problem alone. emissions from the developing world are already starting to exceed those from the developed world. that is why we must work together to solve the problem. from our side, we can compensate for years of irresponsible behaviour. we can help finance climate action in the developing world. the european union took its responsibility last week. it is not the form that matters in copenhagen but the substance. we can be satisfied if we get a deal on emissions reductions and on financing, and a commitment to start immediate action and, more importantly, we can start fighting climate change. last year we were suddenly faced with the most serious financial crisis since the 1930s. the ground was literally shaking under our feet. suddenly it became clear to us how interlinked the financial markets were and how interdependent we all were in finding a common response. in the course of only a few months, governments in the eu adopted extraordinary support measures. it was a fast and impressive response but it came with a price. our aggregated deficit in public finances now amounts to almost 7% of gdp – over three times more than last year. twenty member states are experiencing excessive deficit procedures. so the follow-up to the economic and financial crisis has, quite naturally, been another main priority throughout this autumn. let me briefly touch on what we have done. at the end of october we agreed on a fiscal exit strategy, and at last week’s european council we agreed on principles for exiting from financial support schemes. in addition, we agreed on a fundamentally new structure for financial supervision in europe. when financial flows are international, supervision can no longer be national. now it is up to the european parliament to agree to the final steps. it was also clear to us that the ‘bonus culture’ could not continue in the way in which people had become used to. i am pleased that the eu managed to convince the g20 to agree on far-reaching changes to this policy. the new rules will reinforce the need for a link between result and reward. the economic and financial crisis hit us hard but we have shown the ability to act and we have strengthened our resistance. once we have secured our recovery, the eu will stand stronger, thanks to the measures we have adopted. the swedish presidency took place during a period of institutional change. when we took over on 1 july, this parliament was newly elected. we had not yet appointed a president of the european commission. the outcome of the then pending irish referendum was uncertain. it was not clear whether the treaty of lisbon would be ratified by all member states. it was not even clear whether it could enter into force during the swedish presidency. then the drama unravelled. in close consultation with this parliament, josé manuel barroso was appointed president of the european commission for a second term. the presidency now had a stable counterpart in the commission to work with. the outcome of the irish referendum was a victory for ireland. it was a victory for european cooperation. it brought us one step closer to the treaty of lisbon. but then the unexpected happened. at a late stage, the czech president came with new conditions before he would sign. we had to handle these requests in a way that did not trigger similar conditions from other member states and we managed to do this at the european council in october. a few days later the czech president signed. immediately after the signature i started to consult my colleagues again. we had to agree on high-ranking positions – on the president of the european council, and to nominate the high representative. i am not exaggerating when i say it was a relief when all preparations were finalised on 1 december. the treaty of lisbon could finally enter into force. now the european union will be more efficient. it will have better tools to fight climate change and influence the global economic agenda. the new president of the european council will ensure continuity. the high representative will assure coordination in our external relations. we will have a more democratic union with the greater involvement of the european parliament and of our national parliaments. a new era for the european union has begun. when i stood here before you on 15 july, we were still in the throes of the financial and economic crisis. there was uncertainty on the transition of the new treaty. we did not know whether we would manage to unite ourselves and encourage others on the not so long – but very winding – road to copenhagen. with the european council meeting last week, the swedish presidency has delivered on all five of its priorities: a strong eu mandate for climate change; follow-up of the economic and financial crisis; the eu baltic sea strategy; the stockholm programme for justice and home affairs; reinforcing the eu as a global actor, including enlargement, and a new external action service. as i said, with the treaty of lisbon in place, a new era has begun in the european union. i would like to end by thanking all of you. the presidency needed the help of the european parliament in tackling the challenges we were facing. thank you for giving us that help. i would also like to thank the commission, and especially josé manuel barroso. i have probably spent more than a healthy amount of time with josé manuel this autumn. he has been a tremendous support to me and to the swedish presidency. finally, i would like to thank the member states for their will to put aside differences and start compromising – with the best for europe at heart – to find solutions that are not only of benefit to them, but to europe as a whole. this unity is our strength.
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister, during the past six months we have seen a new treaty come into force, ending almost a decade of debate and opening the door to new opportunities for this new, enlarged european union we have today. we have seen the first evidence that decisive action taken to stabilise the european economy in the face of crisis is bearing some results. and as we enter the end game in copenhagen, we can be clear that the european union has been working hard to maintain the momentum it has championed towards decisive global action on climate change. i would therefore like to pay a very sincere tribute to prime minister fredrik reinfeldt and all the team of the swedish presidency for a highly successful presidency. it is particularly important that the swedish presidency has been so effective in ensuring the completion of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, managing the transition to this new treaty while achieving all the other objectives. we have seen the appointment of the first president of the european council and of the first high representative, the vice-president of the commission, by the european council. and let us not forget – because it was a very important moment for this parliament, following the unanimous designation by the european council – we have seen the election by this parliament of the president of the next commission with a qualified majority. last week’s european council was the first time that it has met as a fully fledged institution. it was also the first time that the new high representative and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, has attended. the new president of the european council will be fully functioning by 1 january 2010 and has presented his ideas on how to organise the european council in the future. i very much welcome all the proposals to give the european council more consistency and more continuity in its work. i also welcome the ideas of having more political, frank discussions and short and punchy conclusions. there were many other issues that were the object of the european council. i would like to highlight just some, not forgetting one very important one, the definition of the baltic strategy, which can be a model for other regional cooperation inside the european union and with some of our partners. on the economy, we are keeping the right balance between maintaining the stimulus and preparing our exit strategies. i presented the scene for our european 2020 strategy. i hope the european council will focus on the discussion of this very important agenda for the future of europe, namely through discussions in the next meetings, in the formal european council in february and in the spring european council. i would like to reiterate here my offer to come to this plenary so that parliament can organise a specific debate on this very important issue. i think it is extremely important that there is full ownership by the european parliament and, on the side of the council, by the european council, of this european union 2020 strategy, which is where our future will be played. on the stockholm programme, the commission’s proposals have now been translated into an agreed approach for the next five years. i know that many in this parliament share our determination to use this springboard to seize the opportunities of the lisbon treaty for a step change in european action on freedom, security and justice. that was one of the major reasons why i decided to reorganise the portfolios of the next college in this area. it is going to be one of the most important areas of the european union’s work in the next five years. the european council had a particular significance for climate change. in the past few years the european union has developed a consistent and ambitious approach on climate change. i am very proud that the commission has been the initiator of this very ambitious agenda. the impact of reduced emissions may only be felt in several decades’ time, but we are already taking concrete steps, giving our targets the force of law. let us be frank about this. some of our partners are announcing their intentions by press statements; but we have announced our intentions by law, law that is already agreed by all the member states. the developed world must act, but it must also help the developing world to decouple growth and emissions. i think that it is right that the european council last week centred on how we can put this global leadership at the service of an ambitious deal at copenhagen: by promising help to developing countries not in some distant future but already next year; by making clear that the deal must be comprehensive and must have the verification mechanisms to make it stick; by maintaining our readiness to up our targets, but only if others put ambitious commitments on the table as well. i think the european council achieved very important results, namely on two matters. first, on finance, the council was able successfully to put together a fast-start finance package, bigger than expected and, critically, with every member state involved. of course, some have said that this is not enough coming from the european union, but eur 7.2 billion, more than usd 10 billion in the current circumstances, and for three years, is a very serious commitment. i hope the money is now guaranteed, not just an aspiration. it is now for others to match it. the european council also reiterated its commitment for medium-term financing, to ensure it gives the fair contribution that is necessary for 2020. second, action on climate has sometimes been a divisive point for the european council. however, the atmosphere this time was different. there was a strong shared sense that everyone has an interest in the european union pulling its weight. we should now be getting the benefits from the investment we have made as the pioneers in this agenda. what i did find generally encouraging was recognition that the european union has to stand together. let us hope that this determination holds firm under the pressures of the next two or three days. what can we expect over the next few days? prime minister rasmussen of denmark will probably put forward a text today – but with a lot of the key numbers still left blank. the leaders’ task will be to move this forward to a deal. this is why i am going to copenhagen immediately after this debate. together with prime minister reinfeldt, we will do our best for the european union to lead this debate. we know that the atmosphere at the moment is not easy at copenhagen. we also know that this is part of the usual rhythm of a top negotiation. however, the arrival of so many heads of state and government will be a powerful driver to reach a deal. if that deal includes real commitment to cut emissions from both developed and developing countries; a clear commitment on financing to make this happen; and an agreement on how this is to be applied and verified – if this agreement includes the different elements of the bali road map and can be seen to be in the right ball park to respect the 2°c limit, then i think we will say rightly that it will be a major achievement. we are not there yet, but i believe it is possible to reach that agreement. the next few days will show whether the ambitions we have discussed in this parliament so often are going to be realised, but i sense already that there is a compelling need for change and that we need to make this success in copenhagen. there is a huge amount at stake. there is of course a balance to be found, but there is also a sense that today’s generation knows that there is a challenge which cannot be avoided. i believe last week’s european council left the european union ready to meet the challenge. i hope that with european leadership we will achieve success at copenhagen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's a pity you didn't mention time-keeping until after my speech. i'll try to keep up with the time. prime minister! of course, you deserve our thanks. as mentioned above, the swedish presidency has been through a difficult transitional period of turbulence associated with the adoption of the lisbon treaty. that time is behind us, but it also coincided with the economic crisis. i would like to begin my speech, which will not be just sweet, by thanking you for the swedish presidency avoiding the easy temptation of populism in these difficult times of crisis. prime minister! you've proven that there are no easy answers to hard questions. the swedish presidency has shown that in times of crisis the european union is able to find good and non-populist solutions that can help not only europe but the whole world to get out of this difficult situation. i would like to thank you very much for your hard work, for your respect for the member states and for the respect you have shown for the european parliament. it was a difficult time, and i think you really passed the test in that area. you can be happy to finish your mission in a couple of days. i think you mentioned the kozhar in your speech on foreign policy. i'm afraid i'm going to have to say a few bitter words here. i believe that in terms of foreign policy, and especially in two areas, the swedish presidency and the last six months cannot be considered successful. first, i think the completely unnecessary crisis associated with this unfortunate article about israeli soldiers in the swedish newspaper and the whole unnecessary inflammation of relations between the swedish presidency and israel has been projected on this for the last six months. i want to say that it was wrong that you did not condemn this article in the swedish newspaper. my entire group and i believe that israeli soldiers are defending not only israel, but our entire civilization. i think that there has been a lack of clear support for our main ally in the middle east, which is israel, in the last six months. the evidence of this is the recent conclusions of the european council on the middle east, which, although in my opinion are better than what was proposed, do not put us in a leadership role in the middle east. the european union should lead the peace process and be the main force towards peace in the middle east. if we are to play this role, we must be above divisions. we cannot take a one-sided pro-palestinian position. six months in foreign policy didn't stop it. we talked about it yesterday at the georgia thing. i think that the growing russian imperialism is one of the major problems of the european union. he is a threat not only to russia's neighbors, but to the entire european union. nevertheless, mr prime minister, thank you for your leadership, for sweden's presidency of the european union. it is the role of parliament to look at what we do not always think is best. i believe that despite the negative comments i have made, the balance of the swedish presidency is positive. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8)).)
on behalf of the ecr group. i believe that israel is the only democracy in the middle east. the state of israel is a beacon for the countries of the middle east in the field of democracy. war, of course, is a difficult thing, one that always brings sad consequences. that's why we should support peace. i believe our role is to support the middle east peace process and to stand firm against terrorism.
i also wanted to join in the thanks that are being addressed to the swedish presidency - and to prime minister reinfeldt personally - for his efficiency and, at the same time, for the excellently fulfilled priorities of this presidency. of course, what is important for the citizens of the european union is, in particular, action to mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis. this is linked to support for the business sector, both to restore jobs, to create conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and to eliminate the causes of the crisis, in particular in financial markets, so that it does not recur in the future. i believe that european supervision in this area is not enough and that we must also influence the way in which bank and financial institution managers operate in the field of ethics, also as a democratically elected institution. and the copenhagen summit. i fully support the position expressed by president barroso. here, indeed, partnership is needed from other major economic players to make the effects of this summit truly achievable.
mr. chairman, please! we meet here in parliament every six months to review the achievements of the next country to end its presidency of the european union. the swedish presidency will go down in history for having succeeded in pushing through the european constitution, now known as the lisbon treaty, which had been launched almost 10 years earlier. this was done against the wishes of many nations. the results of the referendums in france, the netherlands and ireland were flagrantly ignored. the principle of the democratic deficit has been introduced, which is to be regulated from the top down in order to improve the union's administrative mechanisms. the first changes in the selection of people for new positions in the union have so far brought organizational confusion and general amusement in europe and the world. the swedish presidency is really leaving the european union in a state of uncertainty and chaos.
a lot of good things have happened in the union during the swedish presidency. it is a difficult period of crisis and expectations for the acceptance of the lisbon treaty. but i do not share the view that we have a different union or a new union. i think we have at most a renewed union. in fact, we must not only fill the general provisions of the treaty with specific content but also with concrete practical solutions. it is important to divide the responsibilities for key positions or, finally, how we will define the relations between the eu institutions, including the new role of the european parliament. i am concerned about the possible limitation of the role of the rotating presidency of the member states which have so determinedly prepared for and held the presidency. if the president-in-office of the european council is not here to give a report and the president of the presidency is not here with us, the union will be incomplete and will lose its diversity. the countries holding the presidency must then creatively inspire new action, and the permanent presidency of the european council must ensure coordination, continuity and coherence of the union's action.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, coming to the end of this debate, we are also coming to the end of the last presidency on the rotating principle, as has been mentioned. soon josé manuel barroso and i will leave for copenhagen, so just a comment on financial resources, because i think that will be at the heart of the discussions we will now have with the developing countries. we were able to put a figure on the table – eur 2.4 billion annually – between 2010 and 2012. the importance for us was to say that this is directed to these years, earmarked for 2010 to 2012, and it will also be available for support when it comes to climate protection. the discussion on how to meet the millennium development goals is an important discussion. i want to point out that the member states have agreed that we should commit ourselves to disbursing collectively 0.56% of eu gni by 2010, that is already next year, and coming up to the un percentage level of 0.7 in 2015 when it comes to official development assistance. this is very much in the hands of the member states. to point out the obvious, very many of the member states are below these figures today. sweden is in a very exclusive club, almost alone at 1% of gni when it comes to development assistance. this should also be remembered when we discuss these levels: that there are differences between the countries. we made it voluntary for the member states to give the resources that they were able to give. i am very happy to report back that all 27 member states made contributions to these fast-start resources. in some cases they were very small contributions, but the european voice is heard in the sense that everyone actually contributed. thank you again also for the cooperation we have had with parliament. it is the fourth time during the swedish presidency that i, as prime minister, have addressed this parliament. that does not even come close to cecilia malmström’s number of engagements with parliament, because she has been here 25 times to speak to you. in all, the presidency has addressed parliament in plenary on 43 occasions during our term in office and we have been in committee on 44 different occasions. that is also important when it comes to the discussions on transparency and good cooperation between the institutions. we knew of the importance of having a good link with the european parliament. we prepared ourselves to be present, to be here, to be able to answer questions, and we thank you for that very good cooperation.
prime minister, in two weeks’ time your presidency of the european union will come to an end. thank you for your activity and for your energy. it has not been an easy presidency; we know that. as we heard from our members, and the many points of view expressed, it has been a successful presidency. i wish to thank you personally and, indeed, the entire swedish government. for the first time in history we experienced, over the last few weeks, new relations as a result of the lisbon treaty. thank you very much. we will remember your presidency.
president of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to answer some of the concrete questions from the members of parliament who are still here. for instance, mr severin spoke about economic, social and territorial cohesion, and i want to underline the point he made. in fact, in the first exchange of views which we had in the european council on the future european union 2020 strategy, it was agreed – see point 18 of the conclusions – that every effort should be made to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as gender equality. i think it is important to have this from the beginning of the discussion of the european union 2020 strategy. of course the emphasis is on competitiveness and the need to respond to the global challenges which we are now facing, but we should do that in conjunction with promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. this is going to be very important not only for the definition of this strategy but also for the next financial perspectives. another concrete point regarding the european supervisory authorities was raised, namely by mr karas and also by ms dati. let me be clear on this matter. we very much welcome the fact that the european council was able to reach a unanimous agreement. frankly, some time ago it would have been inconceivable to have all the member states agreeing on a text on financial supervision at european level. having said this, while i respect the delicate nature of some of the issues addressed by our proposals, i believe the commission’s text has been diluted a bit too much. the commission, in its proposal, had foreseen a simple and workable fiscal safeguard clause, precisely because this is a very sensitive matter. anyway, i regret the removal of the proposed powers of the authorities to address decisions directly to individual financial institutions in two out of the three situations where the commission had proposed it. i regret the fact that the issue of emergency situations has been politicised by giving the council the responsibility of declaring that an emergency exists, and i also regret that the potential scope of direct supervision by the european supervisory authorities has been limited to credit-rating agencies only. i hope the european parliament will reinforce and rebalance the regulations in these areas in the next negotiating phase. coming to the issue of copenhagen, and let me be clear about this: it was very important that the european council confirmed the previous commitments saying that we are ready to move to a 30% reduction by 2020, compared to 1990 levels, provided that other developed countries commit themselves to comparable emission reductions and that developing countries contribute adequately according to their responsibilities and respected capabilities. we will continue to assess mitigation plans from other countries and take this decision at the appropriate time in copenhagen. in fact, during the european council, i had mentioned the possibility of having some modulation in our offer, namely the possibility of constructing some pathways beyond 2020. this discussion is not just about 2020; it is for after 2020. so we should have some flexibility on the pathways that we can define after 2020. it is in this spirit that we go to copenhagen not only to achieve the most ambitious agreement but also to have a real global agreement.
president barroso, thank you once again. i would like to thank prime minister reinfeldt, minister malmström, a former member of the european parliament, and the whole of the swedish government for their very active cooperation with the european parliament. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the swedish presidency has been a very positive one. its clear success is first and foremost the completion of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty. as a member of the legal affairs committee, i also regard the compromise reached in the council on the eu patent and the unified patent judicial system as a success. the debate on a common patent for the whole union has been going on for a long time. it is high time that concrete steps were taken in this area, as the lack of uniform regulations is a barrier to the development of european companies and makes it difficult for them to compete with, for example, american companies. we have had many opportunities in the past to see how difficult it is to reconcile the interests of all the member states on the eu patent, and i am all the more grateful to the swedish presidency for the compromise that has been reached, at least for now, at political level. the lisbon treaty gives the union a legal basis for the establishment of intellectual property law and provides for the adoption of relevant standards through the codecision procedure. that is why we are going to have a very interesting debate in parliament during the next spanish presidency, on the basis of a compromise which will be worked out in december this year.
in writing. the 2020 strategy will set the direction of the union's operations and its main priorities for the next 10 years. in the context of the expiring lisbon strategy, it is important to continue the current socioeconomic priorities and to find effective measures to counter the effects of the economic crisis. in the context of the ongoing consultation on the future strategy, i would like to draw attention to two aspects: improving the education system in europe and gender equality in the labour market. the education system in europe needs to change. building a modern knowledge-based economy is not possible without a young, well-educated workforce. more financial support should be provided for existing eu programmes (erasmus, erasmus mundus, leonardo da vinci) and new initiatives should be created to help young people to study, gain experience abroad and have the financial and administrative means to use it at home. the union, which puts the needs of its citizens first, should adopt a programme which, in each of these objectives, promotes the principle of gender equality, particularly in the fight against unemployment. the new strategy must focus on increasing the participation of women in employment. indeed, eurostat research shows that women workers are more affected by the crisis than men, partly because they work in more vulnerable jobs. discrimination in the labour market remains a serious problem that the new strategy must tackle.
in writing. − i supported the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund because the current situation on labour markets requires us to act for workers. previous crises have been characterised by their regional focus and concentration in one place. then all those who had lost their jobs or were struggling financially could emigrate for gain or work several jobs. today, given the global nature of the financial crisis, that is not an option. the current situation in the financial markets requires support for the many millions of people who have lost their jobs over the past year. this is not just about helping people find a job, of course, but also about taking advantage of the labour market's flexibility and retraining workers, organising appropriate training, for example in computer skills or vocational guidance. the bulk of the egf should be dedicated to promoting entrepreneurship and self-employment, as the opportunity to set up a business and earn an income on one's own account is an opportunity to maintain financial stability and growth in the event of job loss. i believe that programmes such as the european globalisation adjustment fund are very necessary because they are a response to a specific situation and directly support those who have been most affected by the crisis.
in writing. - i welcomed the resolution on the wto, because it is a particularly important issue in our time. it is in the interest of all of us to find a quick solution to this crisis, which is global in nature. it seems that one of the most effective ways to contain the crisis is to expand world trade. it is easier to limit economic reforms to regional or national levels, but in the long run this is not a good way of dealing with a crisis which has a global dimension and which requires common instruments of a global nature. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive deficit. at the same time, we must adopt reasonable rules of competition. in those rules, product quality standards and production conditions are particularly important, including in the context of climate change mitigation and co2 emissions reduction. a particularly sensible approach is needed for highly sensitive goods such as agricultural and foodstuffs. in the future, it will be necessary to consider whether, in parallel with the liberalisation of trade in agricultural goods at world level under the wto, it is also necessary to introduce the harmonisation of certain elements of the agricultural policy at world level. the specificities of the agricultural sector, its dependence on climatic conditions and quality issues related to food security, as well as production conditions and the problem of world food security, should be taken into account. in the wto negotiations, we need more understanding of others and goodwill!
dear honoured guests, dear colleagues, dear friends, there are days when i am particularly proud to sit in the chair of the european parliament as president. today is such a day. today we are honouring the winners of the 2009 sakharov prize, the prize for freedom of thought. it is an enormous honour to recall that the conference of presidents decided to award the prize to oleg orlov, sergei kovalev and lyudmila alexeyeva, on behalf of memorial and all other human rights defenders in russia. i am proud that this decision was taken unanimously. (loud and sustained applause)with this prize we, members of the european parliament, honour those still among us who fight for human rights, but we also honour those who lost their lives in this very struggle. natalia estemirova should have been among us today, as should anna politkovskaya. their killers have yet to be brought to justice. (applause) we in europe know what the price of freedom is; what the price of freedom of thought is. on 16 december, exactly 28 years ago, strikers were killed in the wujek coal mine by the polish communist police, because they fought for solidarity; that is for basic human rights, for dignity. twenty years ago, on 16 december in romania, a revolution started which claimed the lives of over 1 000 people because they fought for their freedom. this happened in countries which are now members of the european union; countries which today are together with us. we in the european parliament will never forget the past. it is our duty to safeguard those values which are so dear to all of us. in europe we enjoy our daily human right of freedom of thought because of their highest sacrifice.
madam president! i think the european union's plan is the right one, because our aid must be directed to two areas. the first area is improving safety. the second area is to improve the living conditions of the population. progress in the first area safety can be said to improve the living conditions of the population, while progress in the second area improvement of living conditions is conducive to improving safety. but i think we should keep asking ourselves if this aid is effective. my task would be much more effective if we could count on the support of the countries around central asia. i would particularly encourage the european union, mrs ashton and minister malmström to engage with russia and tajikistan, because they are countries that can be very helpful, especially in terms of logistics and transport of goods for the population.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in afghanistan is the most important issue facing international institutions today, and especially the european union, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this challenge cannot be met without three elements: first, the failure of a very ambitious, two-year military mission, which must be followed by a breakthrough in the fight against al-qaeda and the conversion of some of the taliban commanders to the government; second, a stable pakistan and the entire region, including india - this is also the second challenge, which is crucial - and third, the issue of building civil society. i remind you that 30 years of permanent war is a huge problem. this is an uneducated society. over 90% are illiterate. so we need a lot of social support to build the rule of law, good governance, social welfare. i would like to say that the number of children who are in these schools has already increased from 700 000 to 7 000 000, and therefore one of the key issues facing mrs ashton is first and foremost the effective financial assistance for the building of civil society in afghanistan.
in writing. steps must be taken to improve the situation in afghanistan. in particular, training of police, military, judicial and educational staff and the fight against the production and trafficking of drugs are important. this will allow the stabilization of the social system in afghanistan. there is also a clear need to increase the military and police presence and to intensify efforts in the area bordering pakistan to prevent the flow of arms and drugs between these countries. it is worth thinking about the future direction of afghanistan's economy so that the people of afghanistan can abandon poppy cultivation and the opium trade. in short, military and police action should be accompanied by civilian action: support for afghan state-building and development aid.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. belarus is a complicated partner for the eu. i would like to begin this debate by explaining why the council adopted its decision in november on eu relations with belarus. i know that this is a matter of great interest to many members. in discussing this, we focused on two important aspects. on the one hand, the eu wanted to send a clear signal that we are dissatisfied with the lack of positive developments in recent months. on the other hand, we want to define the next steps in the dialogue with belarus, with the aim of encouraging minsk to take action in a number of areas. the result was, i think, a well-balanced decision which takes account of these aspects. it contains three main elements. first, we are extending the sanctions while suspending the travel restrictions for almost all the individuals concerned. the president of the republic of belarus is the head of the central electoral commission of the republic of belarus. secondly, we are open to the possibility of visa facilitation and readmission between the eu and belarus. thirdly, there is the prospect of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and belarus. this of course requires progress towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the commission has been asked to do some preparatory work based on these action plans, which were developed in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. in the discussions we took into account that the situation in belarus is better than it was a year and a half ago, although some steps have been taken backwards. the fact that a student was suspended from university after participating in a voluntary meeting within the framework of the eastern partnership is a very serious example of this. the transition from an authoritarian society to democracy - and this is something many members of this house know very well - is gradual. it will take time for belarus and there will be many obstacles along the way. that's why we need your full support. the global financial crisis is indeed creating opportunities for influence. the belarusian economy is on its knees and russia is no longer ready to pay the bill. in the energy sector, low gas prices are a thing of the past. can we then use this situation to encourage a different development in belarus? yes, there is no other way but dialogue. we must help to strengthen the cautious move towards greater openness. we must consider the effectiveness of sanctions policy. last year's decision to suspend visa restrictions after minsk released the last prisoners in august 2008 contributed to some progress in the dialogue. the use of sanctions is an important means of pressure on the european union. at the same time, the commission has taken several steps towards cooperation with belarus, which is part of the eastern partnership. our support for belarus within the international monetary fund has also been a step in a positive development. these are the conditions and now we must proceed in a wise and sensible way. the decision to extend the suspension of the visa ban list was a signal that we are serious about rewarding the positive steps taken. if we continue in this direction, we can take another step forward. at the moment, the discussions are focusing on two possible options. the first is the development of a formal contractual relationship and the second is the possibility of visa facilitation and readmission agreements. the position adopted by the council has laid the foundations for more concrete reflection on these issues. a partnership and cooperation agreement could mean that we formalise the relationship between the eu and belarus in a new way. this is a way of reconciling conditionality with our various means of pressure within the framework of a legally binding agreement. a partnership and cooperation agreement would also allow belarus to participate fully in the bilateral part of the eastern partnership. with regard to the visa facilitation, the idea is that it should be aimed at ordinary people, the general public, rather than at the leadership level. this would provide an important opportunity to promote contacts between civil society and citizens in belarus and in the eu. this could be a decisive factor in opening up and influencing belarusian society. this is in line with the objective of the eastern partnership. there is a link between visa facilitation and readmission. this should not be a major problem, because here belarus has shown that it can cooperate in border control issues. belarus is strategically located on the eu's eastern border. we therefore have an interest in a belarus which is modernising, developing and taking steps towards a democratic and free country. the importance of having democratic neighbours is a cornerstone of our security strategy. we will work to ensure that our values of democracy, market economy and respect for human rights are reflected in belarus. there is a clear parallel here with the way we develop partnerships with various countries in both the east and the south. i would like to conclude by stressing that we must of course continue to set clear conditions in our relations with belarus. the country must continue to move forward. president lukashenko's repressive policies must be replaced by more democracy and more tolerance. the rule of law must be respected. this message is conveyed in all the bilateral contacts we have between the member states and belarus. we need dialogue to make our demands work. that is why we in the council have also welcomed the increased contacts to strengthen democratic change. we will continue to develop our support for the democracy movement and civil society working for reforms and european integration in belarus. we are very grateful for the european parliament's strong support and commitment to this work.
member of the commission. − mr president, dear colleagues, council president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to discuss with you today our very important but also our very challenging relationship with belarus. i think it is important because belarus lies at a crossroads on our continent; and it is challenging because belarus’ own choices for its own future, and for its relationship with the eu, remain unclear. it still remains to be seen what they will be, so we will have to go on working with them. over the last two years, the european union has sought gradually to engage with belarus and to encourage further reforms, to build on the, i have to say, modest measures taken so far. i am convinced that the most productive approach to belarus will be one based on pragmatism. our engagement with that country needs to reflect positive steps by belarus itself, but we also have to show at least some flexibility. we have signalled clearly that we would like to see belarus take its place as a fully fledged participant in the european neighbourhood policy, and that the bilateral track of the eastern partnership can be opened to belarus if it shows through sustained action its wish to make irreversible steps towards democratic reform. in the mean time we have shown our goodwill in a number of important ways. a number of eu high-level visits to belarus this year helped strengthen political exchanges. we launched a dialogue on human rights issues in june 2009. the commission is engaged in a growing number of technical dialogues with belarus on issues of mutual interest. last month, for instance, the external relations council decided to extend existing restrictive measures, notably the visa ban and the assets freeze, till october 2010, given the lack of significant progress on human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, to encourage democratic progress, the council also extended the suspension of the restrictive measures. and the council also took two further decisions to encourage belarus to stay on the path of reforms. i very much welcome that the commission can now start working on the visa facilitation issue, and on a shadow enp action plan, the ‘joint interim plan’. these steps provide an incentive for moves towards democracy in belarus, which i am confident will be well understood on the one hand by the government, but on the other hand particularly by the people. the joint interim plan will be developed with both the authorities and civil society in belarus, and i hope it will open the door to deeper dialogue with belarus, including on delicate political issues. my services are preparing recommendations with a view to negotiating directives on visa facilitation and readmission agreements. visa facilitation is a priority for the belarusian people, and i would like to see more belarusians visiting the european union, travelling freely, studying and doing business. but naturally the final decision on the negotiation directives will lie with the council. in addition, the commission is prepared to increase the allocations of financial assistance to belarus for the period of 2010-2013. we have proposed a package of macro-financial assistance worth eur 200 million, for which we are seeking the approval of parliament. the commission is supporting the idea of an eib including belarus in the bank’s new mandate. i really hope this will go further. however, if belarus wishes to come closer to the eu, it is clear it must show this through its actions. there must be an end to political prisoners and politically motivated prosecutions. reform of the electoral legislation in line with osce/odihr recommendations is sorely needed. the liberty of the press, freedom of speech and of assembly should be permitted and become the norm. the european union also encourages belarus to abolish or declare a moratorium on the death penalty. we call for improved conditions for ngos, civil society and human rights activists. all these steps could play their part in accelerating the development of a closer partnership between belarus and the european union. in conclusion, therefore, our offer to belarus is clear. the european union is ready to work closely with minsk and support its political and economic development. but we would welcome significant positive steps from the belarus leadership which would allow us to develop our relationship in the same way as we do with other eastern partners if they play their part.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, why has my political group insisted on having the resolution after the debate? not only to express our support for the decision taken by the council – because this is a wise decision and a proper decision and i agree with both your arguments – but the main reason is the increase in repression that has happened in belarus quite recently. the resolution will refer to all those cases and, if any are abandoned during the drafting of the resolution, you may be sure they will be proposed as an amendment, either by the epp in written form or by me in oral form tomorrow. there is another issue which has been revealed by the media only today, namely a new draft law prepared by alexander designed to totally control the internet, as in china or even in north korea. i think that we should also refer to that. why are these issues happening in belarus? my private opinion is that it is partly due to the unconsidered – let me say, unwise – visits by prime minister silvio berlusconi, who met alexander lukashenko and praised him as a democratically elected leader but did not find time to meet with the opposition, and also, a little earlier, by the president of lithuania, who has invited lukashenko to lithuania, in an ill-considered way, i would say. finally, let me refer to this morning’s speech by sergei kovalev who said, citing sakharov, that the western world should offer and demand. this is the issue. we should offer deep cooperation with belarus, but we should also demand from the belarus authorities real progress in the area of human rights, democracy and freedom.
mr. chairman, please! i've been listening to our debate, and i feel like we're not talking enough about the main goal that it's supposed to bring us. it is free elections in belarus. we should always pay attention to them. as democratically elected members of parliament in our own countries, we cannot ignore this primary objective. i'm sure that in the opposition camp and in the power camp, many people are waiting for us to talk about free elections. they're waiting for that signal, too. i know this from experience. they deserve a clear and unambiguous answer. we are fighting for free elections in belarus and for belarus to be a free partner in europe. yesterday we were able to obtain a statement from the commissioner on the sarkozy plan, for which i thank her very much. i have one more idea today, that the commissioner should make it clear that until there are free elections in belarus, there will be no political contacts with that country in areas over which she has influence, except for the opposition, which will not be ignored. you can say that publicly. we'll be very grateful to you. it'll be our christmas present.
the experiment of unfreezing relations between the union and belarus is still yielding unclear results. political pressure from the european union is therefore a necessary condition for maintaining the very poorly defined course of change in minsk. opening the channels of communication with the authorities must go hand in hand with the rejection of the undemocratic parliament in minsk. we must also be scrupulous in ensuring that free belarusians do not feel abandoned, which is why recklessly skipping meetings with opposition representatives is extremely irresponsible. minsk must know that our policy has one goal - democracy in belarus. political change will only be possible if we ensure belarusians have access to free information. the project that needs support today is primarily belsat tv, which has been broadcasting the only belarusian-language programme for two years with growing interest among belarusians, providing access to uncensored information about the situation in the country.
mr. chairman, please! we are in a situation that indicates a certain schizophrenia in terms of contacts with belarus. well, european leaders are talking to the belarusian president and government, who is an emanation of this parliament and this system. and that's good. and we don't want to talk to a parliament that is elected in bad elections, that is not free, that is not transparent, because we have our own rules. this schizophrenia has to end, and we have to make that clear. the last moment to say what the policy is towards belarus is next year's local elections. either they will be held according to the rules we accept and that is the signal for a serious opening, or they will not be held in this way and we simply have to stop worrying about opening up to belarus, because it is clear that mr lukashenko knows what he wants, and we do not know what we want. but mr berlusconi is the one who is giving himself credit, because if for him the ideal of leadership is what lukashenko does, then that is the model that impresses him and one can only break his hands and express regret that such a leader sits among the 27 leaders of the european union.
the need for youth and cultural exchanges between the union and belarus was discussed. i'm afraid that's going to be very difficult. on december 3, tatiana szapućko, a spokeswoman for the opposition organization young front, was removed from the list of students of the faculty of law of the belarusian state university. and what was she written off for? for participating in the eastern partnership forum in brussels. the university authorities considered that she had left without their permission and for this she was expelled from the university. perhaps for a woman in this country it is not so dangerous, but for men expelled from university in belarus the consequences can be more painful, because military service in belarus is considered a punishment, a substitute for imprisonment. there are young soldiers, like franek wieczorka, head of the youth wing of the belarusian youth front, ivan szyla, also from the young front organization, who are persecuted during military service, where they are cut off from access to information and this is treated as a punishment. we should fight this and we should support those who are punished in this way.
in writing. in the debate on human rights in belarus and on the decision by member states to extend until october 2010 the sanctions against certain representatives of the belarusian regime, it should be noted that the situation in belarus is gradually changing. the council conclusions of 17 november 2009 stated that new opportunities for dialogue and deeper cooperation between the european union and belarus have emerged. in order to encourage the reform of the belarusian authorities, member states agreed to the temporary lifting of the sanctions on the freedom of movement of senior representatives of the belarusian authorities. the european commission is preparing directives to facilitate the acquisition of eu visas by belarusians and a readmission agreement. nevertheless, it must not be forgotten that human rights in belarus continue to be violated and the hopeful positive steps taken since october 2008, such as the release of most political prisoners and the authorization of the distribution of two independent newspapers, remain insufficient. the use of the death penalty remains a flagrant violation of human rights: belarus is the only european country still to use the death penalty, and in recent months there have been a number of death sentences. we therefore address our demands to the belarusian decision-makers to at least respect human rights, including a moratorium on the death penalty, the renewal of the electoral law and the guarantee of freedom of expression and the media.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the presidency attaches great importance to discussing with the european parliament the very problematic situation in the democratic republic of congo. the violations of human rights, and in particular the increase in sexual and gender-based violence, are extremely problematic. it is high time to discuss the situation in the country, not least in the light of the recent un report. the un panel's report emphasises that several armed groups operating in the country are supported by a well-organised network, partly based within the european union. i need not remind you of the eu's very longstanding commitment to the democratic republic of congo and the whole great lakes region. the eu has long sought to bring peace and stability to the country. it is important that this engagement continues, both politically and in the development context. i am sure that the commission will say more about this. our support is shown, among other things, by the appointment of the first eu special representative to work in the region in 1994. both military and civilian esdp instruments have been deployed. we have had operation artemis in ituri province, the bridging force through operation eufor before the 2006 elections, and eusec rd congo for defence reform and eupol rd congo for police reform. against this background, there are some good signs as well as some bad. diplomatic relations between the democratic republic of the congo and rwanda have been re-established. it's very welcome. peace agreements were signed in 2008 and 2009 with most armed groups in the east of the country and are to be implemented. the situation is unstable in many ways. many armed groups in the east are being integrated into the army, and the process of integration is marked by uncertainty. as of mid-2012, he was the commander of the fdlr's armed wing in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo. they are directly responsible for civilian casualties and enormous human suffering. meanwhile, armed groups are re-emerging in other parts of the country. the eastern part of the country remains a zone of violations of international law and human rights. there is widespread murder, rape, and sexual violence. these crimes are spreading at an alarming rate across the country, despite president kabila's so-called "zero tolerance" policy. the illegal exploitation of natural resources is another major problem. it is important that the country's rich mineral resources are placed under legitimate national control, both as a source of much-needed revenue for the state and to curb the financial support of illegal armed groups. the council also expressed concern at the preparation and organisation of the planned local elections. management problems, lack of transparency and violations of civil and political rights are serious obstacles to the process of democratisation. the council has taken a firm stance on the serious violations of international law and human rights in north and south kivu, given that there are still many major problems which give rise to deep concern. the council has recently condemned these acts in its conclusions and stressed that the government of the democratic republic of the congo must ensure that those responsible are brought to justice without exception. the eu is determined to continue contributing to peace, stability and development for the people of the country. in this context, security sector reform is crucial for the stabilisation of the country. all actors in this sector, including the congolese authorities, must strive to ensure that the common interests of security sector reform are truly united. we must also promote continued and concrete improvements in regional relations through stronger political and economic partnerships between the countries of the region. i can assure you that the council and the european union remain committed to the democratic republic of congo and are concerned about its future. we will continue our broad engagement in the country and continue to speak out about cases of violations of international law and human rights. here we are very grateful for the constructive and persistent role played by the european parliament, and i look forward to hearing your views in this debate.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago the situation in goma, besieged by cndp troops led by laurent nkunda, was the main concern of the congolese authorities and the international community. everything was done to avoid the worst. promoting a political agreement, first between the drc and rwanda, and then between the congolese government, the cndp and the other armed groups, helped in the short term to defuse the trigger for an explosion of violence whose destabilising potential remains intact today. untouched because the underlying causes were dealt with superficially and in pure short-term political logic. faced with only bad solutions, the international community chose the least serious; it's not a criticism, just a fact, a finding. the international community and the european union could not decide to send a protection force. the monuc reinforcements requested for over a year are just beginning to arrive. the recent report of the un independent expert group and the human rights watch organization make a damning assessment of the current situation that cannot be ignored or ignored. now is the time to address these root causes, to address them, and to consider lasting solutions. but this requires the cooperation of everyone, first of all the congolese and rwandan governments, then monuc and the united nations, and then the rest of the international community and the european union. there is no doubt that the political and diplomatic rapprochement between rwanda and the drc can be beneficial for the stability of the region and, if there is a will on both sides, can lead to peaceful coexistence and mutually beneficial cooperation within a revitalized cepgl. however, this is only the beginning of a long and difficult road ahead. the fdlr issue is at the heart of the problem, along with all the related issues that complicate the situation: the illegal exploitation of natural resources; the lack of protection for minorities; impunity in a vast area of non-state, where the public power is not only unable to ensure control of the territory but whose representatives are often part of the problem. the rwandan-drc agreement has temporarily neutralized the cndp and the unacceptable demands of laurent nkunda. the agreement simply resulted in nkunda being replaced by bosco ntaganda, who was more malleable and ready for any compromise, in exchange for immunity in violation of all international provisions on crimes against humanity, which neither rwanda nor the drc has the right or the position to grant. to date, the cndp has been hastily integrated into an inefficient and dysfunctional army, such as the fardc; in addition, the fardc has been accused of using the fardc to facilitate the recruitment and use of armed fighters, including by providing them with weapons and ammunition. the lack of adequate and calibrated monuc support for military operations against the fdlr, and the lack of response to the demands of the rwandan-speaking minorities, are factors that risk creating even more serious problems than we faced a year ago - problems that neither rwanda nor the drc will be able to handle. against this background, the situation has hardly improved: the humanitarian crisis continues without any clear signs of improvement, as do the violations of human rights, the abhorrent phenomenon of violence and even sexual atrocities, the impunity for all kinds of crimes, the plundering of natural resources. the scale of this endless tragedy is only to be seen in the reports of the united nations and human rights watch which i have mentioned. it is clear that the actions aimed at rendering the fdlr incapable of harm must continue, but not at any price, not without first putting everything in place to minimise the risks that military pressure entails for innocent civilians. this requires better planning, refocusing priorities and enhanced capacity of monuc to ensure the protection of the population, the first task of its mandate. the conditions under which monuc can operate must also be clear and unambiguous. there is no question here of calling for monuc to be withdrawn or disengaged. the fact that the un mission is leaving the country at this early stage would be catastrophic, because it would make the vacuum even more empty. the recent events in ecuador, which are above all a further symptom of the congolese malaise, demonstrate this. it is clear that we must also put an end to the political and economic collusion that the fdlr continues to enjoy in the region and elsewhere in the world, in our member states among others. the fdlr's fight is not a political fight, but a criminal action whose first victim is the congolese population, and thus it must be treated like all those who are directly or indirectly associated with it. that is why we must be more firm in our approach to all forms of trafficking. at the same time, beyond the process of demobilization, disarmament, reintegration, reintegration and repatriation (ddrrr), greater clarity from the rwandan and congolese authorities towards those who are not necessarily criminals is needed. however, much of the problem must also be solved in the drc. i am thinking of course of the local roots of the conflict. the 23 march agreements must be fully implemented, or else the frustrations of the local population will sooner or later take over. this is a prerequisite for the success of stabilisation efforts and the desire to revive economic activity in the kivus. the role of the international community can then be truly a positive one. however, beyond the kivus, i also think of the enormous mess that has become over the last twenty years, the drc - a country where almost everything has to be done again, starting with the reconstruction of the state whose absence is at the heart of all the problems. to do this, a few things are crucial. first, we must consolidate democracy. i am thinking of course of the local, legislative and presidential elections due in 2011. elections are an element of democracy, but we must not forget the need to continue to support the institutions and political forces in a dialectical dimension with the opposition, without which we would not be in a truly open political system. the second element is certainly the need to deepen good governance. while it is true that the scale of the problems means that the drc cannot do everything at once, it is clear that it requires a strong political will to have a chance of success. parliament has mentioned the question of impunity. this is a good example, because it is a question of political will which underlies the whole question of the assertion of the rule of law. the problem is that things can't be done in isolation. the rule of law also requires security sector reform and real progress in economic governance. the scale of the challenges requires long-term policies. however, this should not be an excuse for not taking more immediate action. i am thinking in particular of the issue of sexual violence and human rights which parliament has highlighted. political will can play a decisive role in this and the commitment of president kabila to zero tolerance should be welcomed. now we must apply it. the commission, which is already doing a great deal in this area (support for justice, assistance to victims), is ready to continue its support for the drc. in this context, i also wished for closer cooperation between the icc and the commission on the ground in the fight against sexual violence. consolidation of the democratic system, good governance, political will: these are the key elements on which we would like to build our partnership with the drc on an equal footing.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. almost every journalist who writes about africa would like to be joseph conrad's successor. so journalists tend to focus on the negative, because they're looking for the dark side. but the congo doesn't have to be a dark place. it can be a normal country. there are normal countries in africa where natural resources are used for the good of the people, public authorities are concerned with the common good, children go to school, and sex is associated with love rather than rape and violence. i believe that the key to success in kiwi, or in the congo, is the quality of governance. without democratic, just, fair and effective government, there can be no peace and justice. without responsible power, wealth serves the few, leaders care about themselves, schools are empty, and rape becomes commonplace. i remember the optimism of 2006. i was an observer myself during the elections and we were all happy that after 40 years this great and important country was holding democratic elections, but our optimism turned out to be premature. it's hard not to ask why this happened, why this election didn't lead to a better life for the congolese. i think it's the money issue that the minister and the commissioner were talking about. the illegal use of resources and funding to finance weapons to continue and fuel the conflict. if we can stop it, we'll be closer to the target.
acting president of the council. we've been getting very conflicting reports on this. both official reports and press reports have shown that there is no evidence that these horrendous events actually occurred. since we have no certain indications and there is a lot of evidence that it did not actually happen but that it was a fraud, the council has neither the possibility nor the competence to act in this area.
president-in-office of the council. − the council reaffirms the primacy of fundamental and human rights as recognised in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. the council is – and will remain – committed to the prevention and eradication of all forms of degrading and discriminatory treatment. i would like to note that questions concerning the protection of minority rights are also dealt with by the council of europe under its framework convention for the protection of national minorities. the issues raised by mr czarnecki are currently being examined by the competent organs of the council of europe. in particular, under council directive 2000/43/ec of 29 june 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, all persons are protected against discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin, regardless of their legal status. the scope of legal protection of this directive includes the areas of employment, social protection, education and access to goods and services. it is the responsibility of the european commission to monitor the implementation of, and compliance with, european law in the member states. finally, in the stockholm programme approved by the european council on 10 and 11 december this year, the need for an additional proposal as regards vulnerable groups is assessed in the light of the experience acquired from the application by the member states of the 2000 hague convention on the international protection of adults, to which they will become parties in the future.
i would like to thank the minister, the commissioner, for his reply, and especially for the emphasis on the council's commitment to combating all forms of discrimination against national minorities in the european union, including the polish minority in lithuania. that's a very important statement. thank you for that! i would like to emphasize that we are unfortunately dealing with systematic actions of the lithuanian authorities regarding education and bilingual names in different localities and at different administrative levels. so this is a very important matter and i would ask the council to monitor this matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the crisis that has hit the european union in recent months has shown clearly how important the internal market is for the functioning of the union as a whole. we will not complete this without introducing a certain freedom of movement for people, which is guaranteed, among other things, by the directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. that is why it is so sad and worrying that four years after the adoption of this directive, it is still not applicable in four countries, and none of the member states has met the deadline set in this directive, which is 20 october 2007. so my first question to the european commission is: has the commission not been too passive over the last four years and what exactly has the commission done to ensure that all countries have transposed this directive on time? secondly, i would like to ask when the commission will publish an evaluation report on the transposition of the directive and what will be the basis for the conclusions in this report? the services directive should be implemented by the end of the year. we in parliament already know that many countries will not be able to vote on the legislation by that date. i would like to ask what the commission sees as the connection between these two documents. and finally, a very important issue for the country that i represent, the issue of nurses' migration. the directive harmonises the training requirements for nurses. i would like to ask what specific action the commission has taken to help nurses from central and eastern european countries, including poland?
mr. chairman, please! if we want our citizens to be mobile - and this is what the european economy requires - they must be sure that when they obtain their qualifications in, say, poland, they will have no problems with recognition in any member state. i understand the scale of the problem. the 800 regulated professions mentioned by the commissioner, together with the numerous regulations of these professions at national and regional level, represent a considerable challenge for the administrations of the member states. but the challenge for our citizens who have problems with recognition of qualifications is first and foremost to find themselves in the complexities of the whole system. this is confirmed by the data from solvit. and so the problem of timely implementation of this directive is only one dimension of our discussion. however, we should not forget that many problems arise because of a lack of trust in education and training systems in other member states. we lack the cooperation, resources and commitment of national administrations. the introduction of the european professional charter is a good solution, as we had the opportunity to discuss in the previous term of office of the european parliament. however, the purpose of the card is to facilitate, not hinder, the movement of people. its creation should not become - and i would like to stress this very strongly - another barrier to the internal market. ladies and gentlemen! the deadline for the implementation of the services directive is less than ten days away. i mention this because it is also important in the context of our debate today. the two directives are complementary in some respects. the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is not a success, and i would therefore like to make a further appeal for the work on both directives to be stepped up, without which we will not make progress in the internal market.
author. − mr president, three years ago a major reform of european cohesion policy was introduced taking into account the unprecedented enlargement of the union and new emerging challenges. it was not by chance that, back in 2005 and 2006, the top priorities for european cohesion policy were: the lisbon strategy, innovation and competiveness, climate change, energy security and efficiency, water efficiency, investment in new skills, attractiveness of territories for young people, and quality of life. it is because we have understood that the mission of cohesion policy is to anticipate change, not to follow it, that we have put on the cohesion policy agenda for 2007-2013 all those priorities which we see today in the commission’s europe 2020 agenda. that is why, more than two years ago, the regions 2020 analytical report was published. the purpose was to know what the cohesion policy priorities should be after 2013. today we are well prepared to face the future. a year ago the policy put all its assets at the disposal of the european recovery package, thereby also providing the essential link between the exit strategy from a real economic crisis on the one hand and long-term sustainable growth and structural transformation on the other. but our oral question is about the future. in years to come the europe we live in will be in need of strong collective action to respond to the expectations of its citizens, who are today informed citizens, fully aware of how much depends on choices made by policymakers. those expectations are confirmed by public opinion polls. jacques delors once said that the european single market is about competition that stimulates, about cooperation that makes us stronger and about solidarity that makes us united. european cohesion that makes the single market work is delivered by the european regional policy, which is today based exactly on this triple foundation: competitiveness, cooperation and solidarity. for years we have talked about the need to unlock, to mobilise, the development potential of all european regions and cities. experience and logic clearly show that this mobilisation turns out to be most effective and efficient if pursued through the direct engagement of subnational levels of european governments. the european regional policy has already passed the subsidiarity test. subsidiarity works for europe. the 2006 reform of cohesion policy has made it a modern place-based policy founded on a balance between equity and efficiency, between bottom-up and top-down approaches, between common strategic european objectives and local flexibility. there is a need to move further on those issues, to continue the reform of policy governance, but certain principles should not be abandoned. the new treaty has cemented the new understanding of european subsidiarity already deeply rooted in the cohesion policy, that is subsidiarity extended to local and regional level of governance. we can do more on it, especially with regard to the local level. those who suggest that cohesion policy can be limited to brussels and national level either do not know the european reality, or do not understand that excluding local and regional europe from the pursuit of common european objectives is economically at best unwise and politically dangerous. cohesion is a notion that excludes exclusion. for political, economic, social and legitimacy reasons, cohesion policy must not be divisive: it should be a policy for all, as the internal market is, as the common currency is. all elements of this integration triangle – common market, common currency, cohesion – are mutually strengthening and interdependent. they are our common european public good. we policymakers have raised the stakes by promising to deliver. the challenges are well known; the eu 2020 strategy has been opened to public consultations. development policy with clear targets and tools is needed. cohesion policy is a policy for development that engages all levels of european governance working in concert for european citizens. to conclude, europe needs new energy to take care of its future, to renew itself in an assertive way. it is legitimate to ask where this energy could and should come from. for me the answer is clear. today this energy should come from below. today this energy can be released through the direct engagement of local and regional levels of european governance in the pursuit of common european objectives.
mr. chairman, please! today, cohesion policy is helping to develop road and rail infrastructure, especially in the new member states. this policy has created and will probably create many new jobs in the coming years. investments in environmental protection are also very important. when assessing the policy and its effectiveness, the key question is: what happens after 2013? the european parliament should make it clear that it does not agree to rationalizing cohesion policy. after 2013, cohesion policy should, in addition to these traditional actions and mechanisms, support research, science, development, innovation, the creation of modern jobs and the fight against climate change. cohesion policy should also extend its coverage to rural areas. it is important that it be implemented on a regional and macro-regional basis.
mr. chairman, please! the podkarpatie region, which i represent, is a wonderful, ambitious, hardworking people, a place where many vibrant companies operate, where modern centres such as the air force valley are being built, and at the same time it is one of the least developed areas of the european union. our problems are not due to a lack of will, but to structural and infrastructural constraints that we are trying to eliminate through various programmes. i would like to emphasize that as part of our activities we do not ask for charity, but for support of our initiatives. we also want to make europe's economy more competitive and to find solutions to help protect our climate. however, we want the shift in funding priorities to be gradual rather than drastic, as this would leave the weaker regions to their own devices. it is very important that the regions implement cohesion policy, because this is the best way to achieve results. i would also like to point out that cohesion policy has a very important message for citizens. it shows that europe is united and that it is worthwhile to participate in this unique project.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is a pillar of development policy. it is this policy that most strengthens the subjectivity of regions and local communities. in my opinion, we fall into two extremes. some would like to put too much into this policy, others too little. the most important objective of this policy is sustainable development in various areas. cohesion policy must be one, covering both urban and rural areas. let us remember that the union is very diverse after such a great enlargement. balancing the development opportunities is an important task. the challenges we face today are the economic crisis, the demographic challenge and, finally, climate change. one thing is certain: cohesion policy needs to be continued and adapted to the challenges of the present.
in writing. i am afraid that the provisions proposed by the commission - especially those concerning the abolition of objective 2 and the shift from the regional dimension of cohesion policy to a sectoral approach - could mean a return to the concept of a 'two-speed europe' and a widening of the economic and civilizational distance between 'old' and 'new' europe. such a model would be a departure from the integration of the whole of the 27 member states and from the idea of solidarity enshrined in article 3 of the lisbon treaty. this idea is at the heart of the whole cohesion policy, which is intended to lead to equal opportunities and to eliminate disparities between regions. the commission's proposal to increase the emphasis on research and development of new technologies is to be welcomed. this is the course europe needs. however, it is important to take into account the regions and countries for which the main concern is to achieve a level of employment that is in line with the eu average. keep in mind that there is more than an 11-fold difference in wealth between the richest and poorest areas of the eu. the main objective of the eu's cohesion policy must be to close these gaps. a new version of the document is currently being developed. i hope that the commission will take into account the votes cast in today's debate and those from across the european union and at different levels: local authorities, governments, associations and ngos. a good regional policy can only be pursued in close cooperation with the regions.
i have one announcement to make. it concerns a lady who has supported us in the european parliament for many years – mrs birgitte stensballe. she is, unfortunately, leaving us, and will retire on 1 january 2010. (the house accorded mrs stensballe a standing ovation.)
mr. chairman, please! i'm not sure we can discuss that point any further. i'm afraid it's too late for that, because we've already made a decision on this matter. it's hard to discuss that point again right now.
ladies and gentlemen! under procedure number 140, we can vote to remove this from the agenda. i would therefore like to hear from someone who is in favour of this proposal.
i'd like to hear your statement against this motion.
ladies and gentlemen! i'd like to have everyone's attention for a moment. we can't go on and on about this.
ladies and gentlemen! we've got all the attention. you know all the comments and you have the full picture. in accordance with rule 140 of the rules of procedure, i put this motion to the vote. we have a specific request that this matter not be discussed today. (parliament adopted the proposal)
ladies and gentlemen! mr. president schulz, please put your headphones on. i have a specific proposal. we'll get to that point in the second part of the vote. first we vote on the budget, and then we have a few extra items. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the european union.
we'll consider your request.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
we have a situation where we vote on different institutions and according to the rules we have to vote on each institution separately. there's no way to put it all together in one block. it's against procedure.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the council notes with satisfaction that parliament has confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting on 18 november earlier this year. together with the outcome of the council's second reading, we consider that parliament's second reading can be considered as a joint text of the two arms of the budgetary authority, in accordance with the new article 314 of the lisbon treaty. the council accepts this joint text and the president of the european parliament can therefore declare the budget finally adopted. i would point out, however, that the council considers that this budget should be signed by both parties as soon as you, mr president, declare it finally adopted, since the new treaty stipulates that both the council and parliament are responsible for this. the council regrets that this position has not been taken into account. that said, we do not in any way question what we have agreed. we hope, however, that by next year's budgetary procedure there will have been enough time to sort out these matters. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank once again the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr alain lamassoure, and the three rapporteurs, mr lászlo surján, mr vladimir maňka and mr jutta haug, for their constructive attitude throughout the budgetary procedure, which also shows the very good cooperation we have had in this work. i would like to conclude with a personal reflection. being chairman of the board is probably the best thing i'll ever be. it has been a great honour to serve europe in this way and i want to thank you for it. thank you so much. give it up.
ladies and gentlemen! as we have now completed this part of the vote, i too would like to thank and congratulate our rapporteurs, mr surjan and mr mance, and we had earlier the reports by mr böge and all those who worked on the budget. it was an extremely difficult budget. i also want to congratulate our colleagues and the whole parliament on the decision we have taken together. it's really a great result. congratulations to the guys! (laughter) (applause) i must now read to you some very important points which are connected with the extraordinary way in which this budget was adopted. this is very important because we have moved from the treaty of nice to the treaty of lisbon. it was a very difficult transition. we started with the treaty of nice and we are ending with the treaty of lisbon, which is why this declaration is necessary. you need to hear this statement. the 2010 budgetary procedure was exceptional. it was initiated in accordance with article 272 of the treaty establishing the european community, but its final stage was carried out after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. on 18 november 2009, the european parliament, the council and the european commission therefore decided to continue the budgetary procedure in accordance with the treaty establishing the european community, but also reached an agreement covering the outcome of the budgetary procedure, including the vote by parliament, which took place in full compliance with the multiannual financial framework. the president of the council has just confirmed on behalf of the council that he has approved the budget we have just voted on. this means that parliament and the council have reached agreement on a common text, respecting the principles and objectives of article 314. i note that the budgetary procedure which was initiated in accordance with article 272 of the treaty establishing the european community and continued in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has been completed in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the multiannual financial framework. the budgetary procedure can therefore be considered closed and the budget finally adopted. that's a very important statement. the next time, there will be no such complications, because the treaty of lisbon will be in force. i'm going to officially sign this document now. please, ladies and gentlemen! i would also like to add that the head of the committee on budgets is mr lamassoure, who has put a lot of work into this. i would also like to mention his name as someone who was very active.
there's a delegation from serbia at the gallery right now. we would like to extend a very warm welcome to her. please stand up so we can see you. (laughter) (applause)
i take this opportunity to wish you all the best for your three weeks of rest. we have big things to do next year. i would like to invite you all to a cocktail on 12 january 2010 to celebrate the new year and the beginning of the lisbon treaty, which is so important to us. so, i invite you all to january 12th!
madam president, the rationale of this amendment is to raise awareness of recent cases of repression in belarus. my oral amendment is just to add one more name – that of a young democratic activist who was kidnapped on 6 december this year – to the list of names listed in this amendment. so it will read as follows: after mentioning zmitser dashkevich, i would like to add ‘and yauhen afnahel on 6 december 2009’. this is just adding one more person to the list of those who are being harassed by the belarusian government.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the conciliation procedure resulted in an agreed level of expenditure satisfactory to parliament for the union's key objectives for the coming year. the agreements on the resources for the implementation of the european economic recovery plan, including energy projects, for which eur 1 980 million has been earmarked, are particularly important. eur 420 million will be allocated to broadband internet deployment, which will contribute to the lisbon strategy. the commission's administrative expenditure was substantially revised at the last minute following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the establishment of the european council as an institution of the union, the establishment of the office of the president of the european council and the establishment of an external service have implications for the budget of the union. the costs of the european council and the presidency, estimated at eur 23.5 million, will be covered by the 2009 savings, while the costs of the creation of the external service may exceed the eur 72 million currently in the 2010 budget reserve. the debate on 2010 spending will not end today. the funds in the reserve may prove insufficient and a budgetary adjustment will be necessary. it is therefore necessary to call on the member states to show responsibility and to allocate the necessary resources to enable the union to fulfil the new obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - we have adopted today the european union's budget for 2010 of almost €123 billion. every budget is a trade-off. many of us may feel the shortfall, but it is worth highlighting what the average citizen of the community will gain from the document adopted today. the european union is strengthening its energy security and promoting entrepreneurship, with particular attention to micro-enterprises. i am pleased that 20 million euros have been earmarked for the baltic sea strategy. it is true that the reserve will only be released when the european commission has submitted its proposals in writing, but i believe that this will happen as soon as possible. i was particularly pleased to see three projects of national importance included in the budget. i am thinking of the funding for the special olympics to be held in warsaw and athens, the scholarships for young people from the countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy programme and the creation of the chair of european civilization named after professor bronisław geremek at the college of europe in natolin.
in writing. - the resolution on belarus is an important signal from the european union and europe. we should show both the democratic opposition and the belarusian authorities, not only through such resolutions, that we do not agree with the violation of human rights, the prohibition of the registration of political parties, ngos or independent media. the european parliament cannot agree to the use of the death penalty, and belarus is the only european country that uses this type of punishment. we cannot ease sanctions against belarus unless there is significant progress towards democratization of the country. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the flagrant restrictions on freedom of expression, respect for human and civil rights and civil society organisations. the european parliament, made up of members from the 27 member states, is the expression of democracy and cooperation. the only actions we can and will support are democratic actions, because they are the foundation of the european union. we cannot agree to any other solution. i hope that the resolution on belarus is one of many things we will do. the belarusians expect it from us, but so does the whole of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. some people think that we shouldn't be dealing with this issue because the defense of gay rights is an unjustified extension of human rights. this is a misunderstanding. the universal declaration of human rights recognized that human rights include everyone and no one can be excluded. the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is nothing new. the problem is that not everyone is willing to accept that this kind of discrimination is a violation of human rights. there are voices in uganda and some african countries that our interest in this subject is a manifestation of neo-colonialism or that we are meddling in other people's affairs. that's another misunderstanding. we are talking about universal laws. this is not our vision. we respect the independence of uganda and other countries, but we cannot remain silent when instead of reducing discrimination, they try to expand it.
the author. − as europe celebrated the anniversary of the end of world war i on 11 november this year, azerbaijan sentenced journalists to several years in prison for daring to report the truth about corruption and unemployment in the country, officially accusing them of spreading hooliganism and terrorism. according to freedom house's ranking, azerbaijan has the status of a state without freedom. reporters without borders reports that azerbaijan ranks 146th out of 175 countries surveyed for freedom of speech. the economist intelligence unit's analysis of the country's political freedoms also provides some worrying signals. in this context, the azerbaijani authorities' refusal last year to grant licences to foreign media outlets such as the bbc and radio free europe should come as no surprise. i believe it is time for the eu to re-examine its approach to azerbaijan and, taking advantage of baku's participation in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, to put more pressure on the authorities there. i also join my political group's call for the unconditional release of imprisoned journalists and an adequate revision of azerbaijani law.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in azerbaijan, for a rather scathing and delicate criticism of the government, two people went to prison after receiving harsh sentences. what does that mean, "i'm not"? first, that this country has no good legal institutions and no intention of having them. second, there is an authoritarian system that is taking over ever-wider areas of political life. any concession is punishable. what can we do about it? surely we should intervene in every single instance of a violation of justice, which we do here. such interventions have often been successful. it's much harder to force institutional change. so far, the union's efforts in this direction have been unsatisfactory, partly because we are still tolerant of some tyrants and extremely vocal about others. the representatives of the memorial have spoken of this many times in this house. and part of the reason we're having trouble is that the process of getting out of authoritarianism is very difficult, very cumbersome, very time-consuming. this is a very pessimistic conclusion, but i conclude with this thought: we should not stop our efforts and consistently apply such pressure.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. azerbaijan is once again on the agenda of the european parliament. i'll remind you that we talked about it last term, we passed resolutions three times, including one about freedom of the press in this country. we also talked about the south caucasus, including azerbaijan. we care about this country and we have a lot of sympathy for this country that is trying to find its way, step by step, and is actually getting closer to the western world, rather than the eastern world. that's something to be appreciated. i think we look with great sympathy on this country, and on its authorities. but that kindness cannot prevent us from speaking out loud about things we do not like. surely a situation where two bloggers are locked up for talking about power, what they think, is something that should not happen. by supporting these pro-european tendencies of the azerbaijani authorities, which should be supported because there is a political debate going on in this country all the time, whether to be closer to the european union or closer to russia, we should support all those who want to be closer to the western world. but in supporting them, we have to speak up for the values that make this world - freedom of the media, freedom of expression is one of the fundamental values and it has to be spoken up. azerbaijan is certainly in a difficult situation as russia tries to rebuild its political, economic and political sphere of influence, but in supporting the azerbaijani authorities on their way to the eu, we must speak out about the irregularities.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to quote the text of article 47 of the constitution of azerbaijan: "everyone has the right to freedom of thought and expression". unfortunately, these are empty words written into a constitution that is not being followed. for more than five years, i have been a member of the commission for parliamentary cooperation between the european union and the countries of the south caucasus. i visited azerbaijan during every joint parliamentary session. there's a point about violating the principle of freedom of speech, about journalists, publishers, being thrown in jail, often on false charges, not being given medical care when they're sick. we have a case of a journalist who died because of a lack of medical attention. i had the opportunity to visit the azeri prisons. the standards there are far from what we are used to in europe. so it is good that we keep reminding that the principles written in the constitution should be followed in azerbaijan.
