madam president, the israeli attack on gaza is a war crime and a crime against humanity. it is tragic what is happening: 900 palestinians have already died, including many children, and thousands have been injured. we must demand an end to the attack on gaza. we must demand an end to the israeli blockade which has turned gaza into a concentration camp. so we join with all the people in all the countries and on all the continents who are protesting against the massacres, with the people in all the countries and on all the continents who are outraged, who are going out into the streets and saying 'enough with the crimes'! the european parliament and other responsible bodies of the european union must demand an immediate end to the attack on gaza and demand an immediate end to the israeli blockade.
the debate is closed.
the report by mr bastiaan belder, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and economic relations with the western balkans (2008/2149 (ini)) (a6-0489/2008) follows.
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs mairead mcguinness, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the common agricultural policy and world food security (2008/2153 (ini)) (a6-0505/2008) is reproduced below.
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs genowefa grabowska, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the prospects for developing civil dialogue under the lisbon treaty (2008/2067 (ini)) (a6-0475/2008) is reproduced below.
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs donata gottardi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on public finances in emu 2007-2008 (2008/2244 (ini)) (a6-0507/2008) follows.
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by barbara weiler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the transposition, application and enforcement of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising (2008/2114 (ini)) (a6-0514/2008) follows.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs weiler, for her report, the contents of which of course will be carefully considered by the commission, but also to thank her for the comments she made regarding this procedure. the commission fully agrees that it is now very important that member states adequately transpose the new concepts introduced by the directive on unfair commercial practices and that national authorities also contribute to uniform implementation of the directive right across the eu. as far as transpositions are concerned, two member states are still late: luxembourg and spain; the commission referred these cases to the court of justice in june last year. the commission also coordinated cooperation on transposition in order to avoid incorrect transpositions. nevertheless, some problems remain in a limited number of countries mainly because of their reluctance to comply with full harmonisation. for those cases the commission will not hesitate to launch infringement proceedings. the report mentions the need to protect not only consumers but also smes against unfair commercial practices. on this point the commission reminds the european parliament that a full harmonisation directive on unfair business-to-consumer practices was already a very ambitious proposal which would have failed if its scope had been extended to business-to-business unfair competition practices. it has been concluded from the consultation leading up to the proposal and from the deliberations in council that there was little support for extending the scope of the directive to cover business-to-business unfair commercial practices. as regards aggressive practices which were regulated for the first time at eu level through the directive on unfair commercial practices, it was considered that such practices occur almost exclusively in business-to-consumer relationships. misleading business-to-business practices are already covered by the directive concerning misleading and comparative advertising. such practices should continue to be regulated solely by this directive. as regards enforcement of consumer protection legislation, the commission will continue to coordinate enforcement actions through the consumer protection cooperation network. in this context the commission notes that parliament’s support for the ‘sweeps’ as an enforcement tool. the commission intends to further develop this mechanism and has planned a further sweep for later this year. further to the request from parliament, the commission is also pleased to add that the forthcoming second version of the consumer scoreboard will contain data gathered during the sweeps carried out so far. as the report mentions the need for information campaigns to raise consumer awareness of their rights, the commission would like to inform the members of its recent ‘is it fair?’ website which includes for example educational material on the blacklist of banned practices. to conclude, the commission would like to assure this house that it will continue to work closely with member states to ensure adequate and effective enforcement of the directives on unfair commercial practices and misleading comparative advertisement. the database containing national transposition measures and case-law will be set up this year and will serve as a useful tool in this respect.
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. (the president read out the rules of procedure, rule 45 (2)) (the president read out the rules of procedure, rule 45 (2)) (the president read out the rules of procedure, rule 45 (2)) (the president read out the rules of procedure, rule 45 (2)) (the president read out the rules of procedure, rule 45 (2)), which is the second part of rule 45 (2) which is the second part of rule 45 (2) which is the third part of rule 45 (2) which is the fourth part of rule 45 (2) which is the fourth part of rule 45 (2)) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr pedro guerreiro, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the cfp and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management (2008/2178 (ini)) (a6-0485/2008) follows.
the rapporteur. − the commission's communication, with its wide range of issues, is part of the debate on the possible reform of the common fisheries policy by 2012. this report, which was approved by the committee on fisheries of the european parliament, makes a number of advances which we consider important in this debate. fisheries are a vital activity for ensuring food and survival for humans, and this is the primary objective of any fisheries policy. in this connection, it is important to stress the importance of fishing in the eez waters of each member state for its sovereignty and independence, particularly at the food level. the common fisheries policy (cfp) should promote the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries sector, ensuring its socioeconomic viability and the sustainability of fisheries resources, and guaranteeing the public supply of fish and food sovereignty and security, the maintenance of jobs and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen. in view of its own objectives, a cfp should not be subordinated to other community policies which have been defined in the meantime. that is to say, a fisheries policy is not and cannot be a policy for the oceans or the marine environment. the first and foremost task of fisheries management, as an activity exploiting a self-renewable resource, is to control the total fishing effort in order to ensure maximum sustainable catch. a fisheries policy must start from the assumption of the interdependence between the well-being of fishing communities and the sustainability of the ecosystems of which they are an integral part, in particular by recognising the specificity and importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing. the implementation of an ecosystem-based approach to marine management necessarily requires multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral action across a range of measures, which go far beyond and are ancillary to those adopted in the fisheries sector, which have an impact on marine ecosystems. rather than guesses based on preconceived ideas, the proposal for an ecosystem analysis of fisheries resource assessment should be based on validated scientific data. on the other hand, it is necessary to recognise that there are important differences between the various marine areas and resources that occur in each, the various fleets and gears used and their impacts on ecosystems, which requires diversified, specific and appropriate fisheries management measures, compensating fishermen, where necessary, for their socio-economic consequences. in order to ensure the sustainability of resources, fishing activity and local communities, we consider it essential that member states exercise their sovereignty over the 12 miles of the territorial sea and that the area corresponding to the eez of the outermost regions be considered an exclusive access zone. the proposals concerning access to resources, which aim to promote a system of individual transferable quotas, with the consequence of concentrating fishing activity and individual appropriation of fishing rights, are worrying in this respect. it should also be noted that a policy which encourages the indiscriminate slaughter of vessels, which does not take into account the specificities of the fleets, the resources, the consumption needs of each member state and their socioeconomic impact, is inappropriate and unjustified. finally, i would like to stress that the sharp decline in incomes in the sector is due not only to restrictions on fishing activity but above all to the stagnation/reduction of prices at first sale, accompanied by the increase in production costs (gasoline and petrol).
this point is considered closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the transposition and application of directive 2002/73/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 23 september 2002 amending council directive 76/207/eec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions (2008/2039 (ini)) (a6-0491/2008) follows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, it is regrettable that this is not a time for a deep reflection on the consequences of the implementation, under the pretext of the euro, of neoliberal and monetarist policies which have contributed to the serious social situation we are experiencing, to the increase in inequalities, unemployment, precarious and low-paid work and poverty. it is unacceptable that ideological dogmas such as price stability and the irrational criteria of the stability pact are maintained as a pretext for resorting to privatisation and the disempowerment of the social functions of the state, which also includes the thesis of the minimum state and the greater efficiency of the private sector, seeking to impose the acceptance of the so-called wage moderation which translates into low nominal wage increases and even a decrease in real wages, as the portuguese case unfortunately demonstrates. we cannot accept the european central bank's status as a false autonomy, which drags down decisions to cut interest rates, which keeps the euro overvalued only to protect the countries with the most developed economies and the most powerful economic and financial groups, thus aggravating the tragedies of the weakest economies and the populations with the weakest economic resources. this policy of the european central bank has led to the contraction of the european economy, making it clear that further cuts in reference interest rates are needed. while the purchasing power of workers, pensioners and pensioners has declined over the last ten years, the profits of economic and financial groups have become the highest in the last thirty years. and that's why the joy and the satisfaction we hear here. even now, in the crisis situation they have created, what they are doing is nationalising the losses and then privatising the profits, while the workers, the micro and small entrepreneurs, the retired and the unemployed suffer the consequences of the crisis, entitled at best to a few crumbs. look at what is happening in the financial sector, where some banks have already increased spreads more than once since the financial crisis began and where the margin charged has doubled in the space of a year, further penalizing new lending. we therefore insist on the urgency of a real break with these neoliberal and monetarist policies, putting an end to the stability pact, the tax havens and the false autonomy of the european central bank. we therefore insist on the need to increase the community budget significantly on the basis of a fair distribution of income and wealth, so that there is a policy of economic and social cohesion and not insistence on measures that are more of the same, namely 'save who can', which allows the richest to become richer and the poorest poorer, as the worsening inequalities and divergences in the economies of the euro zone clearly demonstrate. we therefore insist on the need to support production, micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, to promote quality public services, to facilitate credit and to improve the purchasing power of households, not only of the most disadvantaged but also of the middle classes, in order to create more jobs and to reduce poverty and misery for millions of people in our countries.
in writing. the air agreements between the european community and the united states of america (usa) originally relate to and are based on the liberalisation of air transport. such agreements at eu level (or rather, by the european community the only legal entity and its single community market, which is intended to be fully liberalised) seek to supersede bilateral agreements between different member states and the us. as in other resolutions previously adopted by the european parliament, we stress that we will obviously be the first to take steps to ensure a high level of civil aviation safety and to minimise the economic burden resulting from the duplication of regulatory supervision of aircraft. however, we have two important safeguards: (1) that these processes are not intended and expected to create and facilitate the conditions for further liberalization of air transport by means of harmonization of standards; (2) that these processes do not promote harmonization under safety standards and rules, particularly where safety, burden minimization and liberalization are combined, where profit and concentration are the main considerations. we believe that air transport must be defended as a public service, provided by public companies in each country, which guarantee the quality and safety of the services provided to citizens.
in writing. the future of foreign transport policy requires good relations between the european community and the united states of america. the commission has also proposed that the european union and the united states agree to establish a joint aviation safety regulatory cooperation agreement. the aim of this agreement is to facilitate the exchange of goods and services in the aeronautical sector by limiting as far as possible the duplication of assessment, testing and control tasks to the major regulatory differences between the two parties. we also hope to be creating a flexible daily operating framework which will allow technical problems arising from its application to be solved through a system of continuous cooperation and consultation. this agreement is another fundamental step towards the external dimension of european transport policy, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we agree with several aspects of the report, namely: - the change in policy has resulted in a loss of market opportunities for european union producers and has led to an increased dependence on imported food products from third countries, produced using very different production standards, which has placed community agricultural products in a situation of inequality; - concern about the escalating costs of agricultural production factors, which can lead to a lower use and reduction of agricultural production, contributing to the food crisis in europe and the world; - the need for policy instruments to prevent these sharp and harmful price fluctuations; - concern about the increasing concentration of the food retail market, which has created monopoly situations, and the need for alternative solutions in negotiations with retailers, in favour of small producers. there are, however, aspects with which we cannot agree: the reinforced market orientation of the cap and the devaluation of food sovereignty, placing the emphasis solely on food security, forgetting that it is difficult without it. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the mcguinness report addresses a subject which i consider to be strategic: food security and the importance of a strong and competitive european agriculture in a globalised world. food safety, following the recent food price crisis, must be an eu priority. although a new food shortage crisis is not likely any time soon, it is likely to occur in the future, given the negative effects of climate change on agricultural production and the continuing increase in demand. since developing countries are unlikely to be able to produce enough food to feed their growing populations, industrialized countries will continue to have the important task of producing and exporting food. the cap must therefore once again be a european priority and the basis of european food security policy, and more than ever essential in a time of financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - the recent extraordinary rise in food prices has rightly sparked a debate on agricultural policies, food security and development. unfortunately, the issue of international trade is often absent from these debates, contributing to the search for solutions that ignore the positive potential that increased global consumption can generate. if in the first stage this food inflation threatens to cause famine in countries and populations without resources and requires increased humanitarian aid, in the second stage it stimulates the overall increase in production capacity and the increase in global trade. this is an opportunity for the world's agricultural populations that must be seized. as regards europe and the cap, adaptation to this new world context - with a potential for slower growth than expected - must not be at the expense of protectionism and new barriers or market distortion. the medium and long-term profitability of european agriculture and rural development should be the criteria for the cap and its reform.
in writing. the report is another step towards the ep's majority in its effort to sell the lisbon treaty at any cost, a task which has not proved easy, judging by the results of the referendums already held. this multiplication of efforts has at least one merit: it shows clearly how difficult, even painful, it is for its advocates to find arguments to promote it. there is no propaganda, and that is what this report is about, to disguise the undemocratic nature of the insistence of the european union's officials to force a new referendum in ireland in order to impose this treaty proposal. we do not share the narrow view of those who think that the establishment of a civil dialogue or a citizens' initiative is sufficient to counteract the nature of a proposal which, taken as a whole, excludes the citizens of each member state from the possibility of defining their collective future, which insists on measures leading to precarious employment, increased working hours, facilitation of dismissals, privatisation of public services. no amount of propaganda can hide the neoliberal, federalist and militarist content of this draft treaty. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - in a very brief way, this own-initiative report of the european parliament aims to integrate the community's requirements for the preservation of the marine environment with the common fisheries policy, which has as one of its operational objectives the progressive implementation of an ecosystem approach to fisheries management. as a key point in this report, i would like to stress that the current system of tacs and quotas is considered to be unsuitable for the purposes of the reformed cfp and has proved inadequate both for the community fisheries sector and for the conservation of resources. alternative management systems must be rapidly equalised and in this respect i think the ec should be more rapid in discussing alternative forms, some of which, such as management based on fishing rights (for example) are the mainstay in countries such as the united states, new zealand, norway, iceland, all of which have a strong tradition and great potential in the fisheries sector. the reformulation of the recovery plan for fisheries and lobster is another key point to be considered. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - although it does not share the full content of the adopted resolution, it does contain a set of important objectives and principles which should guide a fisheries policy. it is especially important to reaffirm and defend these objectives and principles (as the cfp has consistently done), many of which are not respected by the common fisheries policy (even if some of them are enshrined in it), when the european commission announces the presentation next april of a green paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, pointing to a possible reform of this policy by 2012. in view of the objectives and intentions that have been expressed by the european commission and other eu institutions regarding the future of fisheries, the sector in portugal - which is facing a long crisis, the causes of which lie in the heavy policies followed for decades, at national and community level - should be alert and mobilized against new and more heavy measures, which, if adopted and implemented, would represent the destruction of a large part of this strategic sector, with negative consequences for the country. such a policy is not a fatality! there are alternative policies for fisheries in portugal! policies which the pcp has been proposing and defending both at national level and in the european parliament!
in writing. − again, the final compromise ended up taking into account many of the criticisms we had made of the initial proposal, particularly as regards reduction rates, targets, measures and timetables for reducing the risks and hazards associated with pesticides and dependence on pesticides. it seems to us more reasonable not to quantify these targets at the outset, so as not to create ever more obstacles to small-scale farming. we also welcome the fact that the exemption from the inspection requirement for equipment and accessories covered by the european commission's initial proposal has been maintained and that the requirement for all equipment and accessories has been dropped, including those used on small family farms. we believe that this practical and principled differentiation between family farms and intensive agro-industry should be present in every decision. by the way, it is always worth remembering that it was not family farms and the non-intensive production methods that caused mad cows, dioxins, nitrofurans and other food disasters... that is why we voted for the compromise.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur and congratulate her on the final outcome of the document. the entry into force of this directive will be of the utmost importance in increasing pressure for urgent amendment of the pesticide risk reduction policy, which in the eu has been characterised by a certain lack of information and supervision of practices and products. in the interests of human health and the environment, it is essential to contribute to changing the problem of agricultural pesticides. this document is essential because it lays down rules for informing and training those who use pesticides and it requires monitoring of equipment. it also prohibits aerial spraying (permitted in cases of absolute necessity and when there are no alternatives). another positive aspect is the possibility for each member state to define protection and risk zones.
in writing. - the compromise which has been reached in the european parliament represents a step back from the maximalist proposals which existed on the elimination of active substances, particularly in the negative implications they would have for insecticides and pesticides, especially in countries such as portugal, which is being heavily affected by certain pests (insects) on fruit and vegetable crops, potatoes and olives and by certain diseases such as pine nematode and chestnut cancer, where, also due to the lack of effective phytosanitary controls, great damage is being caused, particularly to family farms. although we have many doubts about some aspects of the compromise, such as the question of non-chemical methods of control or phytopharmaceutical prevention and pest and crop management, we think it is right to apply the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations for plant protection products and to create zones that aggregate regions with similar ecological and climatic characteristics. but we insist on studies which give us the real reality of the consequences of these measures on productivity and consequently on farmers' incomes, so that this bill can be distributed throughout society, since we are talking about environmental and food safety requirements.
in writing. the aim of this document is to help harmonise legislation on pesticides. i agree with the report adopted, particularly because the application of the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations for plant protection products will put an end to the competitive imbalances that exist between different member states (with different market sizes) and will above all reinforce environmental and food safety concerns. the creation of three zones that aggregate regions with similar soil and climate characteristics is very positive. it would be risky to put completely different realities in the same bag. the question of endocrine disruptors has a fundamental basis for me: the proposed text is based on scientific opinions. the problem with endocrine disruptors is that, unlike carcinogens or mutagens, they have no toxicological parameters, but produce a variety of effects ranging from mild hormonal imbalances to genital malformations and/or cancer. it is important to regulate substances that have a proven negative effect on human health. the regulation has a triple legal basis (agriculture, internal market and public health), which i think is very positive.
in writing. − it is interesting that the report acknowledges that the analysis of the state of public finances in 2007 and the first part of 2008 shows a change in the economic trend and the threat of a downturn in the economy and growth prospects, accompanied by a persistently low inflation rate and rising income inequality. but then, in the face of the crisis, it is basically the same recipes that have led to the present situation, instead of taking this moment to propose changes to the neoliberal and monetarist policies that have contributed to the serious social situation that we are experiencing: increased inequalities, unemployment, precarious and low-paid work, poverty. it is therefore insisting on price stability and the stability pact, albeit with some flexibility, and on the lisbon strategy, which, as we know, has served as a pretext for resorting to privatisation and the discharge of the social functions of the state, which also includes the thesis of the minimum state and the highest efficiency of the private sector, and also seeks to impose the acceptance of the so-called wage moderation, which translates into the loss of purchasing power of wages. that is why we are voting against it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president jacques barrot, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing today aims to amend the regulation adopted in 2004, which improved and harmonised the security rules on the protection of passports and travel documents of citizens of the european union against their fraudulent use, while introducing biometric identification elements. unlike in 2004, we are now in co-decision. i would like to thank the french presidency and commissioner barrot for the enormous effort they have put into this dossier with a view to an agreement at first reading. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work and cooperation, which was indispensable to the achievement of this result. this was a necessary solution, given that this regulation entered into force in 2004 and that, from june this year at the latest, all member states would have to collect fingerprints from children from birth. however, existing studies, resulting from pilot projects carried out in several member states, show that it is very difficult to collect, or even to rely on, fingerprints from children under the age of six. it is true that the national legislature could create exceptions to that obligation. however, this would mean that up to the age limit at which such exemption was granted, only temporary passports could be made. it would be an unreasonable burden for parents to have to obtain a passport for each of their children whenever they wanted to travel outside the schengen area. we have thus been able to reach an agreement stipulating a four-year period, in which the age limit will be fixed at 12 years with a derogating clause which should allow those states which have already adopted legislation setting a lower limit to do so, provided that this limit is not less than six years. we also awaited a review clause stipulating that after four years, and taking into account the results of the study we have asked the commission to draw up on the credibility of children's fingerprints, the age limit will be fixed definitively and in a harmonised way for all member states. a second derogation has been introduced for persons who, for various reasons, are physically unable to provide fingerprints. the icao recommendation of 'one person-one passport' was also welcomed. as the european data protection supervisor has said, this is an added benefit in the fight against child trafficking. in the field of child protection, we also obtained an interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions to establish a common position for the adoption of the rules necessary to protect children against abduction and trafficking. the commission should take the relevant initiatives in the respective area of civil law. i must confess that we are struggling with the question of the limited competence of the union in this area: the european union can only intervene in the reinforcement of biometric data in passports and travel documents with the aim of improving the security of these documents in the context of border control. i should say that we have established rules to safeguard the exercise of community competence by determining what types of data - fingerprints and photographs - and also the limitation of the use that will be made of them. they may only be used for the purposes of this regulation - border control - and to verify the authenticity of the document and to verify whether or not the person carrying it is the rightful holder. we have also reached agreement on two studies: one on so-called breeder documents, to ensure that the documents which allow the issuing of passports deserve the same reliability as the passport we want to safeguard, and another on matches at border controls, so that we can study false rejection rates. as a result of these studies, and taking into account the four-year review clause, the necessary amendments should be introduced in due course in a codecision procedure, without forgetting the importance of consulting the european data protection supervisor, which was unfortunately not taken into account in the preparation of this proposal.
mr president, mr barrot, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate carlos coelho, martine roure and the other members on their work. in december 2004, the council adopted the regulation laying down standards for the security features and biometric data of passports and travel documents issued by the member states. now we need to take further steps to combat child abduction and trafficking. the use of passports by children in accordance with the principle of 'one person, one passport' can be a key means of winning this difficult and important battle. in my country, portugal, fingerprinting children from the age of six is a longstanding practice, which is perhaps why i have no objection to it. as a supporter of the european cause, i believe that harmonization is important in this area. i am reassured that the member states which, like portugal, have long since set the minimum age for fingerprinting at six years old will not have to change their national legislation. i should like to stress that the security of passports which is being strengthened today is not limited to the existence of a passport. the passport itself corresponds to an increase in the level of security, ranging from the presentation of the documents necessary for the issuance of passports, followed by the collection of biometric data, to the verification and matching at cross-border control posts. this report is another step towards affirming the rights of the individual and ensuring his safety.
the rapporteur. - mr president, if there is one thing that emerges from the debate, it is that the concern of the vast majority in this house is to combat effectively trafficking in human beings and, in particular, trafficking in children. this is the major utility of this instrument which we are going to approve and i am glad that almost all the speakers have spoken about this. i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and i do not wish to return the compliment. it is fair to say that mrs martine roure was crucial in getting the agreement, to which commissioner barrot contributed a great deal and also the french presidency. i would particularly like to thank commissioner barrot for the commission's willingness to provide institutional support to strengthen the fight against the trafficking of children, but also for the commission's willingness to cooperate in the three studies we have requested: the reliability of fingerprints of minors, breeder documents and false rejection rates, which are some of the concerns we have with the implementation of these rules. and finally, mr president, mr brejc has raised a question: he asked if we could say that the issuing of passports is safe. to be completely honest, i have to say that this varies from country to country. some countries have systems which are more stringent than others and that is also why the study of breeder documents is very important. i know that the european institution has no competence in this area, the issue of passports is a national competence, and so i was very pleased when commissioner barrot accepted that the european commission should collaborate in this study on breeder documents. there's no point in having very secure passports if that security is sabotaged in the issuing process. it is not a question of imposing measures on member states, but of sharing best practice, so that we can be sure that the european passport is a secure reality at our external borders. thank you all for your cooperation.
mr president, vice-president wallström, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of transparency is a fundamental principle of the european union: it strengthens the democratic nature of our institutions, facilitates the participation of citizens in the decision-making process and thus ensures greater legitimacy for public administrations by making them more effective and accountable to the citizens. i support the principle that any democratic institution has a duty to ensure that its documents, activities and decisions are made public. access to documents is an essential element in the necessary loyal cooperation between the institutions. during the investigation into the cia's activities in europe, i directly criticised the council for violating this loyal cooperation by restricting access to all or part of key documents. it is for this reason that i also welcomed the court of justice's decision in the turkish case, concluding that there is in principle a duty to disseminate the opinions of the council's legal service on a legislative procedure, which may be of crucial importance in order to understand the direction taken in the decisionmaking process. i agree that the 2001 regulation should be revised not only to address the shortcomings that have been identified in the meantime but also to incorporate the latest case law, in particular the turkish judgment. however, we must of course respect the legal basis that has been given to us. some of the rapporteur's proposals go far beyond what is permitted by the legal basis, as has already been mentioned by mr herrero and mr cashman. there are, for example, rules addressed to national parliaments without any legal basis. the court of justice itself, in the turkish judgment, recognises that the regulation must be applied by balancing the risk associated with disclosure with the general interest in making such a document accessible. in some cases, marco cappato makes proposals which, in my opinion, call that balance into question.
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome rapporteur alexander lambsdorff and the shadow rapporteurs, with particular reference to barbara weiler. i believe that we must make progress towards the integration of national defence markets and even the strategic coordination of their production. we must indeed move forward with the specifics and precautions needed to apply the essential rules of the internal market to the defence industries, by increasing transparency in the tenders that are organised and in the contracts that are signed involving member states of the european union. but at the same time we must help to develop the conditions which will make european equipment and products more competitive on world markets. commissioner mccreevy, i think it is important that this directive should ensure that the legal framework for public procurement in the fields of defence and security is advanced, while making progress in the construction of the internal market and, of course, respecting the interests and rights of the member states, especially in the field of security, and in particular those manufacturers of arms, ammunition and defence and security equipment, such as my own country. mr president, i would also like to stress the provisions which will make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to access this market, in particular by improving the rules on subcontracting and the prospect of making further progress with greater impact and depth in the industrial fabric, towards the creation of a genuine european market in defence industries, which could also help to strengthen research and development, not only in defence industries, but in a whole range of european industries which benefit from the development of defence industries. finally, i think it is worth mentioning the obvious link between defence industries and the union's external policies. but i would like to quote, even in connection with a recent intervention, a classic roman saying: 'if you want peace, prepare for war'. in the european union, which is almost a peaceful superpower, we call these industries 'defence industries' and not 'war industries', because we want peace and not war, and therefore we also need defence industries.
commissioner, i appreciate your clarification. i regret that i cannot share your optimism about how these increases in production authorization will benefit the production of the azores. what i can assure the commissioner is that these effects, which are already estimated, according to a review this week, to have been a drop of over 60% in world market prices for milk powder since august 2007, are having a profound effect on farmers' incomes in the autonomous region of the azores and, surely, in many other parts of europe as well, and that these measures, which i hope will have some effect, have not yet had any effect. i would therefore ask the commissioner to pay the utmost attention to this situation.
mr barrot, i agree with you, i agree with you about the dissatisfaction. we must not be satisfied with the vast body of measures. the truth is that irregular immigration continues into europe; human trafficking continues; there are areas where there is a lot of immigration, namely the mediterranean and towards italy; france has made progress with a number of important bilateral cooperation projects, but other member states have not. the commission must continue its policy of cooperation and assistance to the member states with unwavering enthusiasm. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. this convention, adopted in june 2007 at the 96th session of the international labour conference, aims to establish minimum international labour standards for the fisheries sector, promoting decent living and working conditions for fishermen, and covers, among others, related conditions on such important issues as health and safety at work, the number of actual workers and hours of rest, the crew list, repatriation in case of problems, recruitment, the placement of workers and social security. the adoption of this ilo convention on work in the fisheries sector has long been anticipated by fishermen, who consider it to be a step forward in the dignification of work in this important strategic sector, which employs some 30 million men and women worldwide. it was in 2003 that the ilo management and its tripartite members began work on the development of comprehensive and up-to-date international labour standards for the fisheries sector, with the aim of providing fishermen with adequate protection on a global scale due to the particular nature of the sector and the specific living and working conditions, which imply the need for special protection, also taking into account that this is a sector where there are many fatal accidents to which serious exploitation and unprotected situations contribute. the convention also revises other existing conventions in the sector, in particular on the minimum age, the medical examination of fishermen, their employment contract and the accommodation of crew, and is accompanied by a recommendation (no 199). it is noted that this convention became necessary following the adoption of the ilo consolidated convention on maritime labour in february 2006, which excluded the fisheries sector from its scope. we therefore call for every effort to be made to ensure that the various member states proceed to its rapid ratification, preferably before 2012, as the convention will take effect after it has been ratified by 10 of the 180 member states of the ilo, of which 8 are expected to be coastal countries. but it is equally important that they apply its provisions urgently where they do not already exist. finally, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of this report, including my colleague mr willy meyer, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries, and i hope that all members will encourage their national parliaments and governments to ratify this convention as soon as possible.
i too would like to join the voice of the rapporteur, the commissioner and all our colleagues who have rejoiced at this initiative by the international labour organisation and who call on all member states to ratify convention no 188. the point is that deregulation of fisheries, the unregulated market without borders, principles and limits, is not only a victim of the sustainability of the resource fish but also of the fishermen themselves. and the protection of fishermen must become an essential part, if not the very heart of the common fisheries policy. this is my fundamental appeal: that we do not stop at ratifying this international convention, but that we put the protection of fishermen at the heart of the common fisheries policy.
the rapporteur. - i thank the president and the commissioner and all the members who spoke and who supported the ratification of this convention. the report will certainly be adopted by the european parliament tomorrow, thus making the necessary contribution to the rapid ratification by the member states of convention 188 and its accompanying recommendation 199 on work in the fisheries sector. as i have said, our aim is that it should come into force soon, preferably before 2012, and we therefore call for its ratification by all member states. it will make an important contribution to the establishment of minimum international standards at world level, which will guarantee better working conditions, greater safety and fewer fatal accidents in a sector which is very dangerous but also strategic. it will also help to recognise the dignity of fishermen, whose work is so hard and who should be at the centre of our concerns.
mr president-in-office, you spoke of a europe with rules. you've talked a lot about rules, by the way. one of the rules of democracy is to keep your promises. you had committed yourself to ratifying the lisbon treaty by the end of 2008. you didn't, and you did wrong. so i ask: when will the czech republic ratify the treaty of lisbon? you also spoke of self-confidence. it sounded arrogant to me. the czech government, including its president, has every right to say and do what it wants, but it cannot forget that it belongs to the european union and that it now speaks for some 500 million citizens and 27 member states. it cannot therefore ignore the fact that 25 member states have already ratified the treaty of lisbon and that ireland has already called a second referendum. and fortunately, the polls are a yes majority. the irish have realised that in this particularly difficult international environment, being part of the european union and the eurozone has protected them from greater evils. the czech republic has yet to say when it will ratify the treaty of lisbon. as my leader, martin schulz, has said, at a time when europe is facing unprecedented challenges, it is necessary for europe to speak with one voice. that will only be possible with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. the czech presidency has put forward three priorities: the economy, energy and external relations. the presentation of the programme of the czech presidency thus followed the lines already known, but it had some particularities, particularly as regards the ratification of the draft treaty of lisbon. the czech prime minister stressed the need to respect the sovereignty of the irish people. he also said that if a referendum had been held in the czech republic, the result might have been the same as in ireland, with the draft treaty rejected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. as regards socioeconomic issues, nothing different has been achieved, which means that the neoliberal positions, the proposals rejected by the european parliament on the working time directive, the stability pact and the neoliberal lisbon strategy have been maintained, while the economic crisis and its serious social consequences have been ignored. we regret that the commission has not intervened in the war crimes that israel continues to commit against the palestinians.
in writing. − this regulation aims to amend the standards for biometric security devices in passports and travel documents issued by the member states. a regulation we have disagreed with since its inception in 2004 for introducing the harmonisation of security devices and the integration of biometric identifiers as part of the security policies promoted at european union level. the main purpose of this amendment is to introduce exemptions for children under 12 years of age a derogation for 4 years, which countries with legislation setting a lower age may maintain provided they respect the minimum limit of 6 years (cases of portugal, france and estonia) , in addition to other aspects relating to the protection and security of biometric data. although the proposal lays down exemption rules for children under 12 (a decision based on purely technical issues), we consider that it does not call into question the substantive issue, i.e. the use of biometric data, in particular of children, and its harmonisation at eu level (especially since the issuing of passports is a competence of each member state), within the framework of its security policy. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the carl schlyter report on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (dichloromethane). i believe that this proposal to amend directive 76/769/eec will contribute to an effective reduction of the risk of environmental and human exposure to substances with dangerous properties such as dichloromethane (dcm), which has a unique profile of adverse effects on human health. the protection of human health must take precedence over industrial interests.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the compromise text, as this measure can have a positive impact on workers in various industries, including automotive and shipbuilding, and minimises their exposure to highly harmful toxic agents. it is dichloromethane (dcm) which is a colourless chemical compound with a sweet, pleasant and penetrating odour similar to that of ether. its main marketing activities are the production of pharmaceuticals, solvents and auxiliary products, paint strippers and adhesives. dcm has a unique profile of negative effects on human health and is included in the list of 33 priority substances established under the water directive. this substance is classified as a category 3 carcinogen. it has a narcotic effect and, at high exposure levels, causes central nervous system depression, loss of consciousness and cardiotoxic effects, with a direct risk of death from inappropriate use. according to the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, one of the main concerns related to the toxicity of dcm is the risk to particularly vulnerable populations. several alternatives to dcm-based picklers are already available on the market.
in writing. - i agree fundamentally with the aim of the proposal: to reduce the risks of using dichloromethane (dcm) by the general public and professionals. we know that dcm has a unique profile of adverse effects on human health: is a carcinogen, has a narcotic effect and, at high exposure levels, causes central nervous system depression, loss of consciousness and cardiotoxic effects, with a direct risk of death from inappropriate use. according to the commission, 18 deaths due to the use of mcas were recorded in the eu between 1989 and 2007. i think it is imperative to introduce european measures to ban or replace this substance. following the vote in the envi committee, i support a ban on dcm for general users, but allowing its use by professionals, under safety conditions.
in writing. - the vote today on this report, which i tabled on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the ilo fisheries labour convention 2007, is an important contribution towards minimum international standards at world level, which guarantee better working conditions, more safety and fewer fatal accidents in a sector which is very dangerous but which is also strategic, putting the defence of the dignity and the hard working life of fishermen at the centre of our concerns, knowing that this is where the highest percentage of fatal accidents occur. the report was approved by 671 votes to 16. convention no 188 will take effect after it has been ratified by 10 of the 180 member states of the ilo, of which 8 are expected to be coastal countries. it is recalled that the convention revises the conventions on the minimum age of fishermen, on medical examination, on the employment contract of fishermen and on the accommodation of crew, also covering issues such as health and safety at work, recruitment, placement and social security.
in writing. − the union is pursuing, through the common fisheries policy, the effectiveness of fishing activities so that the sector, including aquaculture, is economically viable and competitive, ensures a fair standard of living for the populations that depend on fishing activities and meets the interests of consumers. the ilo convention 188, adopted in june 2007, is a document that aims to allow fair competition between fishing vessel owners and to give workers in the sector dignity at work. the convention pursues these objectives by establishing a set of international minimum standards for the fisheries sector which, in certain areas, are the exclusive competence of the community. it therefore seems necessary to propose that the member states ratify this convention in the interests of the community and the coherence of the common fisheries policy itself.
in writing. − for several years the council has submitted an annual report to the european parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in the union, to which parliament has responded by drawing up an own-initiative report. this report was drawn up for the first time on the basis of the findings of the fundamental rights agency and is of particular importance given that no report on this subject has been adopted since 2003. i think that the rapporteur has developed too much on certain matters which have already been discussed in his own reports, and there are a number of points which are very controversial and on some of which i voted against, as they are clearly against my principles. however, there are many other points with which i fully agree and for this reason i voted against, not only because i believe that the text has been substantially improved by the excellent work done by my colleague, mrs kinga gál, but also because i cannot in good conscience vote against a report in defence of fundamental rights.
in writing. − to think that fundamental rights are fully guaranteed and protected in the european union and the member states would be an error of analysis and a detriment to political action. fundamental rights, even in free and democratic societies, lack protection and promotion. however, there are separate questions about this report and this debate. first, the monitoring of the protection of these rights at national level. in societies such as ours, this function is exercised primarily within the national framework. of course, without prejudice to the possibilities of appeal at european level which we have. between the institutions' duty to guarantee the treaties and national sovereignty, there is room for each party to exercise its function without prejudice to the institutional nature of the eu. on the other hand, in this particular report there is an undesirable confusion between what are fundamental rights and what are ideological choices about the organization of society. such a debate is interesting. but the attempt to impose these positions on the member states, against their democratically formed will and against the principle of subsidiarity, proves precisely the risks of communitizing what is national. that is why i voted against this report, because i disagree with much of its content.
in writing. - if i were in favour of the no campaign in the irish referendum, i would applaud the giusto catania report and its supporters enthusiastically. it is such a gross disregard for the principle of subsidiarity and such a violation of the institutional rules of the european union and the powers of the member states that it justifies all those who are suspicious of the political voracity of brussels. to attack safeguard clauses, which are a direct expression of the treaties and a fundamental guarantee of the democracy of states, as a codification of discriminatory practices is pathetic, grossly offensive to the fundamental rights of citizens. to argue that the signing of international conventions by a majority of member states imposes an obligation on the whole eu to be bound by them is a complete legal absurdity, a plunge into darkness that goes beyond the most extreme federalism. i also reject the absolutely perverse assertion that europe lacks credibility, which is designed to create a tactical inferiority for us: the european union is not the sudan, the people's republic of china, cuba, somalia or north korea. finally, the report is spreading itself over areas of political struggle which have nothing to do with fundamental rights, and it is also lacking in credibility, consistency and effectiveness. i voted against it.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement concluded by the european community shipowners' association and the european transport workers' federation on the maritime labour convention, 2006, and amending directive 1999/63/ec, as it consolidates international minimum labour rights, which is important to ensure better working conditions and greater safety, while respecting the dignity of these professionals. but we regret that the proposals put forward by our group, in particular those aimed at removing any legal uncertainty and undermining the work done by the social partners to reach agreement, were not adopted. the convention itself admits that countries do not use flexibility, and this is what the proposal for a directive has accepted, with the agreement of the social partners, so we disagree that the majority of the european parliament has included the question of flexibility in paragraph 6.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be given a role in the un human rights council, and for the eu to be given a role in the un human rights council. this over-reaching view is based on the unacceptable attempt to impose the eu as the model in terms of human rights, especially when the facts demonstrate its hypocritical human rights policy, as is demonstrated by the complicit stance of the eu towards israel see the abstention in the unhrc resolution on palestine. the report is full of contradictions, particularly when it deplores the division of the unhrc into regional blocs and at the same time says it supports the existence of a coordinated common position within the unhrc by the eu. is this not also a policy of blocs? or is a block policy only bad when it's not to your benefit? the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu. and you can see why.
in writing. - if the united nations and the various agencies and organisations associated with it are by their nature to be a mirror of the world, it is natural that the image thus reflected is not the one we would wish or would like to construct. these considerations are necessary in the context of the debate on the united nations human rights council. debating and voting on human rights in the world with countries that do not pay any respect to them will, as expected, have a bizarre outcome. it is not just a question of legitimacy. it is first and foremost a question of language. what human rights standards can we expect the governments of libya or zimbabwe to share with democratic states and to be accountable to their people? none, that's for sure. and yet, it is precisely for the dialogue between those who speak different languages that diplomacy is useful. between equals, mediation is not necessary. it follows that the existence of dialogue places should be a policy to be encouraged and promoted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a thousand is today's number, a thousand dead black pedagogy. forgive me for being blunt: how many more lives will the election of tzipi livni and ehud barak in the february election cost? we are here today to demand a ceasefire and an end to the killing of civilians. but the resolution also questions our responsibility. it recalls that the council decided to upgrade diplomatic relations with israel, against the wishes of this parliament. it was a premeditated conspiracy. today i hear: we need to talk to hamas. we would have gained years if we had respected the palestinian elections. europe's role is not to pay for the politics and destruction imposed by the stronger side. it is to hear the cry that is filling the streets and squares of our cities. ceasefire now, but let us know that peace depends on the end of the occupation. that word has fallen into disuse and should be removed from the index in which realpolitik has placed it.
in writing. in the face of the barbarity that has been inflicted on the palestinian people in the gaza strip - which the recent resolution of the un human rights council denounces and condemns - what is required and demanded is: - the firm denunciation of the violations of human rights and the crimes perpetrated by the israeli army, of the state terrorism of israel! - the clear condemnation of israel's cruel aggression against the palestinian people, which nothing can justify! - an end to the aggression and the inhumane blockade imposed on the people of the gaza strip! - the urgent humanitarian aid to the palestinian people! - the withdrawal of israeli troops from all occupied palestinian territories! - israel's respect for international law and un resolutions, the end of the occupation, the settlements, the separation wall, the murders, the arrests, the exploitation, the countless humiliations inflicted on the palestinian people! - a just peace, which is only possible if the inalienable right of the palestinian people to an independent and sovereign state, with the 1967 borders and its capital in east jerusalem, is respected! in palestine there is a colonizer and a colonized, an aggressor and a victim, an oppressor and an oppressed, an exploiter and an exploited. israel cannot go unpunished!
the council and the commission must take action on the fact that, as parliament sees it, the governments of the countries of the horn of africa are not acting in accordance with their obligations under article 9 of the cotonou agreement. human rights, democracy and good governance are empty words. you just don't see who you don't want to see. in ethiopia, for example, which is the seat of the african union, the oppression of the people is covered by rhetoric that sounds good to the donors' ears, but is no less crude and shameless. two recent episodes... on 29 august, ms birtukan midekssa, leader of a party with a parliamentary seat, was again arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment for refusing to publicly state that she had requested the pardon that the meles zenawi government used to release her in 2007, as well as many other opposition political leaders detained since the 2005 elections. secondly, the ethiopian parliament's approval of the so-called ngo law, which in practice criminalizes all the work of independent ngos. there is no transition to democracy in ethiopia, commissioner, and i would appreciate it if you would tell your colleague louis michel that. in eritrea, the government's crackdown on those who try to exercise the most basic human rights is even more shameless. as for somalia, which is currently the most serious situation in the horn of africa, the international community, including the european union, is guilty of criminal negligence towards the people of a country where for decades there has been no law and order and ethiopian troops have been able to occupy and commit crimes with impunity, and where pirates and terrorist groups flourish. the european union's naval mission will solve nothing if the european union, the united states, the un and the african union continue to ignore the root causes of piracy, which are fought on land and not at sea. the region will not achieve stability and progress unless the dramatic conflicts that continue to plague sudan, particularly in the south and in darfur, are also resolved, and where the rhetoric of the international community, including the european union, needs to be translated into decisive action to protect the civilian populations under attack and to end the impunity of criminals. in this sense, the possible confirmation of the indictment of president omar bashir by the international criminal court will also be a test of the credibility and effectiveness of both the european union and the african union.
the question of transport and animal welfare is one which, as our colleague neil parish and others have very well said, must be seen essentially from a civilizational perspective. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life of the animals. but it should also be borne in mind that the price to be paid for the application of the strict and costly rules in force is the distortion of competition which has a strong impact on rural development in some regions of the european union. the regions and member states which do not have the capacity to supply their markets with certain species and which are further away from the centres of production, as is the case in my own country, now have greater difficulties in being competitive in their slaughter and processing industries, while the surplus regions and member states have gained added advantages because it has become easier for them to sell the products already processed, with the inherent advantages in terms of employment and added value. at the end of two years of application of this legislation, it is fully justified for the commission to provide as extensive an assessment as possible, not only of the concrete issues of strict application of the transport regulation but also of the economic and social consequences for regions and member states with deficits in the production of certain animal species relevant for human food. i therefore think that the commission should respond to these questions as quickly, objectively and broadly as possible.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, initiatives to promote and safeguard the cultures of peoples, particularly in the field of food, such as the application of the mediterranean diet as an intangible cultural heritage of humanity, which will be considered by the responsible unesco committee in 2009, should be welcomed. the achievement of this objective can help to preserve, promote and make known a diet which is predominant in the mediterranean countries and which is considered healthy by a number of nutritionists and other experts. as has already been said, this diet is based on the traditional products of the mediterranean region, such as fruit and vegetables, olive oil, fish, cereals, dried fruit, aromatic herbs, dairy products, sheepmeat and goatmeat, and wine. however, there has been a decline in the population maintaining these healthy eating habits. we therefore believe that, among other consequential and necessary political initiatives, effective measures should be taken to support traditional mediterranean production, particularly in the framework of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. measures for small and family farmers and fishermen in these regions, which guarantee their income. measures to promote traditional and artisanal products and to encourage the development of local markets. in the end, measures to counter the increasing abandonment of agricultural activity and the decline in the population that is responsible for and safeguards the production of these traditional quality products by means of its knowledge. all issues and measures within the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy for the same subject to bring together, at the same time and in a positive way, three aspects as important as health, culture and the economy. the mediterranean diet can do that. from the health point of view, there seems to be no scientific doubt about the benefits to human health of a diet based on fresh and natural foods such as already mentioned here cereals, rice, legumes, nuts, fruit and vegetables, frequent consumption of fish, olive oil as the main dietary fat and moderate consumption of wine. from a cultural point of view, the production systems and the processing and consumption of the products mentioned are associated with ancestral techniques and traditions that go beyond greco-roman culture and that, in many respects, continue to be present in the uses, customs and techniques of the communities of the mediterranean basin. from an economic point of view, activities linked in particular to agriculture, fisheries and rural tourism, which are so important for the occupation of the territory and the vitality of rural and coastal areas, continue to have a very considerable socioeconomic impact, while at the same time being, and interestingly, in the case of agriculture, the most competitive productions in the european union and those which have always benefited from the least financial support under the common agricultural policy. in view of all that i have just said, the initiative of the spanish authorities to have the mediterranean diet recognised by unesco as a cultural heritage of humanity deserves to be welcomed, and i think it is the duty and obligation of the european union to do everything it can to influence this decision, because this is not in the specific interest of one country or group of countries, it is in the interest of the whole union.
i would like to propose a new paragraph before paragraph 1, which reads as follows:notes that the current situation in the countries of the horn of africa is not in conformity with the essential elements of cooperation stated in article 9 of the cotonou agreement; this is a sentence which was already in the report that our three colleagues, who visited the region recently, gave us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the madurell report on the transposition and application of directive 2002/73/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, as i considered it important to apply the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field covered by this directive. among the many shortcomings in the transposition of the directive, i would highlight the fact that the legislation of several member states does not specifically refer to gender discrimination. as the rapporteur points out, the pay gap remains high, with women earning on average 15% less than men, and between 2000 and 2006 the gap narrowed by only 1%. in the context of the lisbon strategy, it is essential that this status quo should change, and i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of recommending that the european commission actively monitor the transposition of the directive and the compliance of national legislation with it.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in the middle east/gaza, for the sole reason that i do not think that a european parliament resolution is justified at the present time. i think that a debate on the matter, without a vote, would be the most effective way of involving the european parliament in this matter.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the deaths of civilians and to ensure that the victims of the violence are treated with dignity and respect. the ep: - in the face of brutal aggression, crimes, violations of the most elementary human rights, he has not a word of condemnation of israel. - i know . it reaffirms its ambiguity, by avoiding the fact that in palestine there is a colonizer and a colonized, an aggressor and a victim, an oppressor and an oppressed, an exploiter and an exploited, and bypassing israel's responsibilities. - it whitewashes the eu's responsibility, which is complicit in israel's impunity. the recent decision to strengthen bilateral relations with that country or the shameful abstention of the eu countries in the resolution adopted by the unhrc are examples. - and in a situation as grave as the present one, it does not denounce israel's disregard for un resolutions, the end of the occupation, the settlements, the separation wall, the murders, the detentions, the countless humiliations inflicted on the palestinian people - not even their inalienable right to a state within the 1967 borders, with its capital in east jerusalem!
in writing. - israel's right to exist in peace and security is inalienable. the right of the palestinians to live in a free territory, administered by them, in peace, democracy and with respect for human rights is also inalienable. any solution for the region must ensure that threats to these rights are removed. the confrontation in gaza, on the contrary, reveals in the west bank that the relationship between the parties, even if tense and conflicting, is possible if both are willing to accept the existence of the other. the same cannot be said of hamas, which uses the territory it has seized to pursue its stated purpose: to prevent israel from existing. these circumstances, however, do not make the deaths in gaza any less tragic. hamas, we know, without any regard for the lives of palestinians, uses the population as human shields against israeli attacks and their deaths as propaganda weapons. israel, determined to legitimately guarantee its security, continues to fight despite this tragic outcome. the process is inevitable if the international community, including the arab countries, does not take up the promotion of the viability of some and the security of others as the objective of the middle east peace process.
in writing. − the current context and future of relations with belarus pose a challenge to the european union's foreign policy. some gestures from minsk justify a resumption of some relations. however, it is clear that the energy factor plays a significant role in driving this process forward in the present context. i can see why. realism is an integral part of foreign policy. but realism cannot, does not need to and should not be stripped of values and strategy. the promotion of democracy in belarus is as much a matter of values as of strategy. this perception of the medium and long-term european interest must be central to this new phase of the relationship. otherwise, we are producing a future dependency in which values are subject to short-term and low-success strategies.
in writing. the dark history of europe, of the human capacity to reveal the worst of itself, is not over. srebrenica and its terrible tragedy is not just a last moment of human horror. they are a reminder, as if necessary, that destruction is always possible, that the condition of man is one of permanent struggle for peace. that no good is acquired and permanent. but the memory of that massacre, the celebration of that tragedy, is also the tribute that evil pays to good. for us portuguese, who are geographically and culturally distant from the places of the main european horrors of the 20th century, who have a different history, invoking them is even more important. because geography and culture offer us different stories, but they don't distinguish our human condition. and the memory of what we might have lived should be an integral part of our heritage.
i wanted not only to support this resolution but also, and especially, to support the words of all the friends of a free iran who, like our colleague marios matsakis and others, have made it their business to stress that the main problem is the policy of appeasement towards the iranian regime. it's politics that makes oil and trade contracts more important than principles. the listing of the people's mujahedin of iran as a terrorist organization was a scandal from the beginning. it was to make what is a real problem extraordinarily important in a policy which is the opposite, which is to do favors to those who actually pursue terrorist policies. for this reason, i once again urge the council to put an end to this situation immediately and to remove the people's mujahedin of iran from the list of terrorist organisations.
the number of workers affected by unemployment in portugal is growing exponentially. every day, companies announce production cuts, layoffs or even complete closures. the most serious cases include the threat to some 2,000 workers at qimonda in vila do conde following the declaration of insolvency of the parent company in germany. on wednesday a delegation of workers from both countries will be here in parliament, hoping for solidarity and also our support in the fight they are waging to defend their jobs. but the scandal of late payment of wages and other remuneration due to workers is also increasing, as is the case in cork companies, in some textiles, ceramics and metalworking, among others. this situation is creating serious social problems, increasing poverty and even reaching dramatic levels when it comes to members of the same family working in the company. as i was able to verify just a few days ago, at subercor, a company in santa maria da feira (a suberus, in the shoe area), where workers are struggling because they have not received wages and there are couples who are hungry, who no longer have food for their children. these are dramatic situations of crisis which are plaguing us, but which have consequences on the human face and on people's lives, and therefore not only solidarity but also the call to resolve these serious problems.
in this context of very serious financial and economic crisis it is absolutely essential to move towards the completion of the doha negotiations. in a time of crisis, there is always a tendency to give in to the temptation to be protectionist. protectionism is indeed a kind of neurosis which marks societies and states a little at a time when they are confronted with serious crises, such as the one we are experiencing. we must therefore clearly combat the possibility of the emergence of this protectionist temptation, because we know historically where this leads. it leads to the general impoverishment of the world community and does nothing to solve the serious problems we face. but protectionism, which is totally objectionable and must be combated, is one thing, and the need to ensure the protection of the legitimate interests of the various areas of the world in which we are divided is quite another. the european union also has an obligation to defend the interests of europeans. the interests of europeans as consumers, but also the interests of europeans as producers. that is why it is important to move forward with the multilateral negotiations in the doha framework. if we know that protectionism is indeed a mistake, we also know that the wild liberalization of international trade inevitably leads to very serious disasters from the economic and social point of view. the only way to avoid this unbridled liberalization is to establish an agreement at the headquarters, the world trade organization, a multilateral agreement which establishes rules to safeguard the legitimate interests of all parties involved. the role of the european commission and the role of the european union is precisely this, to restore confidence to europeans here too. there is also a crisis of confidence in europe today in the defence capacity and political control of those who represent it. whether at the level of the member states, the european commission or the european union as a whole. so the challenge we have is precisely this: to help end this crisis of representation and trust by ensuring that we move forward in the best possible way. and the best way forward in this case is to secure a multilateral agreement that safeguards all our legitimate interests.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in the continuation of other initiatives we have proposed to the committee on international trade of the european parliament that an oral question with debate in plenary be prepared on production and employment in the textile and clothing sector in different states of the european union because we consider it urgent and essential. we also proposed that this debate should include the council and be concluded by a resolution of this parliament, but these proposals were not supported by other parliamentary groups. it has been more than a year since the debate in this parliament on 12 december 2007. as we pointed out then, unless measures are taken to protect production and employment in textiles and clothing, we will continue to be faced with the slow agony and destruction of much of this strategic sector. since then, as has been the case up to now, thousands of jobs have been destroyed and many businesses have closed down, with 350,000 jobs and 5% of businesses reported to have disappeared in the last two years alone. this is what the european commission claims to be competing through restructuring, we ask. since then, and as has happened hitherto, workers have continued to be confronted with unemployment, often with the absence of payment of compensation due or with wages not paid, with the intensification of exploitation, with more precariousness, with wages in arrears, with the deregulation of working hours. such a reality has its own causes and responsibilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the textile and clothing industry is not left to the mercy of the market. in the face of this reality, the european union has either been "ears" or has moved forward with mitigating measures that are far from responding to the problems and needs of the sector. for the european commission, unlike other sectors, textiles and clothing are not considered special as it claims. the urgent measures that must be implemented at the level of each member state must also be addressed at the level of the european union in order to deal with the serious problems facing the sector. commissioner, when will binding rules on the affixing of origin labels be implemented, for example by adopting the regulation on the indication 'manufacture in ...'? when will the same safety and consumer protection requirements be applied to imported products as are required for products produced in the european union? how will the european union continue to monitor in real time the development of imports and customs supervision and control, keeping the sector fully informed by claiming safeguard clauses where necessary? how will you use the 2007-13 financial framework, including the so-called globalisation fund, to defend production and employment in textiles and clothing, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises affected by liberalisation? when will we have a monetary and exchange rate policy which does not penalise the exports of some member states? when will the community programme be established, as proposed by this parliament, and when will the financial resources be released for the modernisation and promotion of the sector and the diversification of industrial activity, particularly for the less-favoured regions which depend on it?
madam president, commissioner, this is a very specific case in which the distinction we made a little while ago in the previous debate between protection and protectionism is well applied. the european parliament has voted against protectionism which impoverishes, but protection is absolutely necessary to safeguard the fundamental rights of europeans. this is a very important sector in several regions, in several european countries, such as the region where i come from, the region of northern portugal. it is of crucial importance to the regional economy. it has been a sector particularly exposed to the process of globalisation. and in the context of a serious financial crisis, such as the one we are experiencing, this sector is living through absolutely tragic times. the european union and the member states must pay more attention to the textile industry, opting for defensive measures and offensive measures. the defence measures require the use of all the trade defence mechanisms and instruments at our disposal. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. to defend european producers, entrepreneurs and workers is to defend european citizens and it is also to defend european consumers. that is what we must be aware of once and for all. at the same time, we must use these defensive measures in accordance with principles as simple as those already set out here: the principle of reciprocity and the principle of the permanent fight against unfair competition. we are not asking for the european union, and for the most affected regions of the european union, to be given any special treatment. we are simply asking for rules and for those rules to be based on the fundamental principle of reciprocity. but while the european union and its member states must strive to ensure that the instruments of trade defence which are most appropriate at any given moment are applied without any hesitation, we must also develop policies and offensive measures, as has already been done, to modernise the sector, which is also happening in terms of the development of human resources, the emphasis on vocational training, technological modernisation and the development of territories. there are territories today, and i know one of them well, which is, as i said a moment ago, the northern region of portugal, which are faced with truly tragic situations and must be faced with total frankness.
madam president, commissioner, i will try to put the matter very succinctly. firstly, the question of the european union's special monitoring mechanism for textiles, which, as has been said, expired on 31 december 2008. we need timely and regular publication of statistics on imports, exports and prices, as is the case in the united states. without such data, the european union is unable to react against possible unfair practices and the commission itself is unable to define its strategy. i would ask you to pay attention to that, as other colleagues have done. secondly, production within the european union increasingly requires compliance with safety standards, social standards and environmental standards. reach, for example, is a recent initiative that puts even more constraints on us. it is important that the commission has a clear, discernible and traceable strategy so that imported products have identical requirements. how are these aspects being properly addressed in the free trade agreements currently in progress? and as for 'made in', can 'made in' actually help solve this issue? thirdly, the european union has launched an economic recovery plan to combat the current crisis. what role will trade policy play in this context? what is the commission preparing to do at this moment when a number of other countries, such as china, are beginning to proliferate and increasingly introduce non-tariff barriers to prevent our european imports from accessing chinese markets? what is your proposal for updating or adjusting the globalisation fund and the support available under the structural funds to improve the immediate situation of the european textile industry? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. how can the commissioner make her colleagues and the bodies dealing with european monetary policy aware of the need to rebalance... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, developing a coherent and comprehensive community energy policy is a logical step and a necessary type of intervention. the commission proposal and mrs laperrouze's report are in that direction. the european union will bring added value to the initiatives developed by the member states. oil is finite and the european union and norway's 2007 exploration contributes only 30% to domestic demand. the european union's dependence on oil imports increases indirectly our dependence on countries which are politically unstable or with which any energy partnerships create major geostrategic tensions, as we have recently seen with russia. for these reasons, it is important to reorient the search for alternative energy sources to oil in a strategic way, but also to look geographically with greater commitment at the south american and african markets, which are currently expanding and to which the development of the eu-brazil and eu-africa partnerships can contribute greatly by using the iberian area, spain and portugal where i come from, as a key platform for logistics and distribution in the european area. as regards the fundamental need to enhance energy efficiency, it is important to ensure appropriate synergies between sectors that can contribute to greater energy efficiency. only by adopting a comprehensive and coordinated approach between community and national policies, particularly in the fields of cohesion, agriculture and transport, will we be able to devise a strategy with a long-term vision. the link between energy and territorial cohesion is undeniable as regards possible long-term solutions for all regions of the european union, including the most isolated and outermost regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the general and business aviation sector has not been specifically addressed at european level until now. the political significance of this report is therefore due to the fact that it is the first time that the commission and parliament have dealt with this activity, which is growing rapidly both in volume and in economic importance. the numbers speak for themselves: in business aviation alone, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in this activity is increasing, the number of aircraft is expected to double to 3,500 in the next decade and the annual turnover amounts to more than eur 25 billion. directly or indirectly, it generates 154,000 jobs at european level. together with general aviation, where there are an estimated 30,000 to 50,000 aircraft, the sector accounts for about 9% of all recorded air traffic and is the fastest growing in europe, twice as fast as the rest of traffic. the business aviation segment provides significant social and economic benefits: by providing flexible, point-to-point transport, it increases the mobility of citizens, the productivity of businesses and regional cohesion. general aviation provides essential services in a wide range of areas, from search and rescue, firefighting, traffic control, mapping and recreational and sport aviation. it is also an important source of professional skills for the entire aviation sector. i would also like to say a word to the european industry in this sector, which has been showing a steady growth in its share of the world market, which is currently around 16%, and which therefore needs to be supported. as regards the report, we, as rapporteur, have followed the commission's concern in its communication to address the specific features of the sector and identify its main themes. the first concerns the collection of data and is based on the need to provide policy-makers with sufficient data and statistical information to enable them to know the sector better and thus be able to regulate it properly. the second point concerns the application of the principle of proportionality in its regulation. the central question is whether the rules designed to govern the operation of commercial aircraft will be suitable for the operation of simpler and smaller aircraft, often single-engine. we support the commission's intention to apply the principle of proportionality both in the drafting of standards and in their implementation, always bearing in mind the need not to compromise safety in general. this is the case, for example, with the adaptation of certain airworthiness rules already adopted by the asa to non-commercial aircraft operations, or the possible application of specific rules with regard to simplified security and passenger screening procedures in business aviation. the third point concerns the problem of access to airports and airspace. the diagnosis is made: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the crisis. the solutions range from optimising the use of existing capacity to possibly revising the slot regulations. it is also necessary to stimulate investment in small and medium-sized airports by promoting increasing interconnection between the various european regions and cities. on the issue of airspace capacity, the importance of the single european sky and cesar reforms is underlined and the need to avoid imposing disproportionate requirements on small aircraft in terms of air navigation equipment, while respecting safety limits, is reiterated. the fourth and final point relates to the environmental sustainability of this sector of activity. although co2 emissions from small aircraft are lower, there is still a need to promote research, development and innovation not only in the context of the clean sky and cesar initiatives, but also in the use of less polluting engines and cleaner fuels. i would like to conclude, mr president, commissioner, by expressing the hope that this report will provide a real framework for future legislative and regulatory interventions in this sector. this is the intention of the committee on transport when it asks the commission to give its opinion again by the end of 2009 on the progress made on the issues identified in the report. with tomorrow's vote, i expect that will be extended to a large majority of members of this house.
mr president, mr vice-president barrot, ladies and gentlemen, the 2003 framework decision was intended to approximate the laws of the member states in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. to this end, it has adopted a common framework of provisions to regulate criminalisation, applicable sanctions, protection and assistance to victims, among other aspects. i regret that not all member states have taken the necessary measures to implement this framework decision, and the deadline for doing so has already passed. it is essential that all member states criminalise all forms of sexual abuse of children, that all european citizens who commit sexual offences against children, inside or outside the european union, are covered by a criminal law of an extraterritorial nature, common to the whole union. it is important to ensure that the perpetrators of such crimes cannot escape the clutches of justice. i also support the revision of the framework decision to ensure at least the same level of protection as the 2007 council of europe convention. it is regrettable that not all member states have signed this convention. it is also important to strengthen this framework decision in order to respond to the latest developments in the field of communication technologies. the internet is increasingly being used by children and has become one of the preferred tools of actual or potential offenders, in particular through the solicitation and fraudulent solicitation of children for illicit purposes, grooming, which has already been mentioned by my colleague, mr angelilli, whom i would like to congratulate on the excellent work he has done and on the report he has presented to us. i am not unaware of the complexity and difficulty of this fight, but i believe that it is possible to tackle the sexual exploitation of children with integrated actions and a joint effort where the emphasis is on prevention, by promoting campaigns to raise awareness among parents and children of the risks of child pornography, particularly on the internet and in particular the risk of sexual exploitation in chat rooms and cyber forums.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been adopting in this house a number of initiatives to create a coherent and integrated policy on immigration. this common policy should, on the one hand, involve the opening up of legal channels for immigration and the integration of these immigrants into the host societies, and to this end we adopted two months ago the directive on the blue card and the directive on the single procedure for granting a single residence and work permit. at the same time, we must effectively combat illegal immigration and all forms of crime associated with it. this initiative seeks to combat the factors that attract illegal immigration to the european area and to put an end to situations of exploitation of illegal workers. it is important that those who are trying to enter the european area at any cost, sometimes at the cost of their own lives, understand that there is only one possible way, and that is legal immigration, with all the rights and possibilities that go with it. it is estimated that there are between 5 and 8 million irregular migrants in the european union: many of them are in low-skilled, very low-paid work and sometimes in situations of deep exploitation. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr claudio fava, and especially my colleague, mrs edit bauer, on the work they have done and the commitment they have shown. it's the mark of the quality, rigorous work that we've both grown accustomed to. i therefore support the fight against illegal work throughout the european union. the directive aims to ensure that all member states can introduce similar sanctions for employers of illegal immigrants and enforce them effectively. three types of sanctions may be imposed: financial, administrative and criminal, depending on the seriousness of the situation. it also requires employers to take preventive measures and carry out checks to verify the regularity of the situation of such individuals, in order to prevent them from employing workers who are in an irregular situation in the union.
the fava report is a moment of progress and humanization in immigration law. he leaves us with a moral comfort we owed ourselves since the return directive. the general ban on the employment of illegal immigrants is not only preventing a state of endemic illegality in immigration matters. it is above all to prevent the potential for exploitation and exploitation of the human misery which is generally linked to this kind of employment. the first key point of the fava report is that it rejects the prospect of illegal immigration based on an easy but unacceptable condemnation of the immigrant and opposes a systemic response that makes the state and the employer jointly responsible. because to date, the biggest failure of immigration policies has been the absence of a just response to the dramatic plight of the irregular immigrant. the criminal vertigo that falls on the immigrant, his status as a culprit instead of a victim. the second key point of the report is that it brings to the european public sphere an ethic of shared responsibility between the state and business. the employer's duty of prior supervision, of controlling the worker's residence, has the value of a competence attributed to private individuals which european republicanism has experienced very little. we welcome this competence because the defence of legality and public ethics is not the responsibility of the state alone, but of everyone. the report therefore falls within the bounds of a new political method which other reports will have to follow. the third and perhaps most fundamental point is this extraordinary abstraction which separates the obligation to pay wages from the problem of the legality of residence. it is a simple dictum of universal morality that says that humanity exists before the rules of the legal system and is above them. congratulations on that, mr fava.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gyula hegyi report because i believe that the protection and promotion of wilderness areas in europe must be improved. taking into account the environmental pressures of human activities over the centuries, wilderness areas now represent only 46% of the earth's surface. i believe that it is up to the european commission to make recommendations to the member states, which should include the drawing up of a map and a strategy for europe's wilderness areas.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind that we must protect nature, but through human use. forests now cover 33% of the territory of the countries in the eea region, or 185 million hectares. only about 9 million hectares of forest (5% of the total forest area) are considered selvagens. these areas, together with the native plant and animal communities and ecosystems of which they form part, are in a state of essentially naturalness. these wilderness areas must enjoy effective and specific protection conditions as genetic reserves and as a refuge for many species which cannot survive even in slightly altered conditions, in particular large mammals such as the brown bear, the wolf or the lynx. we have an obligation to ensure that future generations can enjoy and benefit from wilderness areas in europe, but the development of sustainable tourism can be used as a means to add economic value to wilderness areas and to foster conservation support, encouraging the ordinary citizen to discover the hidden values of nature without damaging it, and increasing acceptance of conservation policy, as citizens understand the need for protection through their personal experience, as they help to maintain wilderness areas economically, which can generate employment opportunities for the people in the area.
in writing. − europe's wilderness areas are now reduced to small fractions of what they were in the past and therefore it is a priority to protect them. they should therefore be central to european biodiversity policy and the natura 2000 network should take these spaces into account in order to make the best use of their ecosystem services. i therefore approve the hegyi report, hoping that europe's wilderness areas will be better preserved for the benefit of future generations.
in writing. - long gone are the days when human history was a story of survival in the face of nature's adversity. in our part of the world, while we still have to protect ourselves from nature and its aggressions, it has also become necessary to protect nature from human presence and domination. and we must do it for ourselves, for our interest in preserving the richness of biodiversity, for the need to preserve the planet on which we have been offered to live. it is on these premises that we must look at efforts to preserve wildlife in europe and, in particular, in the outermost regions where such diversity is so important. the same assumptions call for balance and balance in intervention and regulation. if we want to stimulate a new use of rural space, we cannot make the human activities taking place there unbearably difficult. the protection of wild nature, especially where it coexists with human activities, must mean the promotion of balance, conservation and sustainability. we cannot impose an unbearable burden on rural life or the human desertification of an already impoverished territory.
in writing. - we voted against this report because we disagree with many of the proposals which are advocated here, always based on competition and the liberalisation of markets in a strategic area where public policies and public ownership of the main means of energy production were essential. we have nevertheless voted in favour of several proposals. for example, we are also concerned about the safety of fossil fuels such as oil and gas, and the rapporteur's statement that world production will be unlikely to exceed 100 million barrels a day (currently 87) when the needs are estimated at 120 million barrels a day in 2030, and the risk of a deep crisis over the next decade. we also agree that there should be more research in the field of energy, particularly in the field of nuclear waste transmutation and nuclear fusion. however, we disagree with the attempt to put the economic groups of the european union in a position of strength vis-à-vis public undertakings in third countries and the apology it uses to make the lisbon treaty and the call for its ratification.
in writing. - the context in which a strategy is considered, which is desired in the long term, has a decisive influence on the outcome of the analysis and the content of the proposals. the debate on the strategic analysis of energy policy is not without its mark. however, there are repeated indicators in this context which make it more structural than transitory. energy dependence (whether from russia or from the major oil-producing countries) and its consequences; the rising cost of energy, whether due to the increase in its price due to the global increase in demand, or due to the decrease in the purchasing power of states impoverished by a severe economic crisis; the environmental consequences, at various levels, of a steady increase in global energy consumption, which the economic crisis should not reverse, all these factors converge on the need for a strategic approach based on less dependence and therefore greater diversity of both suppliers and energy consumed, greater efficiency, sustained development of research into alternative energies, greater integration and, at the same time, development of local production capacities, namely through alternative energies. it is a huge challenge, but it is a strategic issue that we cannot ignore.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this alternative position put forward by the green group, even though we do not entirely agree with it on one or other point, because it improves the rapporteur's proposal. this is an area where public policies are fundamental and intrinsically linked to the achievement of equality between women and men. the existence of public services and the guarantee of access to quality services for all, regardless of their economic status and gender, without any discrimination, is essential, which presupposes free or semi-free national public health services and free quality public education for all. it is also essential to create and maintain quality and affordable public facilities with opening hours that meet the needs of parents and children, as well as good quality and affordable care facilities for the elderly and dependants. all this is essential to guarantee better living conditions for the general population and to facilitate women's access to the labour market and to paid employment, so as to enable them to become economically independent, which is a basic issue for the emancipation of women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the roberta angelilli report on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, as i consider it essential to update the means of combating all forms of exploitation of children in order to ensure a high level of protection for minors in the european union. i therefore support the recommendations in this report, in particular the proposal to criminalise all sexual offences against children in all member states, to increase the surveillance and control of new forms of solicitation of minors, in particular via the internet, and to set up a missing children alert system to promote better cooperation at european level.
in writing. - as mentioned in the present ep recommendation to the council, the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse (ec convention), which has already been signed by 20 eu countries, is the first international legal instrument to criminalise the different forms of sexual abuse of children, including abuse committed, inter alia, by force, coercion or threat, even within the family. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of children are respected and that the eu's legal framework is strengthened. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people in the context of the european union.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has repeatedly called for the closure of the guantanamo prison. we were joined by the other two institutions: the commission and the council. now that the decision has been made, there can be no misunderstanding of our position. we warmly congratulate president obama on this decision, a decision which he justified by the need to restore to the united states of america the moral authority it enjoyed before the world. let us be clear: the bush administration's decision to open guantanamo as well as its extraordinary rendition program have shaken that moral authority of the united states. the ends do not justify the means. it is unacceptable that international law is violated, that torture is used, that secret prisons are opened and that prisoners are disappeared. in a state governed by the rule of law, prisoners are brought to justice and have the right to defend themselves. it was wrong for the bush administration to commit these abuses, as it was wrong for those who, by conniving applause or shameful silence, were complicit. if the united states of america asks the european union for help, we should not refuse it, as commissioner barrot has said. not by sacrificing the safety of our citizens, but by not using it as an excuse not to cooperate. we also need the cooperation of the united states to help shed light on the atrocities that have been committed in europe, to hold accountable and to ensure that the same crimes are not repeated in the future. how should we ask the member states and the european institutions what they have done to implement the recommendations that this parliament adopted in february 2007 and what explanation they have for not doing so, if any. and since my friend claudio fava has quoted president barroso here, i think he deserves a word of thanks because, unlike the council, which resisted, lied and withheld information from this parliament, the european commission has behaved in a loyal manner and has given full cooperation to our investigations.
mr president, portugal urged an eu agreement on resettling persons from guantánamo, and this is strategic for transatlantic solidarity as well as being a humanitarian gesture towards people cleared of suspicion who endured detention, torture and deprivation of justice. but it is also a duty for 14 eu states which colluded with the bush administration in subcontracting torture to guantánamo and secret prisons, as this parliament pointed out. european responsibility for violations of the rule of law and human rights cannot be erased. president barroso has denied knowledge of the cooperation provided by his government in the transfer of prisoners to guantánamo and secret prisons, yet no one believes that his military, police, intelligence and administration would be so incompetent as to allow portuguese air, sea and land to be systematically abused by the usa. in order to clarify this, will mr barroso make public the notes of the meetings between his diplomatic advisers and ms condoleezza rice while he was prime minister? will mr barroso make public the legal opinion he then asked from his legal adviser mr carlos blanco de morais in order to impose special navigation rules for ships approaching us military vessels carrying prisoners through portuguese waters?
for us, of course, we must applaud the decision of obama, the decision to close guantanamo, to ban torture, illegal interrogations and the suspension of military trials. however, mr president, portugal and the portuguese socialist government do not feel any guilt. the portuguese socialist government did not cooperate with the bush administration, quite the contrary. it is precisely now, with the portuguese administration, with the portuguese government, with the initiative of minister luís amado, that the possibility and the duty of the european union and the democratic countries to welcome and receive the prisoners without guilt formed in guantánamo has been unleashed. that is what is really important, that is what should be highlighted as an example for the other member states of the european union to follow, how important it is that tomorrow the resolution is adopted by all the parties that make up this house so that, in unity, the decision can have more force.
in writing. - the recent decisions of the us administration only confirm - if necessary - what has long been denounced: the existence of a network of kidnapping, abduction, illegal detention and torture promoted by the us. such decisions should not serve to whitewash the responsibilities of the us and eu governments for the systematic violation of international law and the most basic human rights. as before, we must demand a total end to these despicable practices and the establishment of the truth, including the responsibility of eu governments for the use of their airspace and territory for the arrest and transport of illegally detained prisoners, for example to the us military base at guantanamo bay. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are consistently opposed to any agreement between states or between the us and the eu on the 'transfer of prisoners' held at guantanamo. this does not mean that decisions and requests freely expressed by each citizen, in particular requests for asylum in portugal, cannot be considered, in the context of respect for national sovereignty, the portuguese constitution and international law, including the right to asylum.
i am very grateful for the very complete answer which the commissioner has just given me. however, i would like to stress my concern, which is also linked to the current crisis we are living in, on the one hand, as we all know, and on the other hand, without forgetting the election year which could contribute greatly to a certain cooling off in this matter, to some slackening off. however, commissioner, i have the duty to tell you that we must not lose sight of the essential point in our view and the essential point in our view is to avoid that purchasing countries, such as portugal and others, may possibly be put at a disadvantage.
the debate on the oral question to the commission on traditional national, ethnic and immigrant minorities in europe by csaba sándor tabajdi, hannes swoboda, jan marinus wiersma, véronique de keyser, katrin saks and claude moraes, on behalf of the pse group (o-0002/2009 - b6-0005/2009) is now closed.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
we now come to the debate on the oral question to the commission on the right to vote of 'non-citizens' in local elections, by david hammerstein, on behalf of the greens/efa group, alexandra dobolyi, on behalf of the pse group, willy meyer pleite, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, and marian harkin, on behalf of the alde group (o-0007/2009 - b6-0007/2009).
as i did not interpret the honourable member's speech as he intended, i did not use the powers conferred on me by the rules of procedure.
the debate is closed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the karl-heinz florenz report on '2050: the future starts today - recommendations for the future integrated eu policy on climate change', as it presents a series of proposals to the european union, the member states and its citizens with a view to ambitious targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. i would like to stress that the problem of climate change requires a transversal approach at all levels of public policy-making and that investment in green technologies is also a requirement of the current economic crisis which will create more jobs. i consider the outcome document of the clim committee, of which i was a member, to be a very positive contribution to the fight against climate change and to clearly demonstrate the need to reach an international agreement at the copenhagen conference at the end of the year.
in writing. - the report fails to address the essential issue of the causes of environmental abuse: the predatory nature of capitalism. it is simply seeking to spread responsibility to all in order to justify proposals which are fundamentally based on the liberalisation of markets and the burden of costs on users and workers. although the final text adopted in plenary is more restrained than the initial proposal, and there are some positive aspects, we do not agree with other points, in particular when they use the cloak of environmental protection as another opportunity to intensify the ideological offensive, to make people and workers responsible, to commercialise and make all environmental activity profitable. we have therefore followed the vote in favour of some of the proposals put forward by our group and others which aim to give the report a more correct content, but we could not help but express our disagreement with attempts to commercialise everything essential to human life, including air itself.
in writing. - this report brings together the positions of various political parties and sectoral sensitivities, compiling the most recent and reliable scientific data. it is therefore a document of undeniable rigour, comprehensiveness, timeliness and relevance. i agree with the report as a whole, but i voted against the more direct references to the impact of livestock on climate change, because i think they are too much. agriculture should not be ostracized, but rather the production and consumption of local products with less greenhouse gas emissions from their transport should be promoted. i also voted in favour of references to the problems of the agricultural sector resulting from the impacts of climate change, considering that the most adversely affected regions should be adequately compensated. as regards adaptation to climate change, i agree with the urgency of the implementation of the new framework directive on soil protection and with the need to adapt cohesion policy, water protection and the natura 2000 network to the expected impacts. finally, i voted in favour of references to the need to avoid excessive use of the kyoto protocol's flexibility mechanisms, since europe must indeed reduce its emissions if it is to continue to lead the international negotiations and to achieve a global agreement in copenhagen.
in writing. − the range of issues included in the debate on the future of an integrated european climate change policy is enormous and should lead us to seek reasonable, feasible and scientifically sound solutions. a polluted debate, which rejects science beyond the official, which ignores the need for research, which abandons the perplexity of scientific research, turns science into dogma, and dogmas are of little use to policy makers. our priority must therefore be to focus on energy production and consumption that is diversified, efficient, capable of reducing dependencies and capable of ensuring the quality of life we want for all (europeans and non-europeans). we are therefore faced with a major scientific challenge, in which it is for the public authorities to signal the priority of investment in research and development, but also, in particular, in so far as they are market players, to encourage the creation of profitable markets for the most energy-efficient products. climate change calls for a step forward in development, not a step back. let's make that effort.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenge of energy efficiency and information and communication technologies (ict) because i believe that ict plays an essential role in improving energy efficiency, with its use estimated to save more than 50 million tonnes of co2 annually. the potential provided by icts should be fully exploited by member states in order to achieve the objectives set out in the climate and energy package of a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20%, an increase to 20% of the share of renewable energy and a 20% improvement in energy efficiency in the european union by 2020.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report by a czech member of our political group because we consider that it deals with a subject of the utmost importance: the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies. these technologies can be drivers of higher productivity, growth and cost reductions, without compromising competitiveness, sustainable development and the quality of life of eu citizens. we therefore support the proposal to ask future council presidencies to choose information and communication technologies as one of their priority topics and their significance in stopping climate change and adapting to it. we also believe it is important to redouble efforts at all levels of the decision-making process to use the financial instruments available for the development and deployment of new ict-based technological solutions that increase energy efficiency. similarly, given the backlog in the systematic approach to smart ict solutions, it is important to raise awareness with a particular focus on reducing emissions in the development of urban centres, including through the development of smart buildings and lighting, transmission and distribution networks, as well as through the organisation of public transport.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the possibility of receiving guantanamo detainees without guilt, considering that european union cooperation is essential to reinforce international law and respect for human rights and to ensure fair and impartial treatment of guantanamo detainees. we therefore consider that the initiative and willingness of the portuguese government to cooperate with the us administration in the process of closing the guantanamo prison is an example for other member states to follow in supporting the united states in solving this complex problem, within a framework of respect for human rights and the rules of international law.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i think it is inadmissible, in view of recitals d (third paragraph) and f, that the eu should advocate that its member states be prepared to take in prisoners released from guantanamo following an unfortunate and demagogic suggestion by the portuguese foreign minister. in fact, it is unacceptable for eu member states to take in detainees who are considered to be 'potential threats' (recital d), let alone the 61 ex-prisoners who, after being released, engaged in terrorist activities (recital f). since it is not possible to distinguish safely between those which constitute and those which do not constitute potential threats, it is clear that the so-called 'precautionary principle' should not apply only within the framework of reach.
in writing. - although the resolution includes some aspects which we consider positive, in particular that 'the united states bears the main responsibility for the entire process of closing the guantanamo bay detention centre and for the future of its prisoners', it does not clarify the terms in which, in our view, the very serious humanitarian situation in question should be considered. as we have said, we are opposed to any agreement between states or between the us and the eu on the 'transfer of prisoners' held at guantanamo. this does not mean that decisions and requests freely expressed by each citizen, in particular requests for asylum in portugal, are not considered in the context of respect for national sovereignty, the constitution of the portuguese republic and international law. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to effectively combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take effective action to combat terrorism.
in writing. - the difficulty europe is having in dealing with the decision to close guantanamo is a clear indication of the distance between intentions based on sound principles and the reality, which is fraught with difficulties. the closure of guantanamo is good news, both in itself and as a symbol. but this shutdown doesn't solve the problem that it was created to solve, and it didn't solve it either: how do we deal with a threat to national and international security that presents itself with characteristics entirely different from those of traditional enemy combatants, for whom international law was designed and prepared? more than cooperating in the eventual reception of former guantanamo detainees - which may be necessary but must take into account various limitations - europe, the united states and the international community must cooperate in seeking a stable and lasting legal solution to this challenge of international terrorist fighters. without it, guantanamo will be replaced by another bad solution. as regards the reception of former prisoners, in addition to the duty of coordination at european level, it would be advisable not to receive those who would not otherwise be granted visas for security reasons. goodwill and caution should be the criteria.
the financial crisis has brought credit paralysis; it has affected businesses and households; in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. in this context, exceptional measures are justified, particularly in the case of strategic sectors such as the automobile sector, which accounts for 6% of employment. however, almost the whole of the programme for the relaunch of the european economy, for which i have the honour of being rapporteur on behalf of this parliament, is based entirely on national initiatives. how does the committee ensure that there is coordination on the ground and that countries do not start a war of support? what mechanisms are in place to safeguard employment in countries that do not have the financial backing to secure the jobs that are vital to them? for some countries, textiles or electronics are as important as cars! what intervention can be expected? does the commission think that it will be more aware of the role of european industry in europe's survival? there are limits to what can be expected from the european investment bank - will we have the budget to meet europe's challenges?
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0006/2009). the following questions were put to the council.
since we are already very late, i propose that the council should answer all the supplementary questions together. as you know, i can only accept two supplementary questions in addition to the original author's. i have therefore chosen two of the five questions based on the criterion of differentiation by political group and nationality. i have chosen in particular mr philip bushill-matthews and mrs silvia-adriana ţicăue.
question no 2 by mr medina ortega (h-1035/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: basis for a new world trade agreement following the breakdown of the multilateral trade negotiations in the doha round last summer and the agreements reached by the group of 20 at the washington summit last november, does the council consider that there are grounds for the european union to put forward new trade proposals that are acceptable to the developing countries?
question no 3 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-1038/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings the council proposed a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and an improvement in energy efficiency by the same proportion. it also proposed that 20% of the energy consumed in the european union should come from renewable sources. now, 40% of all greenhouse gas emissions come from buildings. improving the energy efficiency of buildings can therefore make a significant contribution to reducing these emissions. in november, the commission proposed a revision of the energy efficiency directive in this sector. given the importance of this issue to citizens for its potential contribution to reducing electricity and heating bills, can the council indicate the priority it intends to give to the issue of energy efficiency in buildings during the period january to april 2009?
question no 4 by mr burke (h-1040/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy, external relations and the economy during the czech presidency in the light of the priorities announced by the presidency for its term of office, can it indicate how it intends to integrate the three priorities in terms of concrete initiatives? the author of the question refers specifically to the discussions with the eastern partners on strategic energy corridors that can ensure the eu's energy security and economic competitiveness in the future.
question no 5 by avril doyle (h-1044/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: tobacco control and smoking cessation the who framework convention on tobacco control is the first international health convention signed and ratified by the european union and all member states except the czech republic. since the czech republic will take the lead in the discussions on the who framework convention on tobacco control, what are the czech presidency's plans for ratifying the convention?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
question time to the council is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate it is important to take account of the need to improve the conditions and support for information and promotion measures for agricultural products, both in the european union and in third countries, by extending the scope of the proposals put forward by the european commission. we therefore support the proposals of the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture, in particular those aimed at greater involvement and strengthening the role of the professional associations and organisations operating in the sector, in accordance with their competences and importance in terms of quality assurance and control, including the associations and organisations of the member state drawing up the programme, as well as the increase in the percentage of the community's financial contribution. it is important that there should be additional support, especially for projects selected by the member states. we also believe that promotion and publicity measures in third countries should be able to benefit other important productions besides olive oil and olives, particularly wines with a protected designation of origin or geographical indication. i would like to remind you of the important role played by farmers' associations, particularly cooperative wineries and other associations of small and mediumsized farmers, whose existence is essential to ensure the disposal of the produce of farmers who cannot survive on their own. and once again i call for increased support for these farmers' organizations to play their full part in defending family farming and promoting the good quality agricultural products they produce, which are indispensable to ensuring a healthy diet for the people of our countries. we shall therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − member states need to promote the image of their agricultural products both to community consumers and to consumers in third countries, in particular with regard to quality and nutritional information, food safety and safe production methods. i agree that in the absence of programmes proposed by agri-food organisations, member states should be able to establish programmes and select, by means of an award procedure, a body to implement the programme. the commission proposal, in so far as it allows member states to draw up national programmes, will improve existing legislation. i welcome the dumitriu report and welcome the inclusion of the wine sector in this proposal.
in writing. - the majority of the ep has already become accustomed to passing resolutions without legislative consequences, with content contrary to the legislative resolutions it adopts. the closer the ep elections are to the european elections, the more likely they are to be. we are faced with an example of these "two faces", the real one and its mask, in this case the latter. there is no doubt that - and we have long and consistently advocated this - it is necessary to guarantee the rights of asylum seekers in respect of reception, access to information and the right to interpretation, free legal aid, health and employment. it is certainly important to point out that the number of people detained under the dublin system is increasing, with the almost systematic use of custodial measures and restrictions on access to reception facilities. however, it is also necessary to demand the end of detention centres and to reject a community policy which sets, at the lowest common denominator, reception standards and the procedure for granting asylum. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the granting of asylum is the ultimate gesture of a state, and of an entire community, assuming the inability to defend human rights globally and the willingness to act, nevertheless, in accordance with this scale of values. its regime must therefore be clearly distinct from that of immigration. the more one tries to extend the concept to include what does not belong to it, the less its value will be, and the confusion can only harm legitimate asylum seekers. it is therefore important that the rules are clear, the procedures are swift and the treatment is dignified in all circumstances. while there is a need to coordinate actions and options, asylum, in numbers, in scale and conceptually, does not raise the same issues as immigration, even in a space without borders. the member states have their own traditions in the field of asylum and this difference should not be ignored in the context of the coordination referred to. as regards the applicants to whom asylum is or should be refused, this conception, which is based on a generous but restrictive idea of asylum, cannot produce any less humanity in the reception and treatment of people who will always be vulnerable because of their condition.
in writing. - it is no coincidence that, as the european parliament elections approach, resolutions of intent are being issued in an attempt to avoid the responsibility of the policies adopted by the eu (in particular, in the last 5 years) for the very serious situation in which most micro, small and medium-sized enterprises find themselves, particularly in portugal. smes, not large transnational corporations, are the victims of the eu's market liberalisation (as if a framework of 'survival of the fittest' could be in their favour...). many smes 'participate' in 'international trade' because of their dependence on large transnational companies, for whom they produce at prices that often do not correspond to production costs. it is clear that trade defence instruments, intellectual property rights, designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products must be safeguarded (and applied) and that the internationalisation of smes must be supported. so why is it that the majority of political forces represented in the ep, which corresponds to the majority represented in the commission and the eu council: do not adopt the 'made in' regulation; do not apply to imported products the same safety and security requirements as those required for products produced in the eu; do not use the financial framework 2007-2013 to defend production and employment by supporting smes?
in writing. - at a time when the world is looking for a response to the global economic crisis and protectionist tendencies are on the rise, as was the case recently with the discussion on the 'buy american' clause in the united states congress, it is the duty of governments and community institutions to safeguard the interests and ensure that the rules applicable to smes and international trade are respected. the value of accessibility to international markets for european smes is clear. as the studies show, when these companies operate in the non-eu market they tend to acquire good practice, to innovate and to be more competitive. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. at the same time, this claim must be valid with regard to third countries. international trade is only fair if it is fair to both sides.
in writing. − e-commerce is a great business window for smes and young entrepreneurs. it allows for the overcoming of non-traditional technical barriers by enabling access to otherwise inaccessible markets. for the same reason, this type of trade ensures even greater participation of ldcs in international trade circuits. however, the inclusion of these partners depends on the creation of basic infrastructure to which we should contribute unconditionally. it should also be noted that piracy, counterfeiting or data breaches are not intrinsic to this type of trade, but are rather adaptations of old practices. with the necessary adaptations, we must ensure all the certainties of traditional trade. the legal web around electronic commerce is a dispersed one, prohibiting a reductive view: the governance of the internet, which is not yet subject to an adequate structure that is internationally respected, as well as questions of private international law or taxation. at the wto level, everything is confused for electronic commerce, and despite various requests and insistence, negotiations on this type of trade continue to be drawn up in dangerous bilateral compartments.
in writing. − the internet has assumed an increasingly important role in business relations and international trade. however, serious shortcomings remain in the protection of users and consumers, with regard to the protection of their personal data and the quality assurance of the service provided or the product purchased. the report, although it mentions these facts, does not make any proposals to improve the protection of users and the quality of the service provided by the use of an imminently public service such as communications. the main objective of the programme, which incorporates a number of aspects which we welcome, is to promote the development and use of electronic commerce as a facilitator of international trade and as a means of overcoming the current difficulties in opening up markets. in other words, its primary concern is to facilitate and promote electronic commerce, i.e. the production, promotion, sale and distribution of products via telecommunications networks, in the interests of the liberalization of world trade. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i am in favour of the compromise reached and i consider the new regulation to be very positive, as it will make it possible to harmonise the conditions for the placing on the market and use of feed and ensure that adequate information is provided to both livestock producers and meat consumers, thus ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. i would stress the importance of the 'open declaration', a list of substances used in the food mixture in descending order of their relative weight, which will help to maintain a high level of confidence among farmers and consumers. on the other hand, the production companies will now have clearer rules for placing animal feed on the market, and it will be easier to prevent possible criminal practices.
in writing. - once again, due to the resistance of a number of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, despite being obliged to use 'politically correct' language, the ep majority cannot hide the real matrix and intentions of the economic partnership agreements (epas) between the eu and the acp countries. while article 36 (1) of the cotonou agreement enshrines the conclusion of 'trade agreements compatible with wto rules, progressively eliminating obstacles to trade and strengthening cooperation in all trade-related fields', the eu's aim is to go beyond what is currently established and achieve what has not yet been achieved in the wto, even if the 10th european development fund is used for this purpose while at the same time reducing official development assistance. i mean, trying to get in through the window after you couldn't get in through the door. the eu is seeking trade liberalisation, from which its major financial and economic groups seek to secure open markets, sell goods and services, exploit raw materials and impose an export-oriented production model in their own interests. we need a different policy which promotes effective independence, sovereignty, cooperation, solidarity, development and social justice.
in writing. − the aim of this resolution is to whitewash the eu's support for the illegal unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo. the european parliament has called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu, and for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu. the existence of a 'pseudo-state' under 'supervised sovereignty', protected by the eu/nato through, inter alia, its 'eulex' mission and its 'vice-kings', the 'civilian international representative' and the 'eu special representative', who hold judicial, police and customs power and 'responsibilities of an executive nature' and oversight, constitute unacceptable acts of a neo-colonial nature. the resolution states that 'the most important task of the european security and defence policy (eu) to date' is a flagrant violation of the un charter and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. some of those who called for respect for international law, for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of georgia are, after all, the same people who promoted and supported the aggression against yugoslavia. this resolution is just another example of the hypocrisy and cynicism of the majority in the ep.
in writing. − the eu has been china's largest trading partner since 2006 and china has been europe's second largest trading partner since 2007. china currently holds 6% of world trade. the prc has come a long way since the report i had the honour of presenting to this house in 2002. however, it seems that many of the issues that then needed to be fixed still persist, although somehow they have been offset by significant progress. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. china and the eu have been negotiating a partnership and cooperation agreement since october 2007, with results to be seen. given the european support in many aspects of international trade, china should not be breaching wto commitments. barriers have been introduced in the form of rules and regulations restricting access for european companies in strategic sectors. in november, the prc declared its intention to abandon the 2007 double-checking system for imports of textiles and footwear. the statistics available do not facilitate discussion, but we may be faced with a commercial controversy.
in writing. - since it is impossible to assess the many issues raised by this resolution, we consider it essential to stress that we advocate the deepening of real and effective cooperation relations between the eu and china, based on responding to the needs of different peoples, mutually beneficial and contributing to mutual development, respecting the principle of non-interference and respect for national sovereignty. on the basis of these principles, although the resolution contains some points which we share, we clearly reject it because it takes on the neoliberal matrix, in particular by pushing for the continuation of trade liberalization, in this case with china. the resolution, while ignoring the very serious consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, encourages the continuation of the opening of markets between the eu and china, insists on efforts to speed up wto negotiations and 'stresses that the new eu-china partnership and cooperation agreement should aim at the establishment of free and fair trade'. as is evident from other similar ep resolutions, the aim is to meet the needs of the eu's large economic and financial groups for expansion, which is in contradiction with meeting the needs of workers and smes in the different eu countries, particularly portugal.
in writing. - the debate on trade relations with china always refers to the question of human rights in that country. it's understandable, you know. the objections raised by the relationship with china are understandable in the light of various assessments, in most cases acceptable. the perception that china's economic growth is unparalleled in respect for human rights and democracy in that country, and in its international performance, the exploitation of labour, an incomparably less demanding labour regulatory framework, disregard for environmental issues and for rules on intellectual property and patents, all these factors are hindering an open trade relationship marked by respect for good international rules. however, this trade is there, it is growing. china's role in the contemporary world economy is undeniable and its participation in overcoming the current crisis is indispensable. it is therefore necessary to press for respect for the rules and principles of international trade, for equal access to markets and for the defence of democracy and human rights, without denying the reality of growing interdependence. on the contrary, we must make the best of this circumstance, even to better influence this great country.
in writing. what should (and is not) the 'eu role in the middle east'? what principles should be guided by? demand an end to the aggression and the inhumane blockade imposed on the people of the gaza strip and ensure urgent humanitarian aid to the palestinian population. condemnation of the brutal aggression, the crimes, the violations of the most basic human rights, the state terrorism perpetrated by israel against the palestinian people, which nothing can justify. it is an unequivocal denunciation that in palestine there is a colonizer and a colonized, an aggressor and a victim, an oppressor and an oppressed, an exploiter and an exploited. suspension of the association agreement and of any strengthening of bilateral relations with israel, as decided at the eu foreign affairs council on 8 and 9 december. we must demand that israel respect international law and comply with un resolutions, and that the occupation, the settlements, the separation wall, the killings, the arrests and the numerous humiliations inflicted on the palestinian people be brought to an end. demand and strive for respect for the inalienable right of the palestinian people to an independent and sovereign state, with the 1967 borders and its capital in east jerusalem! in essence, to cease being an accomplice to the impunity of israeli colonialism.
in writing. - after more than 18 months of an inhumane blockade, the 22 days of brutal israeli aggression against the palestinian people in the gaza strip have left at least 1 324 dead and more than 5 000 wounded, many of them children. more than 100,000 people have been displaced and more than 15,000 homes destroyed. basic infrastructure and essential public services have been destroyed or dismantled, putting in question the ability to respond to the most basic needs of the palestinian population. in the face of this heinous crime, the european parliament has not a word of condemnation for israel. there is no doubt that aid to the palestinian people is urgent. there is no doubt that the suffering of the palestinian people must be acknowledged. however, it is imperative to denounce and hold the aggressor accountable. the resolution insists on the whitewashing of israeli aggression in the gaza strip, hiding it in what it calls a 'conflict'. the european union is not prepared to accept the palestinian people's right to selfdetermination, but to accept the right of the palestinian people to selfdetermination. the eu, always so quick to invoke human rights, soon "forgets" them in relation to israel, which has been colonizing the palestinian territories of the west bank, gaza strip and east jerusalem for more than 40 years.
portugal shall be guided in its international relations by the principles of national independence, respect for human rights and the rights of peoples, equality between states, the peaceful settlement of international conflicts, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states and cooperation with all other peoples for the emancipation and progress of mankind. portugal advocates the abolition of imperialism, colonialism and all other forms of aggression, domination and exploitation in relations between peoples, as well as simultaneous and controlled general disarmament, the dissolution of political-military blocs and the establishment of a system of collective security with a view to creating an international order capable of ensuring peace and justice in relations between peoples. i refer to article 7 of the constitution of the portuguese republic to highlight how far and deeply contradictory the european union is to these principles - the european union which is taking on itself as the european pillar of nato, in partnership with the usa, to better promote the militarization of international relations, the arms race, interference and aggression with the aim of ensuring domination and the sharing of markets and natural resources by the great powers.
i thank the rapporteurs ari vatanen and von wogau for their work and consensus-building efforts, particularly on the difficult subject of nuclear doctrines which the european union and nato must urgently review, at a time when president obama is reviving the objective of freeing the world of nuclear weapons and two european nuclear submarines are on the verge of catastrophe. the vatanen and von wogau reports point to the need for a european union which is politically, strategically and operationally autonomous, through an ambitious esdp. we need the institutional, financial and operational instruments to achieve these objectives. we therefore call for close cooperation between nato and the eu, based on respect for the political autonomy of each of the organizations, which are complementary. we therefore call for the establishment of a permanent eu headquarters in brussels, capable of planning and conducting military operations of the esdp autonomously. we therefore call on the member states of the union to intensify their efforts to spend their national defence budgets, which are not very good on their own, in a better, more efficient and more european way. the message from this parliament is unequivocal and serves as a warning. without a europe of defence, defence in europe is in question. our defence industries could be at risk. the capabilities that europe needs to exercise its responsibility to protect civilian populations and prevent massacres and genocide could be at stake. europe as a global actor in crisis management may be at stake. the extension of european political integration to security and defence, as envisaged in the lisbon treaty, is urgent and needs to be accelerated. it is not only in the interest of the european union but also in the interest of nato, as both organisations will reap the rewards of a europe better equipped to deal with the growing challenges to the security of europeans and to global security.
i thank mrs napoletano for her excellent report. fourteen years after barcelona and five years after the first euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, we have the union for the mediterranean with economic power, with parliamentary power, with civil society, with heads of government deciding together. all of them wanting to do more and better in a territory where 720 million citizens represent a potential for development and peace for the world. it is a clear mistake to confine ourselves to the economic and business side. responding to growth crises naturally requires a political response, but responding to humanitarian crises, emergencies and military crises such as the one experienced in late 2008 and early 2009 is crucial. politicians and citizens have to give answers to the world's problems. the world has asked for answers and months later we, citizens and politicians, especially on a platform such as the union for the mediterranean, are still delaying in reacting. i hope that at the very least this moment has been one of learning and moving forward, because only those who make mistakes learn, but moving forward in speeding up the reaction is absolutely crucial.
in her speech, commissioner ferrero-waldner summarised the objectives of the new union. in fact, this union was born under the french presidency under the sign of mistakes. first mistake: he has removed from his agenda the conflicts in the region, in particular the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict in western sahara. second misconception: it wants to assert itself by sharing economic and environmental projects, without questioning the free trade context in which it operates. third mistake: it suggests the possibility of transferring turkey's application for membership of the european union to the union. mrs pasqualina's report does not address the first misconception, and that is its limit. no economic and regional integration will come to fruition unless politics has the courage to address existing conflicts and to do so on the basis of international law. the report does, however, contain clear recommendations on the second and third misunderstandings, and these are all in the right direction. the union for the mediterranean cannot be the waiting room or the back door for turkey, provided that it meets the accession criteria, and the union for the mediterranean cannot be an addition to the european free trade strategy without any social integration policies. the report's recommendations are important: a union with a citizen and representative dimension involving the arab league; regional projects with a social dimension; the extension of projects to areas essential to people's lives: water, agriculture, education. there are also clear rules in the programme agreements and a euro-mediterranean bank. the union was born equivocal, but it is there. i support this report because i believe that this union will eventually be what we are able to make it. i give you the benefit of the doubt.
a large part of the issues of major political importance to europe pass through the mediterranean basin. the union for the mediterranean initiative is therefore worthy of our support, since it can give new impetus to a process which is necessary and useful, but which has not had the necessary success or visibility. the question is how we can pursue this strategy. the model followed in barcelona did not have the expected results. can this new partnership work? the report by mrs napoletano is in line with this view. but we hope that the union will not suffer the same damage as the barcelona process. there are many projects, many areas of intervention, but a poor hierarchy of priorities. to relegate social and cultural understanding between the peoples of the two sides of the river to paragraph 26 of the report, to leave the subject of democratization and the promotion of human rights for paragraph 27 and migration flows for paragraph 28, after much talk about other sectors and other subjects, is to give the wrong signal as to what the priorities of this partnership are, or should be. it's important to have a clear strategy. we believe that this strategy must involve offering our neighbours more benefits, more cooperation, but also asking them to deliver more in the economic, social and democratic fields, and concentrating on well-defined sectors, perhaps in smaller numbers, in order to avoid all areas being given equal priority at the same time and at the risk of none being given priority in the end. and, of course, doing so with the proper financial support and framework. the recognition of the need for an investment bank for the mediterranean must finally be met with a favourable response. you have to be ambitious, which means doing well within your means. finally, mr president, a word on the conflict in the middle east. this process, which is not an alternative to peace negotiations, can and should contribute to better understanding, interdependence and mutual respect between the belligerents. these are essential factors - we all know this - for the pacification of the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. − the opinion of the committee on women's rights stressed the need for greater attention by all member states to ratification of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, as well as all other un and international labour organisation instruments in the field of human rights. the situation of women was also addressed, and it was regretted that the position of the commission communication did not give it special attention, particularly in the 'projects' dimension, where it should include the promotion of geographical, economic and social cohesion and should always take into account the issue of equal opportunities for men and women and the gender perspective. finally, i would like to stress the concern about poverty and social exclusion, which mainly affect women. i would like to leave a final word on the serious cases of palestine and western sahara, where women and children are the main victims of war, exploitation and, in short, of the whole process of discrimination which affects these peoples and which affects women and children in particular.
i would like to bring up today the scandalous situation of corticeira amorim in portugal, whose profits over the last two years have exceeded eur 30 million, with over eur 6 million in 2008. however, this month the amorim corticoid plant announced the dismissal of about 200 workers, citing the effect of the crisis, forgetting that it was they who helped build the group that is worth many millions and that received public support, including community funds, for the millions of profits it still has. so here i leave my protest and indignation against this announcement of dismissals, which is a scandal, and i hope that everyone will join me in repudiating this exploitation of the crisis to fire workers even when companies continue to maintain high profits.
i would like to apologize to mr alexandru nazare because, by mistake of the bureau, we did not give him the floor when he was registered for the normal part-session. i'll give you the floor after the "catch the eye" period.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 february 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr thijs berman, on behalf of the committee on development, on the financing of actions not related to official development assistance in the countries covered by regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 (2008/2117 (ini)) (a6-0036/2009) follows.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it is crucial to solve the current legislative gap concerning the financing of non-oda actions in countries covered by the dci. this proposal for an instrument to address this gap must preserve the dci unequivocally as an instrument for oda and it must allow for a clear separation between financial sources allocated to pure oda development cooperation and those allocated to other types of non-oda development cooperation with developing countries. this separation is a very relevant political message in itself and it would give proper visibility to the eu’s development cooperation policy. the new or revised instrument should also be sufficiently broad to cover a wide range of actions that do not comply with the oecd dac guidelines but which are crucial for the eu’s cooperation with developing countries, for instance the development of the akkas gas fields in iraq or cooperation on aviation security with india. this is why i am not in full agreement with the restrictive legal basis proposed. i fully back commissioner ferrero-waldner in finding article 181a, possibly, a more adequate legal basis, which would provide for these kinds of concerns that i am highlighting. however, i am not convinced either by the alternative presented by the ppe-de group amendment that we are supposed to vote on tomorrow. therefore, i hope that, under the guidance of our rapporteur, thijs berman, we may find more time to have a thorough discussion on this matter and consider what is the best legal basis, namely, the proposal made by commissioner ferrero-waldner.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 february 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the report by mrs teresa riera madurell, member of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the community legal framework for european research infrastructures (eris) (com (2008) 0467 - c6-0306/2008 - 2008/0148 (cns)) (a6-0007/2009).
the interest in adopting this proposal for a directive lies mainly in the way it can help to stimulate economic activity at local level and support actions at the social level. this application of a reduced rate is of great importance in the housing sector, both in construction and renovation, allowing member states that adopt it to reduce the cost to the end user. the provision of local services, particularly by small businesses, can also benefit from this reduction in the vat rate, securing and generating more and better jobs by encouraging the consumption of goods and services, thus stimulating the economy itself. the restoration industry, which is essential for the proper functioning of local economies, and the increase in tourism itself can thus benefit greatly at local level from this reduction in vat. these services, ladies and gentlemen, must not be allowed to circulate on the european internal market, which will help to reduce the reservations of some member states which have already been noted in the council's plan. i cannot therefore agree to extend this reduced rate to equipment, whatever the pretext. the prudent way in which this proposal is to be dealt with in the european parliament should not give the governments, which have some reservations about the european commission's proposal, the pretext to use in practice the veto right which european legislation still confers on them in tax matters. so here we must prudently reject amendments which make little sense and which only make it more difficult to accept the text. as has been said here, not only is the perfect the enemy of the good, but the all-winner loses. this proposal for a directive is important not only for the strengthening of local economies but also reflects the ambitions repeatedly expressed by several member states. we therefore support the commission's proposal as it has been put forward, and that was the vote of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, with my agreement. i welcome the work of the rapporteurs and i call for this proposal to be adopted in the exact terms in which it was submitted by the commission and voted on in the parliament's committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
in writing. today's debate and vote on reduced vat rates will send a clear signal to the council, in line with what the intergroup on the family and child protection has been insisting on for years. among the various amendments i support, i would like to highlight those which directly affect products for children. it is an important measure to support families with children, reducing unfair tax burdens on them. i welcome the commission's proposal to settle once and for all the absurdity of the diaper dispute and the question of baby seats for younger children. but it is also important, as the ppe group has advocated, that the reduced vat rate can be applied to footwear and children's clothing throughout the eu and not just in the member states which had such a scheme in 1991. we call on the council not to fall behind parliament and to go as far as it is necessary to go in understanding the legitimate needs and aspirations of families. i hope that we are finally at the successful conclusion of a long struggle and insistence by civil society and members of this parliament in defence of the family's tax rights, which should not be penalized for the children it gives birth to, supports and educates.
madam president, i would like to second the rapporteur. following the debate we had here yesterday, and in view of the commission’s contribution, i very much agree that we need more discussion and that we need to find a proper legal basis for actions that are not pure oda actions – but are still very important for development cooperation with developing countries – and therefore do not fall under the other instruments regarding cooperation with industrialised countries, nor under the current dci. it is also very important to freeze the money foreseen for the dci for cooperation in accordance with oda criteria, so i support our colleague mr berman in his request for more time for consideration.
in writing. − the report takes up the objectives of the 2007 green paper on the european research area: 'develop world-class research infrastructures'. the european strategy forum for research infrastructures (esfri), mandated by the council, started preparing a coordinated strategy for research infrastructure activities in april 2002. although the aim of the proposed legal framework is announced to be to facilitate the establishment of such infrastructures, practice has shown that, in general, the most beneficiary countries are the most developed. so we are not disputing the importance of simplifying the creation of world-class research infrastructures in europe and the added value they can bring in terms of the quality of research and teaching, the links between public and private researchers and their overall positive socio-economic impact. but we cannot accept that the creation of large infrastructures will only create more opportunities for achieving excellence in research in various fields, which will lead to certain countries being the main beneficiaries of the process. we want everyone to benefit, even those who cannot set up centres of excellence, to enable the democratisation of research in the most diverse fields. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - during the debate on this report we sought to improve its defence of the rights of workers in all sectors. we therefore welcome the fact that our proposal, which now appears in the european parliament's resolution, is as follows: 'grant the representatives of workers in the public administration and in public and financial sector undertakings the same rights to information and consultation as other workers'. we hope that the member states will take this into account by ensuring that all workers have the same rights to information and consultation. the report is generally positive, stressing the need to strengthen the rights of information and consultation in the various member states. we also expect the european commission to present an evaluation report on the results achieved through the implementation of directive 2002/14/ec on the strengthening of dialogue. as regards mergers and acquisitions, they could have gone further in the aftermath than they have done at other times, in particular when they approved our proposal to guarantee workers' representatives throughout the restructuring process of companies, particularly industrial companies, access to information and the possibility of decisive intervention, including the right of veto, in the event of companies not complying with their contractual obligations.
in writing. - we made a number of contributions by participating in the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs and we put forward a number of proposals to improve the rapporteur's initial position. we have not always succeeded in getting our views accepted, and the final decision falls short of what would be desirable. but we recognize the important role of the various forms of the social economy, the richness of the diversity of their institutions and the specific characteristics they have with different needs, and we advocate their support, but we consider that this cannot call into question the quality of public services, particularly in areas where the social economy also plays a significant role. we recognise that the social economy can contribute to strengthening economic and social development and greater democratic participation, especially if it is supportive and does not serve to undermine universal public services accessible to all. it must be borne in mind that the social economy cannot replace the public ownership and management of public services, but can be an important complement.
in writing. the report also calls for the development of a european strategy for the prevention of and treatment of mental illness. poor mental health, on the other hand, degrades the quality of life of individuals and their families and has implications in the health, economic, educational, social security, criminal and judicial sectors. today, there is a growing awareness that there is no health without mental health. it is important to reflect on some of the data that the report points out, namely: - one in four people have some kind of mental disorder at least once in their lives - depression is one of the most common disorders: it affects one in six women in europe and is estimated to be the most common disease in the developed world and the second leading cause of disability by 2020 - the eu has a high rate of suicide, with an estimated 59 000 suicides per year, 90% of which are due to mental disorders. vulnerable groups such as the unemployed, immigrants, people with disabilities, people who have been abused, people who use psychotropic substances are more likely to have mental health problems. the joint approach to the challenges of mental health is very important and should be taken as seriously as physical health.
in writing. − energy efficiency is essential if the eu is to reduce its energy bill and is a valuable tool for mitigating oil dependence. all nations have much to gain from the sharing of each member state's experience in this field, comparing methodologies and strategies, even if properly framed in the context of each region. for portugal, i regret that the measures being implemented have not been presented to the commission in the framework of a coherent and complete action plan within the regular period, making my country one of the few that have not done so, preventing the sharing of solutions. this first evaluation of the national action plans is a benchmark for eu dialogue and a useful tool for member states to translate the spirit of energy efficiency into pragmatic measures that deliver the expected results by 2020.
in writing. − several member states are drawing up action plans, but there are shortcomings in the achievement of energy efficiency targets. it therefore seems fair to propose that emphasis be placed on the effective implementation of energy efficiency measures, in particular the development of best practices and synergies and better information and advice for end-users. but we must not forget the support that must be given to those who have the greatest economic difficulties. it also seems appropriate to examine in detail, in the context of the review of the action plans planned for 2009, the extent to which they cover all possibilities for savings in the area of energy efficiency, without compromising the sovereignty of each member state. this analysis should serve to monitor the difficulties and, if necessary, take appropriate supporting measures, aiming at the proposed energy efficiency target. it also seems important to support provisions that reinforce the role of the public sector as a role model and recognition of the immense potential for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and for combating climate change, both in terms of adaptation and in combating the causes of climate change.
in writing. − in december 2006, the european parliament and the council adopted an important resolution on the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013). i am glad that i mentioned at the time the enormous importance of ensuring more and better technological development in the field of fisheries and aquaculture. i therefore consider this ep own-initiative report to be timely and of great importance for the pursuit of the objectives of the new cfp reform. the cfp is one of the community policies most dependent on scientific research, since the credibility of the measures adopted under this policy depends on the existence of high-level scientific advice. the technological development of vessels, fishing gear and engines will also be able to ensure the sustainable development of the sector in the future, by improving environmental protection and ensuring the competitiveness of fleets. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - scientific research into fisheries is essential for an appropriate fisheries management policy, which should take into account the social, environmental and economic components of this activity, which is essential for ensuring food security. it should not only assess the state of fisheries resources and develop models to predict their evolution, but also contribute to improving fishing gear, vessels, working conditions and safety of fishermen and to assessing the impact of different fisheries management systems/instruments on employment and income of fishing communities. however, if scientific research in fisheries is to meet the objectives and needs it is essential that the necessary resources, including financial resources, be made available by the eu and each member state, and we therefore support the recommendations in this regard contained in the report. however, we believe that the development of scientific research necessarily requires the development of its human resources, which implies guaranteeing the rights of these professionals with regard to employment contracts - combating the precariousness of employment ties faced by many of these researchers -, fair remuneration and access to social security schemes, among other labour rights that assist workers.
in writing. − the situation of numerous species of cetaceans, despite the efforts and initiatives undertaken by the iwc (international whaling commission), remains a matter of concern, with many of them at risk of extinction. the issue of whaling for scientific purposes remains a 'cover' for the capture of these mammals, which is why the eu should intervene to review this international position. supporting the continuation of the moratorium opposing all proposals for new types of whaling, accepting that all whaling activities undertaken by iwc members should be under the control of this committee, and supporting proposals to end the practice of 'scientific whaling' outside the control of the iwc, are some of the premises of this report which i consider to be fundamental. ensuring that the eu has a political position on this issue and taking a leading role in pursuing objectives related to respect for biodiversity and sustainable development of our planet are key objectives that the eu should embrace. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - regardless of the need to strengthen procedures to combat the use of illegal labour, it is unacceptable that the current directive punishes both the offender and his victims. the aim of this directive is to supplement the shameful 'return' directive - which the ps government has approved - by applying sanctions to employers of irregular workers and by establishing as a general rule and automatically the procedure for the expulsion of these workers, with rare exceptions. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to vote to the candidates who are not in a position to do so. this directive does not adopt as a principle and central safeguard the protection of migrant workers who, when faced with unacceptable situations, report them. it also fails to fully guarantee the rights of these workers by stating that 'where late payments are not made by the employer, member states should not be obliged to comply with this obligation'. by failing to safeguard the rights of irregular migrant workers, by failing to provide for their regularisation in general and by exposing them to the threat of expulsion, this directive will increase the vulnerability of the situation of these workers and encourage even more covert illegal work situations. a directive which once again exposes the eu's inhuman immigration policy and which merits our rejection!
in writing. the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises - which represent 99% of the union's enterprises, are responsible for more than 100 million jobs and have created 8 million jobs in the last eight years alone - is central to the small business act. the present diploma illustrates the measures taken. it allows certain companies to benefit from a reduced rate of vat, while at the same time attempting to solve the parallel employment market and calling for the creation of legitimate businesses. in order to facilitate the operation of smes, we cannot infringe on essential principles of the union. in this case, the single market is protected by applying the rules of this document to companies operating only locally, avoiding market distortions. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report, which i regard as a perfect example of the policies to be adopted by the european parliament in the economic field.
in writing. − in 2007, the european parliament, following the inquiry carried out by the commission i chaired, adopted a resolution containing dozens of recommendations aimed at preventing the repetition of these illegal actions. a process of evaluating the application of those recommendations is now under way, following a methodology proposed by me. the president of the ep recently sent a formal request for cooperation to the presidents of the national parliaments and a hearing will be held shortly. the adoption of a new resolution before the process is complete is a hasty move that generates errors: the error of speaking too soon when there is nothing new to say; the error of giving in to the urge to use it to target people or to make domestic policy; the error of starting by criticising barack obama when we should be investing in the relaunching of transatlantic cooperation and benefiting from the change in the us administration. i shall therefore not be able to vote in favour of this resolution. i shall also be unable to vote against a text which recalls the essential values of respect for human rights, the rule of law and the search for truth. so i will abstain.
in writing. − i did vote for keeping the reference to portugal, including the reference to the responsibilities of the barroso government, despite the fact that i think that the text of that paragraph could be more accurate and mention ‘new factual information’ and not just ‘press information’.
in the light of the recent events in the middle east, the european union has taken a number of measures to help the people of the region. - 'the commission denounces the failure to take any action ... to clarify the extraordinary deliveries programme'; - 'urges the member states, the commission and the council to assist in ascertaining the truth by initiating investigations or cooperating with the competent bodies, and to ensure effective parliamentary control of the activities of the secret services'; - 'calls on the eu, the member states and the north american authorities to fully investigate and clarify abuses and violations of international and national law on human rights, fundamental freedoms, the prohibition of torture and ill-treatment, enforced disappearances and the right to a fair trial in the context of the 'war on terrorism', with a view to establishing accountability ... and to ensuring that such violations are not repeated in the future ...'; the resolution does not, however, demystify or denounce the fundamental issue, namely the so-called 'fight against terrorism', nor does it condemn what it calls the 'limited maintenance of secret rendition regimes and detention centres' by the us. we need a clear condemnation and clarification of the truth, as the pcp proposed in the assembly of the republic and the ps, psd and cds-pp rejected!
in writing. - as with the other two reports discussed and adopted at this plenary session, this one is equally full of ambition. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and to ensure that the eu is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. the report (and resolution) is a genuine agenda for the objectives, priorities and interests of the eu's major powers, whether in the balkans (kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina), eastern europe (caucasus, black sea, belarus, georgia, russia), the middle east (gaza strip, iraq), the mediterranean, central asia (afghanistan, iran), africa (chad, sudan, somalia, democratic republic of congo), asia (china) or latin america. this includes everything from the most blatant violations of international law, interference and interventionism, to the thinly disguised ambitions of the eu's great powers to dominate politically and economically. this is the real content and meaning of the so-called and widely propagated 'role of the eu in the world', that is, its ambition to share the domain of zones of influence, markets and natural resources with the usa and japan.
in writing. - as the debate and report on the cfsp show, the european union's ambition in terms of foreign policy is broad. as reality clearly shows, the eu's role in the world does not correspond to this ambition. and yet not only is it increasing, but in most cases the member states agree and act in collaboration. the shared values, principles and priorities of the 27 member states of the european union are much broader than moments of disagreement might suggest. as you'd expect. that is why i am in favour of strengthening agreement on our priorities and criteria for action. but the recognition that there are differences which are fundamentally the result of the existence of different interests and priorities does not lead me to conclude either that the eu is irrelevant in the world or that it is necessary to impose a single foreign policy on all member states, against their interests or even their history. a community is built, and this process, even if slow, is more likely to succeed than the will to impose a uniqueness that is not indispensable.
in writing. - like the report on 'nato's role in the eu's security architecture', this report (and resolution) reaffirms its objective of affirming and consolidating the eu as an offensive political-military bloc, in partnership with the us, within nato. among other important (and clarifying) aspects, this report (and resolution) reaffirms nato's offensive and comprehensive concept, considering that "the updated european security strategy and the future nato strategic concept must be coherent and this should be reflected in the declaration to be adopted at the nato summit in strasbourg/kehl in april 2009" and, going further, "calls for the creation of an eu operations headquarters (...) ". the report (and the resolution) is a genuine denunciation (no matter what its intention) of the militarization of the eu and the so-called 'lisbon treaty' which institutionalises it. those in ireland who denounced the militaristic nature of the treaty and rejected it, whose ratification would mean further militarization of international relations, more arms race, more interference and war, are right. those who, in portugal, like the pcp, rejected this treaty and demanded a referendum and a broad national debate on its grave consequences for the country, europe and the world, for peace, are right.
in writing. - looking around europe, it is clear that the european union has, and should have, its own strategic priorities and concerns in the field of security. geography is a force to be reckoned with, geopolitics is a force to be reckoned with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is a statement of european responsibility. if we want security, we have an obligation to be available to bear the burdens it imposes, whether they be material or human. it also requires an agreement on what is common and shared in this security concern and burden. security comes at a price, and the demand for more multilateralism from our allies comes at an increased cost. the times ahead will be demanding in this area. europeans can no longer be consumers of security without paying for it.
in writing. − i declare that i voted in favour in the final vote on the vatanen report on the role of nato in the security architecture of the eu.
in writing. the european parliament's report and resolution, which are both puzzling in some ways, are a must-read. this is a text which clarifies - if there were any doubts - one of the central objectives and axes of the eu and its proposal for the 'lisbon treaty': its militarization and consolidation as a political-military bloc within nato, that is, in partnership (cooperation and rivalry) with the usa. the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world with a parliamentary mandate, is also the only institution with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one with a parliamentary mandate, and the only one without a parliamentary mandate. in this context, they welcomed 'the french initiative for a formal return to nato's military structures and the efforts made by the french presidency in the council of the eu to bring the eu and nato closer together in response to new security challenges'. a report (and resolution) to match the imperialist ambitions of the eu's major powers...
in writing. − europe's geographical situation imposes its own security priorities and concerns. but the integration of europe and the 27 member states into a set of values and a model of society that we call, in the broad sense, the western world, is also defining the threats and our security context. for this reason, the alliance that most eu member states share with the united states, among others, is and must remain a central element of our security. in the year of the 60th anniversary of the atlantic alliance, it is time to rethink its strategic concept and adapt it to the new reality. after the end of the cold war, it is time to move beyond the end of the end of the cold war and adapt concepts to the new reality that is forming: the emergence of the pacific, the greater relevance of asia, the role that russia is seeking to redefine for itself, the threats posed by failed states and global terrorist groups, among others. let us therefore seek to be an active part of this strategic redefinition as full partners of the atlantic alliance.
in writing. - despite its careful language, the report is guilty of what it objectively and consciously omits or tries to hide, for example its failure to denounce and condemn the systematic and brutal violation of international law and human rights by israel - which colonizes the occupied palestinian territories and oppresses the palestinian people - and by morocco - which colonizes western sahara and oppresses the saharawi people. the report exposes the eu's unacceptable immigration policy and its inhuman, criminalising, security-oriented and exploitative character of immigration. the commission also welcomes the fact that the agreements between the eu and the mediterranean countries provide for the financing of centres for immigrants. the report also makes it clear that the model it advocates for the so-called 'union for the mediterranean' is, after all, that of the eu itself, guided by the liberalisation of markets (including energy) and capitalist competition, seeking to ensure the political and economic dominance of the great powers. the aim should therefore be to 'achieve a euro-mediterranean free trade area' and not a 'euro-mediterranean partnership ... based on equal treatment, solidarity, dialogue and respect for the specific asymmetries and characteristics of each country' as we proposed in an amendment we tabled. that is why we are voting against it.
yesterday was international women's day, which was marked against a backdrop of a profound worsening of the situation of women, especially working women, who continue to suffer from inequalities and discrimination. at the moment, millions of women and young girls are faced with a sharp deterioration in their living and working conditions, poverty reforms, redundancies, unemployment, precarious and low-paid work, the spread of poverty and social exclusion, with a strong impact on segments of working women, pensioners, women with disabilities, who are denied the right to have rights in matters crucial to a life in dignity. so, in addition to greeting all the women of the european union and the world, i leave here the call for urgent measures and new policies to guarantee women their rights as full citizens in work, in the family, in society and in politics. it is essential to create the conditions for women to have rights, to guarantee the right to be mothers and workers without penalty and to receive fair wages and pensions that allow them to live with dignity.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in view of the worsening crisis in the european union and the absence of any objective and effective measures at community level to deal with it, the european parliament, after having agreed last december to a budget for 2009 of some eur 8 billion below that defined in the financial framework for 2007-13, now wants the final budget for 2010 to be closer to these ceilings. the minimum that the european parliament could say, however, is, in our view, very little. the budgetary limits imposed by the present financial framework, which limits the community budget to 1% of community gni, are clearly insufficient to achieve the policy of economic and social cohesion that is being promoted. however, these insufficient limits are not fully used for this purpose, or even respected, let alone fully enforced. the continuing under-budgeting and under-implementation of the structural and cohesion funds, which are two years behind schedule in their implementation, calls for the adoption of a set of measures to ensure the implementation of these financial means, all the more so when the european union and its neoliberal policies are at the epicentre of the causes of the current economic crisis. in the face of rising unemployment, social inequalities and poverty, we reaffirm the urgent need to, among other measures, strengthen the financial means for the structural funds and the cohesion fund, speed up and ensure their full implementation, increase the rate of community co-financing and repeal the application of the n+2 and n+3 rule in these funds, as well as their use for the defence of employment with rights and the enhancement of workers' purchasing power, effective support for small and family farming and fisheries, the defence and development of the productive sectors of each member state, particularly of the cohesion countries, and effective support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the cooperative sector.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this report on smes we have tried to emphasize the importance of smes, including family businesses and those integrated into the social economy. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs herczog, because her report is important in this area. other documents and texts have been produced in this area and it is important that they converge. i would quote the european programme eurostars and the report on pre-commercial contracts. madam president, the report also highlights the many ways in which bureaucracy can be reduced to facilitate the creation of such enterprises, by taking advantage of their capacity for initiative, by facilitating the launching of new businesses, by involving the manufacture of new products, by the operation of new services adapted to the needs of consumers and other enterprises, and thus by promoting the development of the european economy. but i would like to mention something which i think is very important, and that is what is referred to in paragraph 47 of the herczog report. it is advisable to improve certain aspects of the legal and taxation systems of the member states in this area, as the current model in most states may discourage the transfer of companies, in particular family businesses, by increasing the risk of liquidation or closure of the company. it is therefore necessary to carefully review its legal and tax framework in order to improve the conditions for the transfer of companies and to promote and implement effective models of transfer of companies to workers as an alternative to their closure. such action would make it possible to safeguard jobs and reinvest profits for the better development of these enterprises. finally, i would stress that support for innovative projects by small and mediumsized enterprises, easier access to european funds and improved access to credit, including, but not limited to, the circumstances we are living in, will be important factors in supporting smes.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, since the tampere conclusions, much has been done to harmonize the member states' legislation in the area of asylum. however, this harmonization was done on the basis of the lowest common denominator, with very different practices and procedures persisting. there are still no equal conditions for access to protection throughout the union, which leads to problems such as secondary movements and multiple applications. in 2008, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, the number of refugees increased to over 12 million people. it is therefore necessary and urgent to start the second phase of the common european asylum system. there can be an identical level of protection throughout the union only if there is a single asylum procedure, for reasons of efficiency, speed, quality and fairness of decisions, and uniform rules on the conditions for qualifying as a refugee or a person in need of international protection. only then can asylum seekers be treated in the same way, regardless of the member state in which they make their asylum application. i therefore welcome the presentation of this action plan on asylum, which has been contributed to by a number of public actors and which sets out the roadmap for the coming years with a view to the implementation of the common european asylum system. i welcome the amendments which are intended to be made to the directive on reception conditions, the directive on asylum procedures and the qualification directive in order to clarify the criteria for qualifying for international protection. i am pleased that commissioner barrot has stressed the need to ensure coherence with other policies that have an impact on international protection and i hope that the same coherent vision will be extended to other common areas. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, giusto catania, on the work he has done, which will deserve the approval of the epp-ed group.
madam president, this is a brief point of order on this week's agenda. the 11th of march is the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism. this day was first proposed by this parliament in a vote on 11 march 2004. we were then discussing a balance of the area of freedom, security and justice. that was the day of the tragic bombings in madrid. the original proposal was for 11 september, but in view of the tragedy that occurred on that day, parliament voted to make it 11 march. the european council, a few days later, on 25 march, if i remember correctly, adopted this date as the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism. we have a plenary session tomorrow, 11 march, and i saw on the agenda that there is not even a single recall. i wonder if something is planned on this subject at this week's sitting.
in writing. − member states remain responsible for controlling their borders, but only a global and common policy approach will address the fundamental challenges of managing borders and migratory flows. an area without internal borders cannot work without a sharing of responsibility and solidarity in the management of external borders, especially when we take into account that the eu's external borders are crossed by more than 300 million travellers every year. a genuine integrated border management must be able to meet two fundamental objectives: to strengthen security and to facilitate the crossing of borders by persons seeking to enter legally and for legitimate reasons. but we cannot continue to approve new and important initiatives without a detailed master plan for the eu's border strategy. it is also necessary to assess existing systems in order to consider whether there is an effective need to create new instruments, their feasibility, reliability, interoperability and costs, and whether the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals is taken into account in the most appropriate way.
in writing. - a legal system that is permeable to fraud, difficult to enforce and often not enforced, is an invitation to violation - if not to simple ignorance - of the law. in view of the available data, this is likely to be one of the difficulties of the different european immigration legislation. it is well known that the deterrent effect of a legal provision depends more on the likelihood of its application than on the penalties attached to it. these concerns imply the recognition of the need for european authorities to cooperate in the enforcement of existing legislation and also in the attempt to adapt the legal frameworks to the reality described in several reports. finally, both in the name of solidarity and in the name of fairness, it is necessary to stress the need to take account of the burden that the management of the external borders represents for the member states concerned.
in writing. − although in some cases the reasons for someone deciding to immigrate may be similar to those for asylum seekers, the two systems must be sufficiently distinct, both in legal terms and in terms of administrative procedures. this important caveat being made, one point to be taken into account is that, by virtue of the effective opening of borders within the schengen area, what is decided in one state on this matter may have implications in another. at the same time, the idea of europe can be seen as a whole in the eyes of an asylum seeker who sees the 'european union' as a homogeneous space and, in his perception, opposite to the danger he is fleeing. finally, an asylum seeker fleeing a real threat to his life will hardly be able to choose the point of entry into europe or be able to carry out the necessary administrative procedures required of an applicant for immigration. all these considerations make coordination and collaboration between member states necessary. it is not clear from the foregoing that asylum should be transformed into an alternative gateway to immigration, much less a way of avoiding the illegality of certain migratory flows.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report as it underlines the breadth and persistence of inequalities between men and women in the performing arts and their impact on society as a whole, insisting on the absolute need to promote and encourage women's access to all artistic professions in which they are still in a minority. as the report points out, the percentage of women in artistic professions and official positions in the field of culture is low and women are underrepresented in positions of responsibility in cultural bodies and in academies and universities where some arts are studied. we therefore agree with many of the proposals here, stressing the need to promote women's access to all the arts and other professions in which they are in a minority, and encouraging member states to remove the barriers to women's access to management positions in cultural institutions as well as academies and universities. we also stress that discrimination against women hinders the development of the cultural sector, because it deprives it of talent and skills, and we note that talent needs contact with the public in order to be recognised.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to review and bring together in a single text seven separate directives on industrial emissions. the commission proposal claims to provide for an integrated approach, aiming to integrate environmental aspects into the licensing of installations as comprehensively and as balanced as possible, with the aim of effectively limiting emissions through best available techniques (bat), the application of which should be more consistent than hitherto. as the report says, this legislative process may have implications for 52 000 industrial plants in europe, and we have therefore supported some proposals for derogations for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which should not be subject to the same obligations as large industrial units. but we are in favour of greater intervention in industrial units with incinerators and co-incinerators and greater supervision than the european commission proposes. the amended text thus gives some value to public consultation and the role of environmental ngos, also takes account of the interests of micro and smes and takes away some discretion from the european commission, which is why we voted in favour of it in the end, hoping that in portugal there will be greater government intervention in supporting and monitoring air quality.
in writing. − the wide differences in the legal systems of the member states often impose very costly procedures for companies wishing to start their activity abroad, especially smes with smaller structures. the creation of this degree is another step towards removing these obstacles, especially in a sector which is crucial to the european economy. the creation of the 'european private company' allows smes to establish their subsidiaries with the same status, regardless of the country in which they are based, doing business in their country or abroad, with the same degree of ease. the time and money that this measure, under the small business act, saves smes points to a clear direction for future european enterprise policy. for these reasons, the psd meps support the report.
in writing. - in the face of the worsening economic and social situation in the various member states, the eu has not yet taken any effective initiative other than to protect financial capital. immediate action at community level is urgently needed to help meet the needs of workers, the productive sector and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises effectively by mobilising the necessary financial resources. however, the eu debated and passed a 2009 budget as if nothing was happening - a community budget that, in relative terms, is the lowest since portugal's accession to the eec - once again demonstrating its class character. the ep has been unable to hide from the reality of the depth of the capitalist crisis (and its policies). the resolution now adopted thus timidly states that the community budget for 2010 should be closer to the limits set in the financial framework 2007-2013 - which is clearly insufficient and not even being complied with - while also recognising that the category of expenditure is 'insufficient'. as 'a boiled cat in cold water is afraid', let us hope that this pronounced concern and intention are not just momentary sighs, in view of the elections to the ep, and that, as always, the ep does not remain only for the good intentions.
in writing. − we welcome the fact that language issues are now seen by the ep as a 'key principle' of its priorities for the eu budget for 2010: - stresses the fundamental principle that all member states should have access to comprehensive and quality services enabling them to work, express themselves and obtain all documents in their mother tongue (...) - considers that every effort should be made in 2010 to ensure that members of all nationalities and languages are treated equally in the possibility of performing their duties and exercising their political activity in their own language, if they so wish; - i know . stresses, (...) the principle of the democratic legitimacy of all members and their right to full multilingualism; considers, therefore, that the budget can and should be used to achieve this objective (...) ; however, we must not forget that the proposals put forward by the cpp members in the budget - requiring the availability of all the official eu languages at meetings (whether these are held in the community institutions or in external meetings within the framework of parliamentary work) - have been successively rejected over the years.
in writing. - despite the good intentions expressed, the report maintains and even goes into greater detail about the policies which are at the root of the problems experienced by many small producers, particularly in portugal. in the name of what they call 'promoting the quality of european agricultural products', they are increasing production costs for those who are already having difficulty maintaining their production, especially small producers, such as the small or very small cheese factories producing serra da estrela cheese of undeniable quality. it is unacceptable that, in addition to the fact that producers have to face new requirements to continue producing without the appropriate financial compensation, they should also be burdened with the costs of the requirements of 'official control' of health. contrary to what is being said, production of real quality is in serious danger of disappearing. it is unacceptable to apply harmonization of production and marketing standards to both small producers and agro-industry. the application of these standards is ruining the productive and cultural diversity of countries like portugal. it is important to reverse this trend and promote local production and consumption and to consider agriculture as a sensitive activity which is not compatible with this model of commercial liberalization, which is unsustainable from an environmental point of view and poses enormous risks to human health.
in writing. - i agree with the report, because i believe that we need to reduce the bureaucracy and complexity of the system of standards, so that the regulation and quality control of agricultural products can be made easier. this simplification would therefore lead to a reduction in administrative costs for public entities. i also welcome the special attention given to designations of origin and the request to the commission to bring this issue to the wto agenda.
in writing. - we voted against the report, as they did not even accept a proposal to raise concerns about the abuse of market dominance by large companies, particularly in the case of large supermarket chains, which abuse their purchasing power to force down prices paid to suppliers in the european union and in third countries. nor have they shown the determination to investigate the impact of the merger in the supermarket sector on small businesses, suppliers, workers and consumers and, in particular, to assess the abuses of purchasing power which may result from this merger. the resolution adopted maintains the full line of action in defence of competition and against public services, following up on the infamous bolkestein directive, and always insisting on the need to comply with the rules of the internal market. and, unfortunately, even when he talks about the crisis and the difficulties of the economies, he insists on the commission's vigilance so as not to jeopardize competition. in other words, in the face of the crisis that neoliberal capitalism has caused, the solution is more of the same, which is unacceptable.
in writing. − although 99% of eu enterprises are smes (23 million) - responsible for 80% of new jobs created in the eu in recent years - the rules normally created are mostly aimed at the 41000 large european companies, fostering obvious imbalances in terms of competitiveness. it is time to reverse this trend and invest in the sectors of the economy where wealth is truly created, with a merit-based reward policy, putting european smes alongside their counterparts abroad. moreover, due to its flexible nature, smes are companies accustomed to being at the forefront of innovation in their fields, so the sba is an important step forward in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. - despite all the phrasing and apparent good intentions in defence of smes, the report has other objectives, namely: to promote free competition, the internal market, that is, in fact to support economic and financial groups; to insist on the liberalisation of services, including public services, and, under the cover of pseudo-support for small and mediumsized enterprises, to increase the exploitation of workers. in fact, on behalf of 91.5% of the companies in the european union, which employed fewer than 10 people in 2003, they want better conditions to destroy essential public services, deregulate the labour market, and call into question social and labour rights. it's neoliberalism in its most visible role. we therefore voted against the report in favour of effective measures to support micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, of a different policy that safeguards their role and important contribution to industrial, agricultural and fisheries production, to employment with rights, to trade and to meeting the basic needs of the population.
in writing. - it is well known that smes account for more than 90% of jobs in europe, but with the crisis many of their workers have already fallen, or will soon fall, into unemployment. the commission's move to speed up procedures for the structural funds is a welcome sign. globalisation coupled with the current crisis has altered many of the circumstances that have underpinned decisions taken at european level in the past and that were considered correct at the time. in this light, i believe that, for example, some aspects of regional and cohesion policies should be reviewed. we must also examine the financial conditions for smes, which are crucial, especially when they have to repay loans in times of low economic activity. i therefore support this report because it is precisely at this time that we must think about smes and their contribution to innovation, economic growth and employment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now finishing the discussion of the third package of measures on maritime safety, erika iii. this process is over three years old and in it we strongly advocate for more safety for passengers, oceans, seas and shipping lanes. as a portuguese and a madeiran, you will appreciate that i have been particularly committed to this debate and its main objectives. ensure that member states consistently fulfil their obligations as members of the international maritime organisation, adopt the conventions of the organisation and fully implement the mandatory provisions. the negotiation process was difficult. for parliament, the erika iii package has always been a package and never a set of measures that are not being implemented. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we have now reached political agreements on six of the eight proposals. my proposal and that of my colleague gilles savary were left open. we have now reached agreement that these two proposals will also be included in the final text of the erika iii package. thanks to parliament and its perseverance, the slovenian and, above all, the french presidencies, to whom i am grateful, and finally the common will of all, we can now conclude this third maritime safety package, in which it is important to emphasize the ratification of international conventions by the national method, a position which i advocate with respect to the different systems of ratification existing in the different member states. pending the mandatory adoption of the imo audit regime, member states shall submit their maritime administrations to an imo audit and publish the results thereof. member states shall establish an internationally certified quality management system for maritime administration activities. before allowing a ship to fly its flag, member states shall ensure that international rules and standards are respected. member states shall ensure that ships flying their flag which are subject to port state vessel inspection are brought into compliance with the applicable imo conventions. if a flag of a member state is included in the black or grey list of the paris mou for port state inspection of ships for two consecutive years, the state is required to submit to the commission a report on the reasons for its performance. in parallel to the common position, member states will confirm their willingness through a joint declaration to ratify the main international conventions on maritime safety by 1 january 2012, to apply the imo flag state code and its maritime authorities audit system and to encourage the imo to strengthen compliance with these two instruments worldwide. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this third maritime safety package is an important victory in the european legislative process. the commission, the council and the european parliament have proposed, debated, reconciled and agreed a text that improves the lives of citizens, businesses, promotes greater safety on the seas and oceans and prepares our future. i'm honored to be a part of this process. when we vote on this package in the near future, we will be honouring the victims of all past and recent maritime disasters, from prestige to erika, from bolama to estonia, and helping to prevent or mitigate the consequences of similar events in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the french presidency for giving us the opportunity to see this package through to completion and, in particular, its vice-president tajani and the commission for the important contribution they have made to the final stage of the negotiations. i would also like to thank all of you for your comments and contributions and to extend a special greeting to all the rapporteurs, especially my colleague jaromír kohlíček and, if i may, rosa miguélez ramos, the shadow rapporteur, for ensuring that disputes between member states such as the one that occurred with the prestige do not happen again and that everyone recognizes their responsibility when the worst happens. i would like to thank mr paolo costa, with whom i have worked throughout the process, especially on the report on the responsibilities of passenger carriers, as rapporteur for the socialist group, for ensuring that all means of maritime transport guarantee the protection of their passengers, that means of financial compensation for passengers are in place when the worst happens and that those potentially most affected are also the most protected quickly and even in advance, regardless of the fault. sufficiently clear, accessible and informed legal remedies are available. as i have said, the adoption of this third maritime safety package is an important victory in the european legislative process. the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a text that improves the lives of all, promotes greater safety on the seas, oceans and inland waters and prepares our future. by voting on this package tomorrow, we honour the victims of all past and recent maritime disasters and we honour citizens and businesses. i hope, mr vice-president, that what will be agreed tomorrow in this package will be implemented so that citizens can turn the expectations now created into effective reinforcement of security and their rights.
mr president, the revision of the eurovignette directive should be an instrument to stimulate more sustainable and environmentally friendly road transport. we have simply, in my view, taken the wrong path with the result achieved in the commission. we have not chosen measures to encourage more sustainable transport of goods. instead, we have sent the wrong message at this time of global crisis, through a review which will only worsen the already precarious situation of many transport companies, largely small and mediumsized enterprises, which constitute the majority of the european business fabric. we know that measures that aim to combat pollution or that stimulate technological innovation, such as cleaner engines and smart vehicles, are key. the problem, which raises serious difficulties, is the imposition of a congestion charge. the so-called rush hour is primarily caused by local motorists travelling for work, business or leisure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of a new system of charges for congestion. we are still acting unilaterally, for example, by not taking action on the differentiation of working hours, accident prevention or road planning and maintenance, and by calling into question the very mobility that defines our societies and the market economy. we are also contradicting other measures taken to promote the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union. for my country, portugal, and for all the peripheral countries, this measure is nothing but a measure to strangle economic activities, since we will be mere net contributors of any toll. finally, mr president, with this tax we are undermining the important environmental objectives, leading many small and mediumsized enterprises to greater difficulties and even bankruptcy, thus directly contributing to the increase in unemployment and social instability in european societies. the choice is ours, and let us have no doubt that we will be called to account for the consequences of our decisions.
i thank all those involved, and especially my colleague el khadraoui, who has worked very hard with great openness and availability of consensus channels. the proposal under discussion will allow member states to introduce charges to cover certain environmental externalities and to generate significant revenues to be used to improve the european road network and minimise the environmental impact of part of road transport. on the other hand, it could represent enormous costs, especially for the most peripheral countries, such as portugal, where i come from, which is why i urged copel and strongly opposed the mandatory extension of the geographical scope to all road axes. i also opposed the application of the costs of congestion for only a few, a measure which creates unfair competition and decriminalises those who pollute the most, while recognising the need to account for these costs. the application only to transeuropean road networks or to routes used regularly and significantly by international freight transport, leaving it to a member state to determine which routes it introduces any charges on, is a minor evil which could be further minimized by an application of this proposal postponed beyond the difficult global crisis we are currently experiencing.
the question period (b6-0009/2009) is now closed, and will exceptionally continue until 8 p.m. i should like to begin by informing you that commissioner kovács will not be present, and that questions 1 and 3 of the first part of this question time, which are addressed to the commissioner, will be taken over by commissioner reding. the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 31 by silvia-adriana ţicău (h-0068/09) subject: measures to promote products and services that contribute to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy at the 2008 spring european council, heads of state and government decided to reflect on the possibility of reviewing the energy taxation directive to promote an increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption. increasing energy efficiency is one of the fastest, safest and least expensive solutions to reduce the eu's dependence on energy sources from third countries, to reduce energy consumption and co2 emissions and to reduce the energy bill payment costs of european citizens. in the context of the need to increase energy efficiency, can the commission indicate what measures and financial and fiscal instruments it envisages to promote products and services that contribute to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy?
question no 32 by mr giorgos dimitrakopoulos (h-0100/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: more flexible interpretation of the stability and growth pact the commission is asked whether, and why, at a time of such severe economic crisis, it persists in its view that the deficit reduction of all countries facing this problem should be achieved within a period of two years rather than three, which, according to the available data, seems to be the more logical timeframe. how does this insistence reconcile with the view of the eurogroup president in favour of a more flexible interpretation of the stability and growth pact (statements of 20.1.2009 to the europe agency)?
madam member, we shall indeed be finished at 8 p.m., as scheduled. we started later and we'll finish later. but there is no supplementary question, it seems, from mrs avril doyle? would you like to put your supplementary question, madam deputy?
member of the commission. − in answer to the question by mr dimitrakopoulos, the commission, when proposing the deadlines for a member state to return to a sustainable position of public finances, will take into account the room for manoeuvre available to the member state concerned. a call for rapid fiscal consolidation can be expected only in cases of danger of a public finance crisis, taking into account the financing needs of the whole economy. as for the second question, which was a double question, the answer to the first part is ‘no’. the answer to the second part – on countries with low corporate tax – the stability and growth pact assesses the global fiscal position of a member state, not the specific tax structure of each member state. in reply to the third question, on whether there are any member states without excessive deficit, there are of course certain member states without excessive deficit, as can be seen in the charts which the commission regularly publishes.
question no 33 by mr pedro guerreiro (h-0125/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the end of tax havens has the commission already proposed or does it intend to propose the end of tax havens, particularly in the european union? has the eu taken any decision to propose to its member states the closure of 'tax havens' on their territories? what measures will the commission take to put an end to tax havens, to combat financial speculation and to curb the free movement of capital, particularly at eu level?
member of the commission. - mr president, since the end of the 1990s, the commission has pursued a determined policy of combating fraud, tax evasion and harmful tax competition. a key element of this policy is the promotion of transparency in tax systems and the exchange of information between tax administrations. recently, this policy has been confirmed by clear statements by the g20 to attack the non-transparent practices of certain jurisdictions, often described as tax havens. the commission reinforced its policy in this area in late 2008 and early 2009 by presenting two proposals. the first is to strengthen the exchange of information provided for in the savings directive. the second proposal is to propose that all member states align their standards for exchanging information to the most open level, in particular by ensuring that banking secrecy cannot be invoked by a member state to refuse to provide information that other member states would need for the taxation of their residents. in may 2008, the council decided to promote this policy of good tax governance covering the principles of transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition to third countries and instructed the commission to negotiate clauses in agreements with third countries. the commission intends to present a political initiative in the near future to highlight the coherence of this policy and the key elements to ensure its success. the commission considers in particular that the implementation of coordinated measures at european level would be likely to respond to the concerns expressed by the honourable member.
in view of what has been said, it seems that "there were more voices than nuts", that is, "tax havens" and their end are not in question, but i would ask the following question: how does the commission intend to dissuade banks from operating in offshore centres, and how has it disclosed this intention? and what effective measures do you propose to combat the financial speculation which is at the root of the present financial and economic crisis?
question no 35 by mr eoin ryan (h-0055/09) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: information and communication technologies (ict) and the information society the commission has placed the development of icts and the information society at the heart of its programmes, which hold great potential for the european economy and society. however, what steps is the commission taking to ensure that certain categories of european society - in particular the elderly or people with low incomes - are not left behind or even forgotten in this process?
question no 36 by mr gay mitchell (h-0065/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: control of the internet i have found that the internet has become a safe haven for racists and other bigots to express their views. has the commission addressed this issue? if so, what measures are you taking? questions 37 to 40 will be answered in writing.
question no 41 by mr bernd posselt (h-0061/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: serbia and the status of candidate country the granting of eu candidate status to serbia is a recurring topic of debate. is it not dangerous to grant serbia the status of a candidate country or even of an eu member state before granting it to the republic of kosovo, since belgrade could use this advantage to block future accession negotiations between the eu and the republic of kosovo or any other form of relations?
question no 42 by sarah ludford (h-0072/09) subject: the use of the term 'customer' in the context of the european union subject: accession of serbia will the european commission state explicitly and firmly that it is impossible to make further progress on serbia's accession to the eu unless ratko mladic and goran hadzic, the two remaining fugitives from the icc, are handed over to the hague?
questions 43 and 44 will be answered in writing.
question no 45 by mr yiannakis matsis (h-0095/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: seizure of greek cypriot property in the occupied part of cyprus with turkish funding the former foreign minister of cyprus, erato markoulli, has publicly denounced a wave of usurpation of greek cypriot property in the turkish-occupied carpathian peninsula, with funding from turkey. mrs markoulli is taking part in the talks on the settlement of the cyprus problem and has obviously been aware of this situation in this context and on the basis of other information. turkey, a candidate country for eu membership, which is at the same time the occupying power of part of the territory of an eu member state, the republic of cyprus, is organising the usurpation of heritage belonging to european citizens and is thus violating international law, individual rights and eu values and principles. how does the commission describe this policy of turkey? is this policy acceptable for a country that is applying to join the eu? does the commission intend to take action against turkey, and what action, for the usurpation of the property of greek cypriots in the occupied part of cyprus?
question no 46 by mr vural öger (h-0106/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: opening of the energy chapter in the eu negotiations with turkey the latest gas crisis between russia and ukraine once again highlights the importance of diversifying the eu's energy sources and energy transport routes. turkey, a candidate country for accession, is a strategic transit country and, as such, very important for the eu's energy security. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu's energy negotiations with turkey are conducted without friction and are not blocked for political reasons by certain member states. does the commission intend to make efforts to open this chapter? can you give a timetable for this? what is the main obstacle to a smooth opening of the energy negotiations? questions 47 and 48 will be answered in writing.
question no 49 by marian harkin (h-0041/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: support for the market in early january, the commission committed itself to taking further measures to support the dairy sector and producer incomes across europe in an effort to counteract some of the negative consequences of the current economic crisis in this sector. does the commission intend to make similar commitments to help other agricultural sectors and producers who are also being hit by the current economic crisis? question no 51 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0053/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the dairy sector in the eaec the commission has presented measures to help the dairy sector. the commission will re-introduce export refunds for butter, skimmed milk powder, skimmed milk powder and cheese. in addition, the commission will buy more than the fixed quantities of butter and skimmed milk powder if the market situation so warrants. does the commission believe that these measures will be sufficient to put an end to the spiral of falling prices in the eu and which particularly affects the irish dairy sector?
question no 50 by mr liam aylward (h-0051/09) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: labelling of sheepmeat products there is currently no specific community legislation on origin labelling for the sheepmeat sector. for this reason, there are many different labelling techniques for sheepmeat products within the eu. does the commission intend to introduce rules on the labelling of sheepmeat products which will enable the consumer to distinguish between community products and those from third countries?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
almost seven years after the barcelona european council, most member states are far from meeting the targets set. and yet childcare facilities are an essential condition for reconciling work, family and private life for both men and women. it is also a condition for the promotion of equality. i would remind you that family responsibilities are keeping more than six million european women out of the labour market. and yet there are 15 member states with a coverage rate below the european average that is far from the barcelona targets. for example, the czech republic, which currently holds the presidency of the european council, has a rate of less than 10% for coverage for the under-3 age group. it is therefore not surprising that the czech presidency's programme proposes a debate on the revision of the barcelona objectives. and more seriously, the czech presidency, and i quote, 'intends to take action on parental childcare and its relationship with employment policies, stressing the importance of home childcare as a real alternative to a professional career'. end of quote. you read it and you don't believe it. but it is true, the czech presidency wants to send women back home, it wants europe to go back years and years and european women to throw away the result of years of struggle for equality. yes, because the authors of such a proposal do not intend to send men home to take care of the children themselves. women have the same right to professional development as men. i would like to give the example of portugal, which has launched an ambitious programme of building childcare facilities, helping to stimulate the economy and create jobs while meeting the barcelona targets.
madam president, commissioner, i asked to speak in disagreement with my colleague edite estrela and that is what motivated me to speak when she caricatured the intentions of the czech presidency. no one wants to send women home, the problem is that there are women who want or would like to stay at home. there are even organizations that seek to defend them! women who are ignored, despised, discriminated against because they want to devote themselves to the family and we do not listen to them. and this is a question of freedom, it is a question of freedom of choice that the left likes to evoke so much but that, here, it forgets. it is a question of whether or not to respect the freedom of association of couples. it is about being able to provide those who want to do so with a better quality of life, with better parenting and with better parenting. that's what our society needs to do, too. we're not going to go there, we're not going to solve the problems of birth and happiness of people with prejudice. we solve with policies that are adjusted to reality and to the spontaneous wishes of the people. we're not going to get there with an obsession with the state and the market. let's go with a fair look at the family!
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the possible closure of qimonda will put at risk almost 2000 jobs in the north of portugal, which in a few years has gone from being one of the most industrialized regions in europe to one of the poorest in europe. it must be understood that the industrial fabric of northern portugal was based on traditional sectors, where textiles were of great importance, and precisely at the moment when it is in a decisive phase of conversion with restructuring processes that are always costly and painful, this case arises that, if implemented, will have a very strong impact not only on the region but also on the country. i know that qimonda's continued operations depend primarily on market forces and the will of the shareholders. but it will also be easy to recognise that, as qimonda is considered one of the main portuguese exporting companies and as it is also a key player in the conversion of the economic fabric of the region, we cannot accept that market forces alone should decide its future. this is why the portuguese and german authorities have been addressing the issue at the highest level, most recently through the portuguese president and chancellor merkel. and that is also why, commissioner špidla, if the portuguese government has not yet invited you to visit the region which is experiencing a real social emergency, i am inviting you, i want you to be able to see the seriousness of the situation, to support the efforts being made and to mobilise all the instruments at the disposal of the european commission to prevent distrust from spreading further throughout the region.
on behalf of the pse group. other in the current context of global financial and economic crisis, qimonda is a paradigmatic case. it is a company that uses cutting-edge technology, employs highly skilled workers and promotes research. qimonda is in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the portuguese government has done everything possible to find a solution to make this undertaking viable, but the solution depends on the involvement of the german federal government and the state governments of bavaria and saxony. the portuguese government has already proposed to make available eur 100 million for this purpose. as i said, it has done everything it can and will continue to do, as was acknowledged by the workers of the german firm during the recent official visit of the president of the portuguese republic. the european commission and the member states have taken measures, and well, to save many banking institutions and to support certain industries such as the automobile industry. why not support qimonda as well? if we leave qimonda to its fate, the consequences will be very serious, not only will thousands of workers be thrown out of work in germany and portugal, but also an invaluable european intellectual heritage and many community funds that have been applied to qimonda will be lost. keeping qimonda in operation in germany and portugal is of such strategic importance to europe that it well justifies the support of the european union. commissioner, we must be consistent, and if we are, we will do everything to save qimonda. the point is, qimonda is not just any company!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult situation in qimonda has been aggravated by the emergence of the financial and economic crisis. the portuguese government has done everything it considers appropriate and useful to help resolve the situation. we would like the bavarian government to take a very responsible approach in this area. saving the munich facility will have a decisive impact on the units in vila do conde and dresden. the portuguese minister manuel pinho himself stated that he was very interested in making this important undertaking for portugal and europe viable, pointing out that qimonda could be a globally competitive undertaking. mr president, the portuguese government will continue its efforts to find a solution that will guarantee the viability of the company. we hope that the german government at federal and state level will make a real effort to solve this problem. i would like to stress once again the strategic importance of maintaining this type of industry in europe. let no national or state executive make the mistake of allowing this company to close down facilities and liquidate jobs in the territory of the union. we understand the need to help the restructuring of the large groups in the automobile industry, but the union's funds and the european commission's energies cannot be used for this. commissioner, the commission's commitment to supporting qimonda, overcoming possible communication gaps, is our appeal to commissioner vladimír špidla, with whom we have working ties and political solidarity, and to president barroso, who will never forget that he is our compatriot and a significant part of the qimonda workers. before we conclude, we should point out that portuguese president cavaco silva recently said in germany that there was new hope for qimonda and we should also mention the importance, as has already been said by colleagues, of the very economic sector in which qimonda operates. we therefore take into account the fact that the portuguese government is prepared to support qimonda with whatever is necessary in view of the economic size of the country. ladies and gentlemen, let's help save the qimonda, the clock is ticking!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this important debate we are having it is essential to understand that the future of the strategic nanotechnology industry, the research and development of a sector which is fundamental to the future of the information society, is at stake, and that the central nucleus and the research nucleus is the qimonda complex in germany with its semiconductor factory in portugal. the european union cannot continue to allow its industries to be destroyed, particularly in a strategic area, and to become dependent on the united states and asian countries, which support its industries. it is regrettable that commissioner špidla has shown a great lack of sensitivity to the question of qimonda as a producer company. the jobs involved in this process are many: some 2000 in vila do conde, 5000 in germany, more than 5000 worldwide, in addition to the thousands of indirect jobs that would be affected in the supplying companies and in the research and development centres of other qimonda partners. the research is vast and threatened with the risk of closure of qimonda in germany and the corresponding repercussions that such a situation would have in portugal. it is unacceptable that the european commission does not commit itself to this issue, at least in the same terms as it did with the banking sector. it should be borne in mind that vila do conde is in the north of portugal where unemployment has increased the most, either because of the closure of companies in the textile and clothing sector, or because of the relocation of multinationals in the area of footwear and cabling, among others, and is now a zone of serious social risk if measures are not taken to curb the growth of unemployment and to ensure production. it is therefore essential that all necessary efforts be made in all possible ways in the short term, including state aid, community financial support and credit guarantees, to maintain an industry which is strategic for the european union's economy and, in the medium term, to develop this industrial area and create more jobs with rights. it is good that the european commission and the governments of our countries understand this. we will continue this fight.
madam president, commissioner, we have been talking about the lisbon strategy for years and the times we are living in are perhaps not the right times to talk about the lisbon strategy, but we certainly need a strategy. a strategy that responds to the difficulties and challenges of the present crisis. and that is what we expect from the commission. it is essential that the commission does not turn away from this subject and that it is able to coordinate its actions with the portuguese government and the german and german länder governments. it is essential to bear in mind that this is an industry, as has already been said here, which is of interest to europe for its quality and value, for the research it develops, and also for the environmental quality associated with it, and it is essential that the commission does not stand aside. i agree with the invitation by my colleague mr peneda to the commissioner and the commission to come to portugal. it is essential that the commission be aware that at this time europeans are looking to europe and expect answers from the european authorities, they need to feel that the european authorities are close by. the european citizens do not want a europe that washes its hands, but rather a europe that has the courage to get its hands on the ball and to take action to help them overcome their difficulties.
i too join in the tribute to jean monnet, but i asked for the floor to congratulate the president on his statement on the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism. it was on my proposal that we adopted this approach five years ago, and the council confirmed it at its meeting on 25 march, following the tragic attacks in madrid. but my intervention was an appeal. parliament has always been committed to the celebration of this date, but unfortunately this date has not yet been given the prominence it should have in the european institutions and the member states as a whole. i believe that the commemoration of this day is one of the most important instruments we have to honour the victims, as you have done, but also to raise the level of public awareness. i know there's some celebrations in madrid today but not much else. i therefore appeal to the commission, to the czech presidency, and to all member states to celebrate this date in a dignified manner in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the present crisis is the greatest the european union has ever known. she's unfortunately far from her end. bankruptcies are still not contained and unemployment is continuing to rise. never before has the european project been subjected to such a severe test. and our common response will depend not only on the strength of the relaunch, but probably on the very continuity of the european project, at least on the speed of our deepening and enlargement. we did not create the european union to limit ourselves to a single market in times of prosperity, or to return to national selfishness in times of crisis. the european project is a political project, a guarantee of peace, freedom and democracy, but in economic terms it is based on competition as well as solidarity and cohesion. and it really lives on the ability to give quality and opportunities for progress to all citizens, whatever their background. today, in this crisis, citizens are looking to europe for protection and action to help them pass urgently, without serious social disruption, the current critical phase to help them rediscover their future, to relaunch employment and enterprises around new and more sustainable development vectors. the lisbon agenda and the environmental commitments are inspiring designs, but they must be given substance and action as a matter of urgency. in this sense, parliament's voice to the council and the commission is clear, it is strong, it is audible. the convergence we have achieved in the vote in the economic and monetary committee illustrates this common will. and i hope that the vote that will take place here today will continue to prove that. we are working together, the various rapporteurs, the various parties, and i hope that this message will be conveyed and understood by the commission in this way. i would like to welcome the shadow rapporteurs, mr hökmark and mrs in 't veld in particular, and i hope that with the same determination today's vote will lead us to put this message into practice and to take it forward. the lessons to be learned from the causes of this crisis are of paramount importance today. it is indeed a very important guide which we must take up, the larosière report. it is a good basis for work, it recovers much of what we have already proposed here. however, its conclusions must in fact lead to immediate and timely action by the commission. and it is important that the european union should be present at the next g20 meeting on this matter. i think that in this context there are elements which are symbolic and i hope that parliament will vote today unequivocally against offshore and tax havens. it is not enough, however, to correct past mistakes, particularly in the area of financial supervision and regulation. today the damage is done and a relaunch programme that is commensurate with the union's responsibilities is needed. we welcome the commission's rapid initiative, but we are aware, and we must be clear, that the means and instruments of intervention are manifestly insufficient. parliament votes in favour of the commission's efforts to make the instruments available more flexible, more anticipatory and more rapid, but we must not forget that 85% of the resources available today are in the hands of the various countries that make up the european union. the countries of the union have never been so different from one another as they are today. some countries have the power, they have the tools to intervene, others are completely vulnerable and their toolbox is completely empty. there are countries with no room for manoeuvre at national level, there are countries unable to resist the violence of the simultaneous forces of the internal market, the single currency and globalisation, and among these, the new countries that have just joined the european project are among the most penalized. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that at the moment our message from parliament is broken down into a number of very clear, very precise messages, but one common idea, and that common idea is the objective: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the neoliberal lisbon strategy has been one of the european union's essential instruments for promoting financial deregulation, privatising public services, liberalising markets and world trade, deregulating labour relations and undermining workers' rights, as exemplified by the proposals for the directive on working time and flexicurity. it is pointless to continue to insist on its deepening when the economic and social crisis which the implementation of this strategy has helped to create is worsening. what is needed is a break with the policies of neoliberal capitalism, which is responsible for the increase in unemployment, precarious work and poverty and which has widened social, regional and territorial inequalities. what is needed is an integrated european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development that focuses on the protection of productive sectors and public investment, through the effective strengthening of community funds to support countries with weaker economies, that is respectful of nature and creates jobs with rights, that promotes public services, increases purchasing power and makes a fair distribution of income to reduce poverty. the commission and the council are doing exactly the opposite.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is deeper than we expected and unemployment will be higher than we foresaw. there are good reasons to believe that the european stimulus provided is not enough, but it is clear that it is taking too long to reach the citizens. parliament's position is strong and clear, it has been and i hope it will continue to be. our aim is to maintain employment and to create new jobs through cohesion, solidarity, both territorial and social. at this time of crisis, citizens cannot accept a europe that does not give them an answer, a europe that is powerless in the face of the problems they are facing. what will parliament ask the commission to do? the commission is of course asking you, through these reports, to coordinate national interventions, to use all the means at your disposal at the moment to intervene and to give you all the conditions as a budgetary authority to make this happen. he asked the commission to launch a clear european initiative for employment and said it was important to have an agenda with a timetable for implementing the financial market regulation measures and to get credit into the real economy. but what is the council being asked to do? the council is called upon, above all, to rediscover the political will which is at the heart of the construction of the european project. the european union is competition, but it is also cohesion and solidarity. and there can be no single market without that guarantee, solidarity and cohesion. that is why we all delegated to the european level the national autonomy we had before joining this project.
in writing. it will only be possible to understand the serious socioeconomic situation that characterizes the eu countries, including portugal, if we are aware of the objectives of this "integration process" and how its policies are at the heart of the causes of the current capitalist crisis, of which the eu is one of the epicenters. during the last 23 years the eec/eu has promoted the circulation of capital and the financialization of the economy, liberalized and boosted privatization, concentrated and installed overproduction, relocated and destroyed productive capacity, promoted economic dominance of some at the expense of dependence on others, encouraged the exploitation of workers and the increasing transfer of productivity gains from labour to capital, centralized the wealth created, increased social inequalities and regional asymmetries, all under the baton of the great powers and the big financial and economic groups - this is the origin of the incurable capitalist crisis. it is not the 'crisis' but the policies inherent in capitalism that are at the origin of unemployment, precariousness, low wages, the degradation of living conditions, poverty, disease, hunger, the growing difficulties faced by workers and populations. we therefore welcome the big demonstration of the cgtp-in, the great centre of portuguese workers, on 13 march, to change course, for more jobs, wages and rights!
rapporteur. − madam president, it is just to change the wording in paragraph 93 concerning sound state finance to ‘as soon as possible’, instead of ‘when economic conditions allow’, as agreed with the shadow rapporteurs.
in writing. − the first amending budget for 2009 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for romania following the floods that struck that country in july 2008. in view of the direct loss estimated at some eur 471.4 million, only eur 11.8 million is proposed to be mobilised under this fund (and only now!), which once again demonstrates the urgent need for its revision. the aim of this fund is to enable a rapid, effective and flexible response to 'emergency situations' in the various member states, and we therefore support, despite all the shortcomings, its mobilisation in favour of romania. however, the eur 11.8 million will be budgeted at the expense of the reduction in the funds allocated to the european regional development fund - convergence objective. in other words, the 'solidarity' with romania is financed through the funds allocated to the economically less developed countries and regions, including romania itself! this is what we can call solidarity between the 'poor', i.e. between the so-called 'cohesion countries'/convergence regions... we disagree with the use of 'cohesion' funds - especially in a context of deepening socio-economic crisis - when there are other funds, such as those for the militarisation of the eu.
in writing. - the crisis we are experiencing, more than an economic and financial crisis, is above all a crisis of confidence, and its most dramatic sign is the high level of unemployment. but unemployment involves not only loss of income, for it also leads to loss of confidence in oneself and in others. if we are to restore confidence, we must have a very clear medium-term strategy. the role of political leaders is decisive in this respect, because of the signals and messages they convey. prudence, safety, truthfulness, resisting the easy-going propaganda of unattainable goals, and self-praise are some of the good practices that can help restore trust. on the other hand, jobs must be created and, for that, the conditions must be created for investment by companies. we must act quickly, because if nothing is done at this level, the financing difficulties faced by the most deficit countries in the euro zone will lead to deepening recession, to a continuing increase in unemployment, to loss of income for firms and households. i therefore supported the report by mr andersson, who proposed that the employment guidelines be maintained in 2009.
in writing. - it is not understandable or acceptable to extend or postpone the right of all members to address the european parliament in their own language and to have all documents drawn up in the official languages. several years have passed since the accession of some of the countries whose language use is still limited, notably ireland and the czech republic, but the necessary linguists have not been found. the justifications put forward are vague and inconsistent, but the financial priorities have not been formed, which makes us doubt their objectives. we cannot accept that the inalienable right to cultural and linguistic diversity in the eu is called into question, which would also affect portuguese. we cannot accept this discrimination. we have once again shown our uncompromising commitment to safeguarding the cultural identity of each member state and all national languages as working languages, and in this respect we could only vote against this decision. it is, after all, the cultural and linguistic transposition of the eu's budgetary policies, which give priority to investment in armaments rather than to the promotion of culture and the safeguarding of employment.
in writing. − in the european union (eu) we have seen rising levels of poverty, precarious work and inequalities, which may worsen in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, as forecasts point to a downward trend and an increase in the number of unemployed. this has been helped by the policies enshrined in the lisbon strategy and the european employment strategy, which promote financial deregulation, market liberalisation and precarious employment links. so what was needed was a break with these policies. but in the face of worsening social and economic conditions, the eu's response (or lack of response) reflects its class choices, insisting on the continuation of policies that promote the accumulation of colossal profits by the big economic and financial groups, to the detriment of the living conditions of workers and populations. what is needed is a reversal of the current macroeconomic policies and the defence of employment and workers' rights. an alternative policy is needed to ensure a fair distribution of resources, stimulate economic activity, create jobs, strengthen the role of the state in the economy, boost demand, encourage the growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthen investment, taking into account the needs and specificities of each member state.
in writing. - the lisbon strategy was conceived in a context and for an economic context clearly different from the one we are currently in. this does not, however, imply a revision of all the concepts underlying it. the distinction between the exceptional nature of the present circumstances and the policies to be pursued to promote european development and competitiveness in the long term must be made. but it is important not to take away from this distinction the idea that the crisis situation requires measures contrary to good policies. on the contrary, i did. the response to the present situation, even if it requires exceptional measures, must be guided by the ideas of good policies, of the option of investing in innovation and in europe's competitiveness, otherwise they will not help to respond to the crisis and prepare the member states of the european union for the next phase of the world economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the fight against climate change. the european union must maintain its leadership position in international climate policy and make every effort to reach an agreement in copenhagen that will reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere and limit the global temperature increase to less than 2oc above pre-industrial levels. in the context of the current financial and economic crisis, reaching a new agreement to combat climate change in copenhagen is crucial. the economic crisis and the climate crisis can be combined with important economic opportunities to develop new technologies and create jobs.
in writing. - there are positive aspects to this resolution which we value. we stress the points where the european union is urged to actively seek an agreement in copenhagen that takes account of the latest scientific reports on climate change, to work towards stabilising target levels and temperatures that offer a strong chance of avoiding dangerous climate change, and to provide for regular reviews to ensure that targets are in line with the latest science. the call for a significant increase in financial resources to enable the necessary mitigation initiatives in developing countries is also welcome. but we disagree that, even if only in recitals, it insists on the eu's emissions trading scheme, even admitting that it can serve as a model for the development of emissions trading in other developed countries and regions. we also disagree with the economic view which clearly influences several points in the resolution.
in writing. - although some specific positive proposals were adopted, which we voted in favour of, particularly on tax havens, unfortunately most of our group's proposals were rejected and the main line of the report is the continuation of neoliberal policies with one or another pink brush for the voter to see on the eve of an election campaign. among our rejected proposals, i would highlight those calling for a significant increase in financial resources and a more rapid application of the means to support employment, a reorientation of programmes to support the most vulnerable groups, including programmes to guarantee decent living conditions and access to high quality public services for all. i also regret that they rejected proposals such as those which considered the amount of the recovery plan (1.5% of eu gdp) to be insufficient to successfully deal with the current crisis, noting that the eu will fall far behind countries such as the us and china. i also regret that the criticism of the commission for linking the relaunch plan to the deepening of neo-liberal 'structural reforms' and strict observance of the stability and growth pact has been rejected, when what was needed was to eliminate them and change policies.
in writing. - the elisa ferreira report on the european economic recovery plan, although it contains positive elements, suffers from the same problem as the plan itself: a picture of the situation without a full understanding of the causes of the current crisis being definitively established, a sum of initiatives that it is hoped will restore the confidence of economic agents without, however, so far identifying signs of this effect and a weak capacity for european mobilisation. it is also true that the report does not provide much in the way of practical solutions, because the european parliament has little capacity to do so. the same applies to the european commission. only 15% of the plan's budget will be managed at community level. the answer will therefore have to be found at european level, yes, but first and foremost through the political will of the member states to coordinate their responses with the current economic situation. the impetus must come from the member states. if he comes. because there are worrying signs of a lack of political will in europe at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the major issue that this crisis brings is the rise in unemployment, a situation which can only be reversed by increasing investment. in order to get more investment, credit must be accessible and cheap, but all indications are that it will be scarce in the near future and much more expensive for more vulnerable countries, such as portugal. these countries face increased financing difficulties, and i therefore strongly support the possibility of a single central issuer of european public debt at the euro area level, which is the scenario most compatible with the long-term sustainability of the euro. in the present circumstances, it is imperative to reactivate the european credit market by providing responsible lending to viable businesses and households. financial aid to banks and businesses must also be well targeted, temporary, transparent, cost-effective and strictly controlled. the solidity and solidarity of the european project may be at stake, and it is therefore essential to act in a coordinated manner and to respect the rules of the internal market without resorting to protectionism. i support the report on the european economic recovery plan by my colleague elisa ferreira because it is in line with these broad guidelines.
in writing. - do not count on us to highlight the hollow 'european economic recovery plan' which will be largely self-financed by each member state (the 'european solidarity' at its best...), and which does not call into question the neoliberal policies which are at the root of the worsening of working and living conditions for the overwhelming majority of the population. it is therefore not surprising that the majority of the ep rejected our proposals which: - denounced that, at a time when the eu's socioeconomic crisis is worsening, the eu budget for 2009 is 'the lowest ever'; (i) insisted on strengthening the structural funds and the cohesion fund; - stressed that the additional 'advances' of these funds would mean a reduction in community funding for the coming years; - criticised the under-implementation of these funds, particularly in the context of worsening socioeconomic conditions in the eu; - demanded that these funds be considered as an expenditure objective and proposed an increase in the rate of community co-financing and the abolition of the n+2 and n+3 rule in respect of these funds; - insisted that these funds should be effectively used to promote real convergence, thus abandoning their continued subordination to the neoliberal objectives of the 'lisbon strategy'; - they insisted on fighting the relocation of companies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sis ii system is fully operational. the second generation of sis represents a community approach to the need to strengthen security at the external borders and involves important innovations such as biometric data and the interconnection of alerts. we agreed that this entry into operation could only happen when we have a robust system that is fully operational 24 hours a day. i believe that the time has come to take responsibility, to make a thorough assessment of the situation and to find solutions which will make this project technically viable and restore its already fragile credibility. we know that several tests were carried out last year, the final result of which was negative, namely the 'operational system test'. the council and the commission decided to set a deadline of four months in an attempt to resolve the existing problems, although without much success, as can be seen from the results obtained in december 2008 with the repeat of the tests. although some improvements have been made, there are still, as far as we know, major problems with the performance and robustness of the system, the loss of messages, the quality of the data and the process of synchronisation between the national copies and the central system. the sis ii will never be able to start operations until these problems are solved. i express my doubts about the ability of the contractor to solve all these problems in such a short time that it was not able to solve them earlier with more time. i expect an independent audit of the project to be launched to ascertain responsibility. i have no objection to the alternative technical scenario of the evolution of 'sis i for all' to sis ii, provided that the legal framework approved for sis ii is fully respected. an evaluation and comparison report on the two scenarios is due to be submitted by the end of march. parliament wants access to this study and to be informed of the new direction to be taken by the project and the level of confidence at the technical level, as well as the legal implications, the new timetable and the budgetary impact. i would remind the council and the commission, especially at this stage, that greater transparency in this whole process is highly recommended.
the process leading to turkey's accession to the european union is progressing at a slow pace. at the moment it is not the moderate pace of reforms in turkey that is holding up the process, but the slowness of the council and the european commission. the economic, social and political impact of this future accession was discussed in depth last december in the polish town of sopot at a conference at which i had the pleasure and honour of speaking. as regards the priorities of the turkish government, it is good to recall the breakfast we had with prime minister erdogan in brussels last january, which brought timely clarification, complemented by the contacts that have been developed by some of us with the republican position and by a varied set of personalities and organisations in the turkish republic, in addition to the persistent work we have done in the joint parliamentary committee turkey-european union. in conclusion, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that this is a decisive process for a europe that is wide, strong, open to the world, secular and democratic, in which the democratically unified republic of cyprus has its rightful place.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to take up the words already spoken here years ago by my colleague eija-riitta korhola on 13 march 2006. she described the situation regarding access to clean water to us as follows: the numbers are alarming, 3,900 children die every day from lack of clean water, a fifth of the world's population, that's about 1.1 billion people who lack clean water. more than 40% of the world's population has no access to running water and sanitation. three years have passed since these findings and what is happening? what is happening is that the global picture remains worryingly the same, and that cannot but worry us. we are facing a serious sanitation crisis today that calls on all of us. i would remind you that this problem affects the poorest and most underdeveloped regions of the world, particularly sub-saharan africa. this remains the area most affected by poor water quality, particularly in rural areas and in the slums surrounding large cities. but the problem is vast. i have here with me a unicef brochure dating back to 2001, but essentially their verification remains and is impressive. what does it tell us? it tells us that this billion is spread out a little bit around the world. these 1 billion people without clean water: 4% in the middle east and north africa, 4% in central and eastern europe, 19% in south asia, 25% in sub-saharan africa, 42% in east africa and the pacific. and if you look at the indicators within each of these spaces, it's the east and pacific and sub-saharan africa regions that give us the most alarming numbers, with 24 percent and 43 percent of their populations, respectively, still lacking access to safe drinking water in 2000, at the beginning of the decade. it is worth noting the health complications, some of them fatal, that arise from these deficiencies, and how they affect the development and progress of populations deprived of the quality and abundance of this essential good, as well as the border tensions that access to water causes and how these risk to worsen if nothing is done to prevent them. the european union, as a global actor, cannot, as a major contributor to the global effort to tackle this problem, refrain from taking part in the main debates on this subject. i welcome the relations which the commissioner has established with us here. i therefore also welcome the holding and european participation in this fifth world water forum. this will be another opportunity for all the main actors to discuss the issue objectively and prepare a clear approach to this problem. i can only support this effort, which is also shared by the whole development committee, to promote subsidiarity and, since there are many responsibilities here at local level, i can only sympathize with the other concerns of our committee. water, ladies and gentlemen, is a commodity essential to life, to the life of each of us, to the life of humanity.
madam president, commissioner, anyone who visits sub-saharan africa easily recognizes, in most countries, the enormous weakness of their health systems and the extremely negative impact that this weakness has on the lives and health of the populations that these services are supposed to serve. the indicators constantly published at international level continue to confirm this. and to that extent, it is absolutely disturbing that simple, practical gestures, even if not very elaborate, not even particularly costly, could be enough to save many lives. european financial support can be crucial in this respect and we must always bear in mind that cooperation in the field of health is truly strategic and directly crosses not only one of the millennium goals but many of the millennium goals. the court of auditors found that, i quote, 'community funding for the health sector has not increased since 2000 in proportion to its total development aid, despite the commitments made by the commission in relation to the millennium development goals and the health crisis in sub-saharan africa'. end of quote. and it recognised, and i quote again, 'the commission has contributed significantly through its funding to the creation of the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, but has not paid the same attention to strengthening health systems which was supposed to be one of its priorities'. end of quote. according to the court, this was because, i quote again, 'the commission did not have sufficient experience in health matters to ensure that the funding of the aid it granted to this sector was used in the best possible way'. end of quote. this is therefore a strong challenge that the court of auditors is making directly to the european commission, and i am following it. for our part, i would like to reiterate the same challenge, which is now based on the objectivity of this data and this assessment. health care is already part of it, but it must be increasingly part of our development aid priorities and deserves increased funding. optimising the way aid is delivered, bearing in mind the apparently antagonistic needs for coordination in its management and proximity to the beneficiary populations, is a service that can save many lives. the european commission must respond positively to this challenge and i urge it to do so. mr bowis has just made a very moving speech to us here and has been able to put faces, human faces, in the dry cold of these figures from the court of auditors. the challenge for us, commissioner, is that our cooperation should be able to put a look of joy and hope on those very faces. and for that, commissioner, it is essential that the figures in the area of health in our cooperation should be different.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2009.
the following is the oral question to the commission on the implementation of the single euro payments area (sepa) by pervenche berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0018/2009).
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2009.
the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs on the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in sri lanka (b6-0140/2009) will continue.
ladies and gentlemen, i have strictly followed the rules of procedure. as i could give the floor to five speakers and only three actually intervened, i decided to give the floor to mr evans.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 march 2009.
i would like to ask the bureau if we are going to discuss a proposal for a recommendation from the european parliament to the council since the council representative is not present. is there any news on whether it's going to come up during the debate or not?
the changes in latin america should encourage the european union to develop new cooperative relations with its countries, paying greater attention to social and cultural aspects, and supporting development in a framework of mutual respect for the diversity of levels of development and political choices of its peoples. unfortunately, these are minor aspects in the proposals that the european union is putting forward. in general, its main interest is economic, aimed at securing the business of the largest european economic and financial groups, a situation to which social organizations, particularly in brazil, have warned as we have seen in the last visit to brazil of the parliamentary delegation for mercosur. at a time when, for example, in mexico, the majority of the population is suffering the consequences of a severe economic recession and the overwhelming majority of the mexican banking sector is controlled by foreigners, mainly european banks, it is regrettable that the european union continues to use its agreement with mexico more as a gateway to the united states than to support local development and is contributing to the destruction of its small and mediumsized enterprises, its productive fabric, particularly its industrial fabric, because of its insistence on free trade, the liberalization of strategic sectors and the commodification of essential goods such as water. a fundamental change is therefore needed in the european union's policies on partnership agreements, in order to give priority to cooperation and economic and social development, contributing to the creation of jobs with rights, social progress, the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples, the protection of their forests and biodiversity, with recognition of the sovereign right of latin american countries to quality public services, control over strategic sectors of their economy and respect for the decisions of the institutions chosen by their peoples.
mr president, as the czech presidency is not in the house, i shall speak in english because i believe the message will get through quicker. i draw your attention to paragraph 1(l) of the proposal for a recommendation on the partnership with brazil and also to the communication from the commission of september 2008 on multilingualism. the fact is that to establish and to develop a strategic partnership with brazil we speak in portuguese. when we go to the usa or australia, we speak english; when we go to mexico or colombia, we speak spanish; when we go to brazil or angola, we speak portuguese; when we go to senegal or côte d’ivoire, we speak in french. this is key to communication; this is key to doing business. this draws attention to what i called a few years ago the ‘european world’ languages: linguas europeias globais in portuguese. i mean that some european languages have the ability to establish a very intimate and close connection with various parts of the world, and these are: english, spanish, portuguese, french and, to a lesser extent and on different grounds, german and italian. the commission fully understood this and put it in the communication, but, unfortunately, there were misunderstandings in the council – mainly on the part of the germans, i believe – and the council passed a much weaker line in this matter. i have to clarify that this does not affect, by any means, the equal value of official languages in the union. this has to do with the internal vision of multilingualism, and we all agree that every citizen has the right to speak, to read and to be answered in his own language. however, this adds another dimension in the broad field of the external value of multilingualism. to have those european world languages in today’s globalised world, in today’s globalised economy, in this global village, which is cultural, economic, social and political, is a most valuable asset for the entire eu, which we must take full account of and full benefit from. that is why i ask that these languages be properly introduced and managed inside the youth external services and also taught in our schools, as a common asset, as second, third or fourth languages, because these languages, as our relations with brazil clearly show, increase our eu capacity to relate closely worldwide: to mingle more, to really share, to be part of the same club. this is my appeal to the council and i greet and thank the rapporteur for her support.
in writing. - although the present situation shows that the neoliberal lisbon strategy is one of the instruments responsible for the worsening economic and social situation in the european union, the report insists on its implementation, which we disagree with. however, there are positive aspects in the report, aspects which we support, particularly in relation to the defence of the needs of researchers, their rights in terms of working conditions and social security, family reunification, the rights of women researchers and access for young people, the call for increased financial resources for research and for the involvement of a greater number of researchers. but it is not clear how the proposed european research strategy will guarantee equal rights for all member states and general access for researchers, especially young researchers, to the european research partnership, especially from countries like portugal, which is not at the centre of policy decisions in a european union that increasingly operates around a directory of the great powers. that is why we abstained on the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the problem of the degradation of agricultural land in southern europe, because i consider it necessary to include in the cap guidelines instruments aimed at combating the effects of climate change and protecting soils. the importance of establishing a european drought observatory and of strengthening the eu's coordinated fire response capacity should be underlined.
in writing. - the attitude of the ppe in rejecting several of the proposals in this report and in having its alternative proposal, which we rejected, approved is regrettable. the fact is that, despite a number of shortcomings, we agree with many of the points made in the report that has been presented, namely that agriculture is the best way to prevent soil degradation and that a well-founded strategy is needed to help maintain this activity. we also consider the role of the agricultural population in combating desertification and the crucial role of the producer in maintaining the vegetation cover of the regions affected by persistent droughts to be important. we also agree with the statement that intensive farming, promoted to a large extent by agro-industry, is a negative contributor to soil erosion, rendering it unproductive. we believe, however, that more should have been done to hold eu agricultural policies and governments such as those that have governed portugal accountable, because they have been the ones that have encouraged the over-exploitation of land and water and environmental degradation. we still believe that these problems can be overcome by a break with these agricultural policies. we are in favour of linking agricultural aid to production, to enable the growth of agri-food production in countries like portugal and, in general, the modernisation of their primary sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2008 progress report on turkey. given the slowdown in turkey's reform process, it is necessary for the turkish government to show political will to continue the reform process it committed to in 2005, towards a more democratic and pluralistic society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on water resources in the context of the world water forum, as i believe that there is an urgent need to define global policies on water management and water resources, which will enable the millennium development goals (mdgs) to be met, namely to halve the number of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015. despite the global financial crisis, it is considered necessary for member states to strengthen support to the least developed countries through official development assistance and cooperation on adaptation to and mitigation of the effects of climate change.
in writing. - the water sector is also caught up in the privatisation and liberalisation campaign of the majority in the european parliament. it is true that it is stated, albeit in the conditional, that 'water is a common good of mankind and should constitute a fundamental and universal right' and that 'water should be considered a public good and be subject to public control'. but what follows is serious and unacceptable. to consider that, although water may be under public control, if it can be granted, "in whole or in part", to the private sector, its management is to keep the part of investment in infrastructure for collection and supply in the public domain, giving the private sector the profitable part, the collection from consumers. these experiments have already been carried out in several countries, particularly in latin america, where prices have risen exponentially and quality has deteriorated. we also cannot accept that agriculture should be held responsible by putting agribusiness and small farmers on an equal footing and attacking the latter with high water prices. when the capitalist crisis is accentuated, water seems to be a desirable asset to enable the profits that capital so needs. we still believe that water should be maintained exclusively as a public good, both in its abstraction and its supply.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this report. brazil was the last of the brics to enter a summit with the eu, which took place in july 2007 during the portuguese eu presidency. it was also a natural reflection of the relations that portugal has always maintained with brazil. as i said here in september 2007, this is a country whose 200 million inhabitants speak one of the most widely spoken european languages in the world, portuguese, and whose historical, civilizational and cultural traditions are closely related to those of europe. the various political pacts that have marked history down to our day bear witness to this. these relations will cement other bridges with latin america. given its recognised potential and brazil's current economic and political performance at regional and global level, this strategic partnership should not be seen as a future impediment to other partnerships with mercosur. it should be hailed as an example where the eu has achieved the necessary consensus on common commercial and political interests. it should be noted that both sides consider multilateral action to be necessary, based on the united nations system and within the framework of the wto. finally, i must say that i am somewhat curious about the future scope of the cooperation protocols for education and culture.
madam president, i would ask the honourable members to excuse me for taking a few minutes. i would like to speak about china. there was a motion for a resolution today on china, on the case of mr gao zhisheng, a well-known lawyer, who was arrested. there's a fear he'll be tortured; his family has just been accepted into the united states and there are fears for his life. but unfortunately, because only three subjects can be discussed, the proposal concerning mr gao zhisheng could not be accepted. we had intended to put it to the march ii part-session. we were told that there would be no emergency in march ii because, as a rule, when there are two plenary sessions in the same month, there are no emergencies in the second. i doubt that interpretation. this interpretation relates to the double sessions in september and, before that, in october, during which the budget was discussed. the fact that there are two sessions in march is due to the elections; this is a very special case. this means that human rights issues could not be dealt with until the end of april, which is too late. i therefore ask the presidency, firstly, to look into this matter and, secondly, to express to the chinese embassy our great concern about him. to this end, i can send you the case of mr gao zhisheng, because no one really knows where he is and there are fears that he is being tortured and that his life is in danger.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a country that has been experiencing chronic instability for many years, that has been trying a path to democracy in the early 1990s. nothing has gone well, there has been a coup d'état, a small internal war and it is living in great political and military instability, tensions, deep rivalries and, recently, also the very worrying presence, increasingly evident to all observers, of drug trafficking interests. we condemn in the strongest terms these attacks, the bombing of the chief of staff, tagme na waié, and the particularly barbaric, if not savage, assassination of president nino vieira. regardless of their background, we express our solidarity with their families and with the people of guinea-bissau and we deplore and condemn these attacks in the strongest terms. we want to return to normalcy, and the lesson i draw from this and which i would like to stress in the resolution is that impunity is no cure. in the past, with regard to the murder of assumane mané and general veríssimo seabra, how was it possible to turn a blind eye to the fact that the culprits were not found and brought to justice? clearly, this is not the answer. and so we have to make it clear to the state of guinea-bissau that those responsible have to be found, the guilty have to be brought to justice and we have to provide all the help that is needed. i would also like to draw attention, finally, to the concern we have seen about the presence of drug trafficking throughout the region, the risk it poses, also for the european union, and the shocking presence of it in guinea-bissau. i would also like to call for closer relations with cape verde in this context. we have a special partnership with cape verde, which has very close relations with guinea, a great deal of knowledge, but is also very vulnerable and this is also essential for our own european security. the intensification of the special partnership with cape verde is therefore also very important in this context.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the acp countries. what is happening there, and which we deplore, namely the assassinations of the president and the chief of staff, we cannot forget that it is still the result of all the difficulties and all the divisions that persist there and that, too, are still continuing and that result from that colonial past. it is also necessary to take account of the fact that guinea-bissau remains one of the poorest countries in africa, and this means that the european union should pay greater attention to cooperation in the areas of public health and education, with a view to improving the living conditions of its population and overcoming the difficulties that a large part of the people of guinea-bissau still face, particularly women, mothers and children. it is essential that the european union's solidarity support for these populations be strengthened. support is also needed for education, drinking water and, in some cases, even agricultural production to ensure food for the entire population. but this support must be provided without outside interference and with respect for the sovereignty and choices of its people.
madam president, the truth is that we knew the order to expel the ngos was coming, and that is why i reaffirm that my preference is for a firm and clear line that is also pragmatic. it is very easy to play the hero in the coffee shop, miles and miles away. those of us who visited darfur in july 2007 and went to al-geneina and al-fashir, to nyala and kapkabia and to many idp camps around those cities, are fully aware of the suffering of the people of darfur and the tremendous job that ngos do there. it is therefore essential to protect the remaining ngos and to work by all means for them to stay, and also to fully support those that will continue, including religious charities. i also support the exerting of more pressure on china, which, on the one hand, does not apply the needed pressure on the khartoum authorities and, on the other hand, delays or blocks more effective measures at un level. i also support mr tannock’s idea that ‘any way out is a good way out’. if president al-bashir goes away and his regime is put out of the way, that would be a tremendous relief and help for the people of darfur and sudan. that is not impunity – impunity is to continue as you are for many years.
it is a scandal that the only tyre factory with all-portuguese capital has been paralysed for several months, putting at risk some 300 direct jobs in a socially depressed area of vale do ave, with one of the highest unemployment rates in the european union after the closure of a series of companies and the reduction of employment in the textile sector. the workers of camac in santo tirso and the union representing them have publicly denounced this serious situation, stating that the company does not owe any debt to the bank and the state, but is even a creditor in tens of thousands of euros resulting from the vat withholding. the big creditors are the workers themselves, whose wages have been withheld because the company has not been able to bear the consequences of the devaluation of the british pound, to which it exports almost all of its production, or the skyrocketing cost of raw materials used in the manufacturing process. after the company filed for bankruptcy, they're waiting until march 30th for a solution. it is urgent that the portuguese government and the european commission respond to the alarm and cry of revolt that the workers have raised in order to avoid further unemployment and misery in an area where there are no employment alternatives.
i would like to congratulate mrs maria martens on the importance of her report and stress the fundamental role of this parliament in monitoring the implementation of the joint africa-eu strategy and its action plan. some important steps have been taken in relation to several of the eight partnerships envisaged in the strategy, notably the establishment of expert and implementation groups and the start of dialogue in the context of the partnerships. i regret, however, that after one year some of the partnerships are still in the process of defining working methods, without having concrete targets, timetables to be met or budget plans. i hope that the next joint annual progress report will be much more specific than the first in presenting results and indicating financial envelopes. vigilance in this area is particularly important if we are to honour the commitments made by the european union and its member states in the election of the millennium development goals and also to ensure that the global recession, which affects us all, does not disproportionately penalise the already most vulnerable countries and peoples of africa. development and democratic governance in africa must be part of the solution to the crisis for all of us. in this respect, we also need more significant progress in all partnerships, including those that are more politically sensitive, such as governance and human rights. it is crucial to strengthen the role of the european parliament in this process by officially assigning it monitoring functions and involving it in the work of the strategy implementation groups, as well as ensuring the involvement of actors representing civil society, both european and african, in this process, in particular national parliaments, ngos and the media.
the rapporteur. - the commission's communication entitled 'multilingualism, an asset for europe and a shared commitment' is part of a long series of documents produced by the european parliament, the commission, the council, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, in which the issue of multilingualism is addressed from various angles. in my report i reiterate the positions previously taken by the european parliament and i generally agree with the commission's position on the enormous competitive advantage represented by the cultural and linguistic diversity of the european union and also on the need to support language teaching and cultural and educational exchange programmes within and outside the union. i also support the importance of language as a factor of social inclusion. i would like to stress the importance of dialogue with other regions of the world, taking account of the linguistic, historical and cultural links between the countries of the union and third countries. i am referring to the need for policies to support translation, both literary and technical. i am addressing the issue of multilingualism in the audiovisual sector, the need to support language teachers, the extension of the development of language proficiency indicators to all the official languages of the european union, without prejudice to other languages spoken and studied in europe, including classical greek and latin. as regards language teaching, both in school and in adult life, among many other aspects, i maintain that learning the mother tongue is basic to any and all learning. that parents and educators should be able to choose the official language in which children are to be educated in countries where there is more than one official language or where official language and regional languages coexist. i further submit that no child should be deprived of education in the official language of the state. i would point out that nowhere in my report is the importance of regional or minority languages disputed, which i of course recognize and respect, and nowhere is it intended to undermine them. there is not a single aspect of my report that is incompatible with them. but in the meantime an alternative proposal has emerged, endorsed by my socialist, liberal and green colleagues, which simply abolishes the three points i have just mentioned. the principles of fundamental rights and individual freedom, long established, accepted and practised in the european union, are thus being eliminated under pressure from galician, catalan and basque nationalists, to whom the european parliament would have given in if it voted in this way. these intentions are perfectly visible. in today's spanish newspaper el país, on page 37, it is stated that only three months ago the supreme court ruled that a house should be put on the pre-enrolment list, asking parents in which language they want their children to have their first education, which the catalan generalitat did not do. i don't think the alternative should have been accepted. in the light of the subjects covered in my report, it amounts to an unacceptable protectionism of exacerbated nationalisms and it also clashes in an unacceptable way with fundamental rights and freedoms and even with the principle of subsidiarity, not to mention that this alternative is also contrary to principles already enshrined in previous texts of the european parliament and the council and never put into question. i therefore call the full attention of this house. the alternative presented must be rejected and my report, which was already adopted in the committee on culture and education on 17 february, with 20 votes in favour, 3 against and 8 abstentions, must be adopted. mr president, the european union must be a place of respect for democracy and pluralism, not a place of exclusion or the arbitrary curtailment of fundamental rights and freedoms.
the community is developing and pursuing its action to strengthen its economic and social cohesion by reducing the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the most disadvantaged regions and islands, including rural areas. in the light of the current debate on the future of cohesion policy, which is intended to include the so-called territorial cohesion dimension, the following essential principles should be emphasised: first, structural policy should have as its first and foremost objective the promotion of real convergence, acting as a redistributive instrument, in the face of the costs, inequalities and asymmetries fostered by the internal market, economic and monetary union and the liberalisation of international trade, for the economically less developed countries and regions in the european union. secondly, so-called competitiveness cannot be a substitute for convergence in member states and regions which are lagging behind in their socioeconomic development, and cohesion policy and the financial means associated with it should not be subordinated to the competition and liberalisation advocated by the lisbon strategy. thirdly, so-called territorial cohesion should contribute to economic and social cohesion, i.e. it should have as its central objective the reduction of disparities between the levels of economic development of the various regions and the backwardness of the most disadvantaged regions. fourthly, new objectives and priorities must be matched by new community financial resources, i.e. the financing of so-called territorial cohesion must not be carried out to the detriment of the convergence objective. fifthly, the current community financial resources for cohesion policy are insufficient to meet the needs of real convergence, regional disparities, high levels of unemployment, income inequalities and poverty in the european union. sixthly, the strengthening of the community budget for the promotion of economic and social cohesion is a requirement. seventhly, the management and planning of the territory is a matter for each member state. finally, and in addition to other important aspects not highlighted here, we reiterate that it is unacceptable for regions to be financially harmed by the so-called statistical effect, and that measures should be taken to counteract this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking everyone for their work. the three lines defined in the green paper concentration, interconnection and cooperation can provide solutions to some of the obstacles to the union's harmonious development, namely the negative effects associated with the concentration of economic activity, inequalities in access to markets and services resulting from distance and the divisions imposed not only by borders between member states (especially the most disadvantaged ones) but also between regions. we must therefore promote the improvement of synergies between these policies with methods of effective assessment of their territorial impact. that is why i have always advocated the definition of additional qualitative indicators with the aim of improving the design and implementation of the corresponding policies on the ground, taking into account the different territorial specificities. for the time being, gdp remains the only eligibility criterion for structural fund support. however, this definition of additional indicators and the carrying out of territorial assessments should not lead to more bureaucracy or delays, but rather to simplification in the implementation of new policies and actions to support territorial cohesion. the fifth and final interim report, madam president, makes specific reference to the transition regions between the convergence regions and the regions of competitiveness and employment. it must be borne in mind that these regions need a clearer status, with more security and stability for their development.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs krehl and mr nistelrooij on their reports and on the openness they have shown to the contributions of their colleagues. its reports recognise the importance of best practice as a factor for generating synergies, particularly in the fields of the environment and energy and employment, and link the debate on territorial cohesion to the debate on the future of cohesion in the european union. i agree with the green paper's assessment, share the analysis of the concept of territorial cohesion and subscribe to the recommendations for the future of territorial cohesion contained in these reports, in particular the definition of territorial cooperation, the publication of a white paper on territorial cohesion, the reinforcement of the objective of european territorial cohesion, the integration of territorial cohesion in the future definition of all community policies, the definition of additional qualitative indicators, the evaluation of the territorial impact of community policies and the proposal of means of creating synergies between territorial and sectoral policies, the design of a global strategy for regions with specific geographical characteristics, in particular outermost regions, the creation of a more comprehensive system of transitional and gradual support for the so-called regions and the creation of a transition to articulated territorial governance at european, regional, national and local levels. i therefore ask my colleagues to support these reports and to ask the member states and the commission to follow up on them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this great debate on territorial cohesion and the future of economic and social cohesion policy, i cannot fail to mention the very specific problems of the outermost regions, regions which, because of the combination and permanence of a number of geographical factors, reveal a great economic and social vulnerability, particularly felt in the context of a serious international crisis such as the one we are currently experiencing. i would therefore like to call on the european commission, and in particular on commissioner hübner, to pay particular attention to the effects of the current crisis in the outermost regions. an assessment of these effects in each of the outermost regions, in particular in tourism, construction and the increase in unemployment, would be important to allow a specific european response for these regions. i therefore challenge the european commission to prepare a european response to the crisis for the outermost regions that goes beyond the measures already announced under the economic and social cohesion policy for all european regions. a specific european response to the crisis for the outermost regions... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, my report is in line with all the documents on multilingualism that precede it, whether they are from this house, the council or the commission. the alternative presented is an attempt to bring to the european parliament some nationalist quarrels which take place in spain. the spanish newspaper el país reported yesterday that the spanish supreme court ruled three months ago that there should be a space on pre-enrolment forms for parents to indicate in which language they would like their children to be educated, and that the catalan authorities are not complying with the ruling. the supporters of the alternative do not want this right to be recognised for parents in countries with more than one official or regional language. they do not want to recognise the vital importance of learning in the mother tongue for the success of education in general and of learning other languages in particular. they do not want full intelligibility between the languages spoken in a country that is in this situation, especially with regard to the elderly and the legal system of health, administration and employment. they do not accept that in these countries one language should not be promoted at the expense of the rights of speakers of another. this contradicts everything that this parliament and the other european bodies have been saying. so i am deleting points 11, 12, 14 and 17 in the alternative. in the face of these points, such negative positions conflict with fundamental rights and freedoms and are in clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity. the report does not attack or undermine the so-called minority languages. it respects them and recognizes their value, but it does not for that reason fail to formulate general and basic principles. this house cannot be an instrument of exacerbated nationalism or regional or local hatred and aversion. our own responsibility as members of the european parliament is at stake. i therefore ask you to vote against the alternative and in favour of the report which i support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the maria martens report. one year after lisbon: the eu-africa partnership in action, as it reiterates the need to strengthen the links between the european union and africa, especially in the current context of global economic instability. i would like to stress that the eu-africa summit in lisbon in 2007 was mainly due to the work of the portuguese presidency of the council of the european union. however, there is still a long way to go to build on the joint strategy outlined at the time, particularly in the areas of peace, security, governance, human rights, regional integration, health and education. the european union needs to create a specific financial instrument for the implementation of the strategy, as well as a significant involvement of civil society.
in writing. - we voted against this report because we consider that the pressure which continues to be exerted to complete the process of ratification of the treaty of lisbon, in disregard of the result of the referendum in ireland, is unacceptable. if they had complied with the rules of the treaty in force and respected the sovereign decisions of the irish people, they should have withdrawn from the draft treaty of lisbon. what we are dealing with here is another anti-democratic position. it is unacceptable that the european parliament should talk about strengthening the eu's transparency and the participation of citizens in decision-making processes when the majority of its members have spoken out against holding referendums in their countries on the draft treaty of lisbon, precisely because they fear the majority opinion of their peoples. it is equally regrettable that they do not understand the opposing views of all those who consider themselves deceived by a capitalist integration which worsens inequalities, increases poverty and unemployment, contrary to what they had promised. even some of the positive points in the report are framed in a context which is more aimed at misleading public opinion and citizens through propaganda campaigns than at actually guaranteeing democratic participation and changing policies to meet the just aspirations of workers and the population.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs constanze khrel because it highlights best practice in a number of areas, including the environment and sustainable energy. this is the case of the socorridos hydroelectric power plant in the autonomous region of madeira, which has been recognised under the regiostars initiative. the report by mrs khrel also acknowledges major difficulties in preparing them, namely: - difficult to understand regulations, - unclear co-financing rules, - few opportunities for the exchange of experience, - few possibilities for interregional cooperation, and insufficient regional structures for such cooperation. the indicators should be strengthened, improved and thus the community's know-how in this field strengthened, particularly as regards:- respect for the principle of equal opportunities, guarantee of the principles of partnership and innovation of action,- rigor in the organization of projects, efficiency in the use of resources and clarity in their duration,- increase in the transferability of knowledge, so that it can also be applied in other regions of the european union. all these aspects are recognised in mrs khrel's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dagmar roth-behrendt report on the cosmetics regulation (recast) because i consider it essential to strengthen the safety of cosmetics in order to ensure the protection of consumers' health by means of minimum requirements which must be met before the product is placed on the market. however, i regret that the obligation to identify the expiry date has not been introduced for all products, including those with a shelf-life of more than 30 months (article 15). it is important to emphasise that while the use of the expired cosmetic product does not cause any problems for the health of the consumer, it is also true that it does not promote the improvements it proposes.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament broadly endorses the position of the european commission, which has decided to recast council directive 76/768/eec of 27 july 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products. the directive, which has been amended 55 times since its adoption in 1976, has become too complex and outdated, and no longer provides the necessary legal certainty in this constantly evolving field. with this recast, the commission intends to address the problem of legal uncertainty and to correct inconsistencies by establishing a series of definitions and implementing measures. in order to avoid divergences in national transposition, the commission has changed the legal form of the act from a directive to a regulation. another objective is to improve the safety of cosmetic products. as the cosmetics directive currently in force does not fully provide for the requirements for safety assessment, the commission sets out in this proposal the minimum requirements in this area. the rapporteur has reinforced the safety aspect in order to ensure the protection and health of consumers. what we think is right.
in writing. - i generally approve of the roth-behrendt report and the compromise reached with the council, but i regret a failure which i believe will be detrimental to consumer protection. the current directive and the proposed regulation stipulate that only cosmetic products with a shelf life of less than 30 months must have an expiry date. often, for economic reasons, this time limit is defined as more than 30 months. in this way, manufacturers ensure the disposal of all their products by not displaying a deadline. although the use of the cosmetic product after the expiry date does not normally cause health problems for the consumer, it does not promote the improvements that the consumer hopes to obtain. unfortunately, the legal services of parliament and the commission have, in my view, wrongly understood that this provision could not be changed in a recasting process.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament agrees, with slight amendments, to the european commission's request to amend directive 98/8/ec on the placing of biocidal products on the market, which it considers to have become necessary after an evaluation of its application revealed that the ten-year period, until 14 may 2010, provided for the evaluation of active substances used in biocidal products with a view to their inclusion in the community positive list would not be sufficient. therefore, the transitional period during which the market for biocidal products will continue to be regulated by national legislation would expire without the establishment of the community positive list. in practice, this would mean that important products, such as disinfectants used in hospitals, would have to be withdrawn from the market as from 15 may 2010. to avoid this undesirable effect, the commission proposes to extend the transitional period by three years, until 14 may 2013. if these three years are still not sufficient, the commission shall introduce the possibility of extending the deadline further by means of a comitology decision. the rapporteur does not want this possibility to serve to postpone the whole process indefinitely, and she proposes limits.
in writing. - i approve the sarbu report and the commission proposal for a technical adaptation of existing legislation. the current directive provides for a transitional period (2000-2010) during which the biocidal products market will continue to be regulated by national legislation. the commission also proposes a 10-year programme for the evaluation of active substances used in biocides with a view to their inclusion in a positive list to be drawn up by the commission. as the current level of progress in the programme for the revision of this directive will not allow its completion by 2010, as was envisaged, it is necessary to make the necessary adjustments so that transitional periods for the most backward dossiers are possible, hence the relevance of this proposal for adaptation.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. female genital mutilation (fgm) not only causes very serious and irreparable damage to the physical and mental health of women, but is also a violation of fundamental human rights. because of the irreparable damage it causes, fgm must be treated by society as a very serious crime and be fought firmly. it is estimated that in europe some 500,000 women have been victims of this crime, and it is essential that the european commission and the member states work together to harmonise existing legislation in order to prevent and eradicate fgm in the european union.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution which is an alternative to the vasco graça moura report. multilingualism, an asset for europe and a common commitment, because it runs counter to some of the principles that have been defended by the european parliament by abolishing the prerogative given to parents to choose the official language in which their children will be educated, in countries or regions with more than one official language or with regional languages. the alternative motion for a resolution, on the other hand, merely refers to the need to give special attention to pupils who cannot be educated in their mother tongue, undermining the basic principle of the importance of mother tongue learning in general education and in the learning of other foreign languages.
in writing. - it is a very positive document overall, and we subscribe to its assumptions and conclusions. the central question is whether it is applicable, since much remains to be done to ensure that, in the light of the present and the political developments in the european union, we can arrive at what is claimed to be necessary in the document. in some of the questions raised, such as the hegemony of some european languages over others, we start from a clearly negative situation. we have to point out in this connection the linguistic and cultural isolation to which certain national policies have led some peoples in the european area, with the consequent discrimination that follows. what is at stake is the cultural heritage of the european peoples themselves and its proper transmission to future generations. we also want to highlight the importance of the role of teachers, translators and interpreters as professionals whose work is essential for the teaching, dissemination and mutual understanding of the languages spoken in the eu. we therefore regret that the alternative proposal was adopted because it impoverishes some of the aspects of the graça moura report, in particular the protection of the mother tongue and the prerogative given to parents to choose the official language in which their children will be educated in countries or regions with more than one official language or with regional languages.
in writing. - the issue of multilingualism is of great importance in the european context. that is why i have taken part in a number of initiatives to promote and ensure its full respect. the europe i believe in is also the europe of linguistic diversity. for these reasons, i refer to the original report by mrs graça moura. however, like the author of the report, i do not accept that a correct idea of respect for linguistic diversity and individual and family freedom can or should be used as a weapon in a discourse of exacerbated nationalism. no, that must not be the nature of the discussion here. the promotion of multilingualism is, and should be, done in the name of respect for the diversity, the linguistic and cultural variety, of europe, in this case. but this is not the place for any other kind of fighting, especially when it involves the rejection of subsidiarity and freedom.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the lambert van nistelrooij report, given the importance of territorial cohesion in ensuring that the european union continues to follow a path of sustainable development and solidarity, increasingly turning its territorial cohesion and diversity into an asset. the green paper represents an important step towards deepening the union's territorial cohesion and shared competences and is also a stimulus to a broad debate on this subject at the level of the european institutions, national and regional authorities, the economic and social partners and the other actors involved in european integration and territorial development. i would like to stress as a positive aspect the value attached to the potential of the european territory and its diversity, as well as the three guidelines for a more balanced and harmonious development in each region: reducing the negative effects of differences in density, linking territories to overcome distances and cooperation to overcome divisions.
in writing. - i congratulated mr van nistelrooij on his report and particularly on his willingness to accept the various amendments to the draft report. this report deserves my full support! the commission therefore linked the debate on territorial cohesion to the debate on the future of eu cohesion policy, considering that the reform of the latter should incorporate the conclusions of the former. i agree with your assessment of the green paper, share your analysis of the concept of territorial cohesion and subscribe to the recommendations for the future of territorial cohesion that it presents, in particular on:- definition of territorial cohesion;- publication of a white paper on territorial cohesion;- strengthening the objective of european territorial cooperation;- integration of territorial cohesion in the future definition of all community policies;- definition of supplementary qualitative indicators;- assessment of the territorial impact of community sectoral policies and proposing means of creating synergies between territorial and sectoral policies;- design of a comprehensive european strategy for regions with specific geographical characteristics;- creation of a comprehensive system of gradual transitional support for transition regions;- and- creation of multi-level territorial governance. that is why i voted in favour!
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but has not yet adopted the commission's proposal. these proposals emphasised: structural policy should have as its first and foremost objective the promotion of real convergence, acting as a redistributive instrument for the less developed countries and regions in the european union; territorial cohesion will not be subordinated to the objective of reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions; the new priorities will have to be matched by new community financial resources, especially as the current community financial resources are insufficient to meet the needs of real convergence; the need to strengthen the community budget in order to promote economic and social cohesion at european union level; the management and planning of the territory are the responsibility of each member state; measures should be taken to cancel out the so-called statistical effect; or that competitiveness should not be a substitute for convergence in member states and regions lagging behind in their socioeconomic development and that cohesion policy and the financial means associated with it should not be subordinated to the competition and liberalisation advocated by the lisbon strategy. one possible answer is that, at the very least, the proclaimed cohesion policy is indeed at risk...
in writing. - the debate on territorial cohesion is much more than a debate on the budget or on community policies; it is a debate on the guiding principles of one of the founding and fundamental lines of the idea of europe as we conceive it. the revision and the search for more appropriate solutions for cohesion policy in an enlarged europe of 27 member states, which is now going through an economic crisis, deserve our agreement and our applause. but this does not imply that we agree with or applaud the whole contents of the green paper. the three central guidelines of this review are correct, in the light of the criteria we have set out: reducing the negative effects of differences in population density, linking territories to overcome distances, cooperating to overcome divisions. but this cannot, by the very nature of the matter at hand, imply that the intensity of structural aid depends on the number of inhabitants concerned. on the contrary, i did. the idea of territorial cohesion itself must be based on the idea of making a space from which people are fleeing attractive and viable. that is one of our objectives and it must be clearly pursued. the idea of cohesion is basically an idea of solidarity to which we are all bound and from which we all ultimately benefit.
in writing. − this report is of crucial importance in the context of the eu's work on cohesion policy and cooperation and development policy. this line was also largely supported by the european parliament in its written declaration p6_ta(2008) 0199 adopted on 8/5/2008 of which i had the honour of being one of the first signatories. i therefore vote in favour of this report, because all kinds of investment and further research in this area are crucial and urgent, especially in the current context of the economic and financial crisis. so concrete and rapid action to make the system more credible and coherent is now what is required of the european commission and the council.
in writing. statements are being made that would have been unimaginable a year ago. but at the same time, the contradictions between those who are most responsible are one after the other, which shows, on the one hand, the attempt to evade responsibility for the serious consequences of neoliberal policies, and, on the other hand, the creation of a kind of dust which makes it difficult to see the paths they are following, which are basically the same, with very slight changes. it's, once again, the beginning of the end. something has to change to keep things the way they are, which visconti so well treated in his leopard. so while the british prime minister, gordon brown, said that the market exists to serve us, adding that we are not here to serve the market, without adding substantive measures that effectively discipline the market, limiting itself to insisting on measures of coordination and regulation of tax havens, the president of the european commission, durão barroso, insisted on the liberalisation of international trade and the insistence of the doha agenda. nothing was said about measures to end privatisations of public services and strategic sectors of the economies. nothing was said to end the liberal lisbon strategy or to defend jobs with rights, putting an end to attempts to change labour legislation for the worse.
i also join my colleagues in congratulating our rapporteur on the excellent work he has done in the committee on budgets and on the way he has fought for the rights and prerogatives of the european parliament. according to the judgment of the court of justice of 6 november 2008, the european parliament has full co-decision powers in this area. moreover, the european investment bank is clearly mandated to support economic and social development in a sustainable way for the integration of developing countries into the world market in the campaign to fight poverty and for these states to respect the rule of law, respect human rights and fundamental rights. we will be here to ensure that the eib's investments will meet these criteria.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the report contains some aspects which, in a mild way, point to what we have been denouncing for a long time, namely that the current community budget falls short of the requirements which are required for a real and effective promotion of the proclaimed economic and social cohesion at the level of the european union. this is all the more so when, in the midst of the crisis, the insufficient ceilings agreed in the current financial framework for 2007-2013 are not respected (less than around eur 29 billion between 2007 and 2009) and the budgeted funds are not implemented as 'spending' objectives, in particular as regards convergence and agriculture and fisheries. on the other hand, new priorities are being added which contradict what we believe should be the aim and the central priority of the community budget: an instrument of redistribution in the face of the costs, inequalities and asymmetries fostered by the internal market, economic and monetary union, and the liberalisation of international trade for the economically less developed countries and regions of the european union. a community budget which gives priority to real convergence, based on social progress and the safeguarding and promotion of the potential of each country, the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of the environment with the aim of economic and social cohesion, in addition to effective development aid. we also reaffirm that the community budget must be based on a fair contribution from each country on its gross national income, and we reject outright any attempt, more or less covert, to introduce european taxes.
at this point it should not be forgotten that we had a similar debate here last november, when it was already clear that we were facing a crisis in the capitalist system which required fundamental changes to improve the purchasing power of the majority of the population. that is why we insist on increasing wages and pensions and reforms through a fairer distribution of income. this remains the basic measure which can increase demand and thus ensure that the car industry and its components continue to have a secure market. unfortunately, the social situation is becoming more and more complicated, because the politicians are not taking the necessary measures, and unemployment and precarious and low-paid work are increasing. that is why we insist on new policies that give priority to employment with rights, that support industrial production in the countries of the european union, that oppose the strategy of the multinationals that use the pretext of the crisis to reduce jobs, increase the exploitation of those who work and increase profits. the european union's industries need to be properly supported in order to maintain and create more jobs with rights. but particular attention needs to be given to countries with weaker economies, such as portugal, by strengthening financial support to prevent unemployment and to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the automotive and related industries, component manufacturers and small repair shops.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that it is urgent that the vis should be able to start operations, and we need a community visa code. i acknowledge baroness ludford's work, but in good conscience i cannot support the compromise for a number of reasons. first, i disagree with the use of external service providers. when we approved sis ii, with the agreement of all the political groups, this parliament did not accept that private entities could have access to data, and at that time it was only car registration plates, which justifies the radical change in parliament's position, allowing private entities to collect this data, which is sensitive personal data, such as fingerprints. these companies may retain this data for one week, in accordance with the circumstances set out in the undertaking. secondly, there should be better data protection. diplomatic protection is essential to ensure effective protection of the personal rights of individuals. how can the protection of data collected by private companies be guaranteed, since such diplomatic protection has not been established? have we forgotten the swift case, with the transmission of data collected by american authorities? if this kind of situation has happened in a country like the united states, imagine what could happen in less developed countries with less protection of fundamental rights. third, the cost of visas is rising and varies from country to country. the commission proposal was aimed at preventing visa shopping. by giving private entities the possibility to charge a fee which will be added to the visa price, a difference will be created between the cost of visas from one member state to another. we are thus encouraging what we really wanted to combat, namely visa shopping. if the cost of a visa is 60 euros in one country and 90 euros in another, where will most of the applications be concentrated? especially in the case of multi-member families. not to mention the need to review the visa facilitation agreements which have been so strongly supported by this parliament, such as the ukraine and serbia. for all these reasons, madam president, i cannot accept this compromise.
the summit response was not ambitious enough. where is the determination to end tax havens and offshore companies? where is the decision to moralize the salaries of the directors of financial institutions? mr president, it is the rich who are paying for the crisis. because they're the ones who caused it. as regards the employment summit, it cannot be a small summit, because employment is not a small problem, it is a bigger problem affecting individuals and families. that is not how we can restore public confidence. finally, i hear you say that you do not need the socialist proposals. that's an arrogant claim. if the defenders of the neoliberal doctrine had listened to the warnings of the socialists, we would not be in this crisis today. isn't that how they learn? if you have not understood the gravity and the depth of this crisis and if you have not understood what has caused it, i fear the worst. i fear that the crisis will continue for many years, and that is not what we want.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods, as it simplifies the procedure for authorising and placing on the market novel foods and makes the authorisation procedure more efficient and transparent, giving consumers greater possibilities for informed choice. it should be underlined that novel foods should be placed on the market only if they are safe for consumers and should not mislead them. on the other hand, where new foods serve to replace other foods, they must not be inferior from the nutritional point of view.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report because it takes a positive view of the question of new foodstuffs and the more serious proposals from the right, which were intended to insist on gmos, were not adopted. as we had argued in the committee on agriculture, genetically modified organisms must be excluded, and new foods must not present health risks or mislead the consumer and, when consumed as a substitute food, must not present nutritional disadvantages for the consumer. the rapporteur believes that the new novel food regulation aims to achieve a high level of food safety, consumer protection, environmental protection and animal health, while respecting the precautionary principle, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002 laying down the general principles and rules of food law, establishing the european food safety authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety. all other objectives are of secondary importance. on the other hand, novel foods must not endanger or mislead consumers. where novel foods serve to replace other foods, they should not be considered by consumers to be inferior in nutritional terms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer. this regulation, now recast, is the main community instrument for ensuring compliance with the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer and ensuring not only greater protection against the destructive effects of uv radiation but also a reduction in the greenhouse effect. the european union must maintain its position as a world leader in this field, as it has done in the past.
in writing. - without questioning the need to ensure that community financial resources are used properly and in a timely manner (which is far from the case), the report points out some less correct and too ambiguous considerations. for example, it should be clarified that the resources which are by nature limited are defined by the eu, more specifically by imposition by the so-called six-nation charter countries which set the community budget at around 1% of gni. it is also important to clarify what should be understood by negative priorities and positive priorities, without which it is not possible to accept a principle that these negative priorities should be revised downwards in order to give way to more pressing priorities. if by negative priorities we mean, for example, the so-called new priorities such as the implementation of the neoliberal policies of the lisbon strategy, the security policies of the fortress europe or the militarisation of the eu, we say that we cannot agree more. however, if these are the positive priorities and the multiannual and overall strategic objectives (as they are), we are decidedly against it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. as we have said, although in a very mild way, the report makes some pertinent points which are in line with what we have been complaining about for a long time: that the current community budget is not meeting its needs or that every year substantial sums remain unbudgeted (less than about eur 29 billion between 2007 and 2009). the european parliament has been a member of the european parliament since the beginning of the year, and the european parliament has been a member of the european parliament since the beginning of the year. the ep also states that the additional policies should not alter the balance between the main categories of the current mff or undermine existing priorities, although it has removed with our vote against the mention of the two main policies under headings 1b and 2, respectively, convergence and agriculture and fisheries, and has instead placed the emphasis on the new priorities, i.e. the neoliberal objectives of the lisbon strategy (including so-called public-private partnerships), climate change or the militarisation of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the future of the motor vehicle industry. as the eu is the world's largest producer of motor vehicles and one of the largest private employers, support for this sector is key to responding to the current financial and economic crisis. i therefore advocate coordinated political action at european level to promote the adoption of measures to support industry, to ensure that producers and suppliers in the automotive sector have access to credit; to stimulate demand for new vehicles, including the granting of incentives for the withdrawal of old cars from circulation and the purchase of green vehicles; to provide financial support for skilled workers through the full use of the globalisation adjustment fund and the european special fund and to promote research and investment.
in writing. - given the importance of the automotive industry to the european economy, it is understandable that european governments and the european union as a whole are determined to respond to the present situation and to prevent the consequences of a crisis, which is intended to be temporary and which is being fought to be temporary, from making the industry irrecoverable. we support that concern. there are, however, some safeguards to be noted. if the primary objective is to save jobs, it must be in line with the ultimate objective of ensuring the survival of viable industries. this means that we must take advantage of the extraordinary investment in this sector to update, modernise and prepare it for greater competitiveness. the idea that it is possible, or desirable, to isolate and save an economic sector from competition, when it is healthy and fair, is an economic error and a political deception. despite all its failures, overcoming the crisis in the automotive sector, as well as the crisis in general, and preparing for the next moment is at the heart of the lisbon strategy: more competitiveness, more innovation, more jobs. let us help to recover the automobile sector, but let us not try to reinvent the wheel.
mr president, saved from the ashes left by the bush administration by the election of obama, the transatlantic partnership is no longer sufficient to solve the main challenges faced by humanity, but it is still necessary. europe must take advantage of this opportunity and articulate with the us the exit strategy for the current global crisis, upholding human security – and that does not only mean reforming the international financial system but regulating the whole globalisation process and investing in a sustainable economy at the global scale. we need more and stronger europe to help obama close guantánamo, end the secret prisons, and to define an alternative strategy for the security challenges in afghanistan, pakistan, iran and sudan, and put in place justice and peace for israelis and arabs. we need a stronger europe and a genuine partnership with the us to achieve the millennium development goals. only with an eu capable of sharing the burden and assuming its global responsibilities, an eu which is not just the sum of its parts, will we be taken seriously in washington, be able to influence the policies of the obama administration and be in a position to enable the genuine transatlantic partnership that the world still needs.
unlike our colleague ana gomes, who spoke earlier and who believes that the transatlantic relationship has been reborn with the election of obama, i think the news about the end of that relationship was clearly exaggerated. this report once again proves this and i commend its author for it. europe and the united states have long been indispensable allies for prosperity, development and globalisation. europe and the united states have long shared common challenges and even common adversaries, even if some, particularly on this side of the atlantic, are reluctant to acknowledge it. and for a long time both europeans and americans have known what must be done to respond to the needs of a world that remains unjust, unequal, dangerous, and now in global crisis. but the crisis must not make us retreat, nor must we fail to show diplomatic firmness, political and military commitment to our obligations as allies, nor the return of the collectivist economy or the reappearance of protectionism, which would be fatal to the revival of our economies. thanks to an economy that has opened up on a global scale, europe and the united states now have strong allies in japan, india, brazil and various asian countries. despite the current crisis, there are many people in the world who continue to look to our countries and aspire to live like us one day. for all these peoples, europe and america must once again be the alliance that leads the economy of prosperity, that shares it and makes it global. this is also why the next g20 summit is so important, not because it is an opportunity to know who is closest to barack obama, but because it is an opportunity to prove that we have answers and leadership, cooperating with the new powers in the reforms that are needed, but knowing that only the economic model based on the creative power of men will allow to create wealth - i say wealth and i do not say greed - jobs, development, and overcome the crisis. the fact is that, mr president, otherwise it will not be possible, at least in a lasting way, to create new jobs or to show real solidarity with those who, in these difficult times, are most in need.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 march 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the joint debate on the oral question to the council on the eu-turkmenistan interim trade agreement, tabled by mr jan marinus wiersma, ms erika mann, mr daniel caspary, mr robert sturdy, ms cristiana muscardini and mr eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and the union for europe of nations group (o-0024/2009 - b6-0019/2009), is hereby concluded.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 26 march 2009.
the following are statements by the council and the commission on the semiannual evaluation of the eu-belarus dialogue.
then the catch the eye period. i have too many requests for intervention and too many of them are concentrated in the ppe-de group. i shall be giving the floor to three members only.
mr president, that has always been the case and will continue to be the case as long as i am president. since there is simultaneous requesting of the floor, since practically all members are asking for the floor at the same time, and since i am limited to five requests to speak, i cannot extend this period without prejudice to the other debates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, the point of order is clear. it's no use insisting, i won't give you the floor. i'm not giving you the floor. the point of order is clear.
i should like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this has nothing to do with the previous intervention. it's just the balanced management i always do of this catch the eye period.
i still had mr beazley, but apparently he left the room angry with me, so i don't have the opportunity to give him the floor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the following are statements by the council and the commission on european consciousness and totalitarianism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate i would like to be involved in would be one aimed at putting an end to any measures to help those most in need because they have become unnecessary. unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment we live in europe and the world. in the european union, many families affected by unemployment or social exclusion have seen their income become insufficient to meet their most basic needs and therefore owe them our solidarity. the commission's initiative under discussion deserves our applause, especially since it is now a question, as in the past, of finding another easy channel for disposing of surpluses. that's not the case now. the financial allocations for this programme are justified in being increased. i also congratulate the commission for proposing that this support be covered by the agricultural budget. there is no greater solidarity than that of farmers, and there are no communities that are more involved in helping one another than rural communities. i am sure that european farmers are very proud to share a part of the agricultural budget with those who need it most. my group will therefore reject the liberal proposals which call into question the legal basis of this regulation. the commission proposal can and must be improved. the siekierski report and the amendment which the socialist group will table in the plenary are good contributions to improving the report, particularly as regards the eligibility of storage costs and the full community financing of the programme. i therefore call on the house to approve this report and on the commission to accept parliament's contributions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived persons. poverty is one of the major problems facing the eu at the moment and, as early as 2006, there were almost 79 million people at risk of poverty, so the need for food aid programmes is clear. since the commission's proposal aims at distributing food to the most needy people and better planning so that the funds can be used more efficiently, and also taking into account that since its inception in 1987 the food distribution programme has already benefited over 13 million people, i think that the continuation of this programme is both necessary and positive.
in writing. - the free trade agreement with india is another step forward by europe and india towards making the world economy freer and expanding its advantages. and it's also a particularly significant signal in today's environment. the conclusion of this agreement is therefore to be commended. but his analysis does merit some more critical reflection. for free trade to work effectively, a set of rules must be respected to prevent counterfeiting, the use of products prohibited in the countries of destination must be avoided, indications of origin must be clear, information must be available, transparency must be ensured and international agreements must be respected. another relevant aspect is the idea that the benefits of free trade are mutual. in other words, the opening up of frontiers is not just about opening up the markets of developed countries to products from third countries. the virtues of trade are the mutual possibility of exchange, the openness of the economy, and they should be extended to developing and fast-growing countries. and that will only happen if the barriers to trade and investment in those countries are also reduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on food prices in europe because i think that political action is needed to deal with the rise in agricultural and food prices and the discrepancy between the producer price and the price paid by the consumer. in europe, the price paid by the final consumer is approximately five times the production price, a situation that has affected low-income households, whose food expenditure accounts for the largest share of the household budget.
in writing. − the internet is a major technological advance, providing the interconnection of its users, the creation of personal, professional and pedagogical relationships, the dissemination of knowledge and the dissemination and promotion of culture. but internet crime has proliferated, and it has become a preferred tool of action for criminal networks, since it is easily accessible, cheap and quite powerful. in the last year, cases of abuse against children on the internet have increased by 16%, with no effective punishment or even the ability to find these criminals in most cases; or terrorism there are already some 5000 terrorist propaganda websites that function as a means of radicalization and recruitment, while also serving as a source of information on terrorist means and methods. i recognize the need and urgency to find solutions and to create the appropriate legislative instruments to combat crime without falling into excessive and unnecessary control through censorship and the secret surveillance of internet traffic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the stavros lambrinidis report on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the internet, as i believe that the european union needs to take action to reconcile the fundamental rights of internet users and the fight against cybercrime, in order to protect citizens, especially children. i believe that this requires the development of standards on data protection, security and freedom of expression.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on safe ship recycling, as i believe there is a great need to address this issue as an integral part of the life cycle of a ship. end-of-life ships should be considered as hazardous waste because of the hazardous substances they contain and should therefore be covered by the basel convention. i am pleased to see that there is a community will to improve ship dismantling practices.
in writing. - european environmental protection objectives can only be implemented to a large extent if they are integrated into the various sectors of community policy. the resolution therefore seeks to speed up all the measures that the union must take to ensure that the dismantling of end-of-life ships is carried out in conditions which are safe for workers and adequately protect the marine environment. the global phase-out of single-hull tankers and the scrapping of old vessels being withdrawn from the market, many of which contain dangerous substances, make us foresee an uncontrolled expansion of installations which do not comply with international standards in south asia, and may even extend to african countries. all these reasons lead us to support this motion for a resolution and the measures aimed at meeting international safety and environmental standards.
commissioner vladimir spidla will have to speak at this stage of the debate. he'll explain better than i will the reasons why he has to do it. i'll give you the floor right away.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barrot will be replacing commissioner špidla in the final part of this debate.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, as did my colleagues from the epp-ed in the libe committee. this is due to the excellent work done by the shadow rapporteur, patrick gauber, in trying to find a balanced compromise. i also welcome the work of the rapporteur, kathalijne buitenweg, and i support her call for everyone to avoid radicalizing positions and to seek the widest possible consensus. as in all compromises, there are points where we can make our opinion prevail and others that we find more difficult to accept. this is a commitment which must take account of the legislation, practice and different cultural traditions in 27 member states. i welcome points such as the 10-year deadline for adapting buildings to enable disabled people to access goods, services and resources; and if structural difficulties persist which cannot be overcome, alternatives can always be found. i also sympathize with the concerns we have expressed about the insurance companies - that they have been taken into account, for example, with the involvement of medical advice. i cannot accept, however, that the reference to the principle of subsidiarity in matters of family, matrimonial and reproductive law, which was approved in committee, should be deleted, these are the exclusive competence of the member states. the same applies to article 8, which the epp's amendment no 90 seeks to remove, because, in view of the legislative traditions existing in many member states, it is not possible to accept the inversion of the burden of proof, since it will create insurmountable legal problems. if these key points are finally adopted in plenary, i shall not be able to vote in favour of this report. but i can never in good conscience vote against a directive which prohibits discrimination against people regardless of their religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. it is also a question, mr president, and i conclude, of defining the kind of europe we want to help build. i am clearly in favour of a europe that will fight without cease any form of discrimination.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 2 april 2009. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the global financial crisis, the plan for the relaunch of the european economy states that cohesion policy makes a significant contribution to public investment by the member states and regions and should act as a way of recovering from the current crisis. it specifically suggests that action be taken in the priority areas of the lisbon strategy in order to achieve growth and jobs. all instruments put into operation seek to achieve this purpose and to accelerate the achievement of results. in this sense, the extension of the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the streamlining of the european social fund have a particular responsibility to respond to the multiple situations of social and economic emergency that need support. i am sure, today as in the past, that its action will be all the more effective the more complementary its actions and its scope are. however, as no new funds or new lines of action on the ground are planned, it is particularly important that the european social fund is used to its full potential in combating unemployment and the rapidly increasing competitiveness pressures in the european economy resulting from the current financial crisis and economic slowdown. i would like to stress that the regi committee has repeatedly identified simplification as essential to improving the management and implementation of the structural funds, as the european commission is now proposing. we have been asked for urgency on this matter, however, and we have taken it into account in adopting this package of regulations, and this house has never shied away from its political responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we stress the need to start an evaluation process of this fund now with a view to a further review as soon as possible.
in writing. - concrete steps have been taken to make european citizenship a reality, from which portuguese emigrants in other community countries benefit in particular by enjoying a wide range of rights and obligations, including equal treatment with nationals of the host state. the most significant development was undoubtedly the adoption of the citizenship directive which established an unconditional right of permanent residence for eu citizens and their families residing in the host state for a period of 5 years. however, there is still a lot to be done, as obstacles still exist, mostly resulting from incorrect implementation of this directive by member states. i welcome the commission's initiative to publish a guide to this directive so that information on the rights which citizens can enjoy is available not only to citizens but also to the authorities at regional and local level in the member states. it is essential to continue strengthening the social and political ties that bind eu citizens together. the lisbon treaty should make a significant contribution to this, in particular through the 'citizens' initiative' which will allow citizens, under certain conditions, to have a right of initiative.
in writing. - although it includes a number of points which naturally merit our agreement, as well as others which can be described as 'politically correct', this ep resolution entitled 'the problems and prospects of eu citizenship' would be laughable if it were not serious. let's see. the ep: - welcomes the fact that the lisbon treaty makes it possible for one million union citizens from different member states to collectively invite the commission to submit legislative proposals, and is convinced that this legal right will contribute to significantly increasing awareness of union citizenship among europeans; - reminds that transparency and democratic participation must be achieved through various forms of partnership between the eu and the member states, regional and local institutions, the social partners and civil society; finally, a tongue-in-cheek that makes us think that this 'citizenship of the union' thing is very nice as long as citizens are prevented from deciding what really matters, namely by making it impossible for them to vote on the 'lisbon treaty' or, if that is not possible, by forcing them to hold referendums, as many as necessary, so that they say yes... hypocrisy at its finest...
in writing. the aim of the proposal is to limit consumer exposure to pharmacologically active substances used in veterinary medicinal products for human consumption and their residues in foodstuffs of animal origin. foodstuffs imported from third countries are covered. after a long process, the text of the common position was obtained, reflecting the compromise reached through the negotiations between the three institutions. the main points adopted in the new text are as follows: - reference values for action: now defined as the residue level of a pharmacologically active substance established for control purposes for certain substances for which no maximum residue limits have been set in accordance with this regulation; - import: member states shall prohibit the import and placing on the market of food of animal origin containing residues resulting from the unlawful administration of pharmacologically active substances which are not subject to classification in accordance with the text. therefore, imports of food products from third countries containing residues resulting from the illegal administration of substances the use of which is prohibited in the european union should be prohibited in order to safeguard public health.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis europe is going through should be seen as an opportunity to take measures that will help not only the recovery of member states but also the awareness of the populations towards more sustainable behaviour. the possibility of improving the energy efficiency of housing buildings by allocating funds up to 4% of the erdf to each member state has a double benefit: on the one hand, it reduces household fixed energy expenditure, on the other hand, it reduces national consumption, contributing to energy security and reducing fossil fuel imports and greenhouse gas emissions. i welcome this report and hope that the member states will be able to integrate this budget into their national energy efficiency action plans and implement it in a responsible and pragmatic way. i hope that this money will particularly benefit small island regions, since it is in these regions that energy production has the least means of being realised, thus requiring responsible energy use by all. investment in energy efficiency is one of the most important tools for this purpose and should be a priority for member state governments.
in writing. − i agree with a common visa policy that facilitates legitimate travel and implements measures to facilitate the visa application and processing process (reduction of costs, simplification of the issuing procedure, use of multiple-entry visas, longer validity periods). it is also urgent to combat illegal immigration by further harmonising national legislation and consular practices. i recognise the need and urgency to make the common visa policy more coherent, in particular by integrating all the provisions governing the issuing of visas and decisions on refusal, extension, annulment, revocation and reduction of visas into a single code. i commend the rapporteur, mr lax, for the excellent compromise he has succeeded in obtaining, but i regret that the weak compromise obtained in the report on the common consular instructions (which should be included in this proposal) ultimately undermines the merits of this proposal. the exemption and reduction of the value of visas for children, which was achieved here, is an example of this, but it does not produce the expected effects because of the additional fees to be charged when the service is provided by external companies. for all the reasons which have already led me to vote against this report, i cannot support it fully, and i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on a community eco-label scheme, as i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage the sustainable production and consumption of products. the eco-label is appropriate to guide consumers to the recommended eco-friendly products on the market and to encourage the production and consumption of products with good environmental performance.
in writing. as the report shows, the eco-label is a voluntary label whose purpose is to promote, at european level, the promotion of high-efficiency products with a low environmental impact throughout their life cycle. to this end, ecological quality standards (which we call 'criteria') have been developed for each specific product category. there are currently 26 product categories, 622 authorisations and more than 3000 products and services - detergents, paper, clothing (including footwear and textiles), tourism, campsites, etc. - which have been awarded eco-labels. this brand, and the flower that symbolizes it, can be considered as a dynamic element which, thanks to the constant updating of the environmental criteria for the products bearing it, encourages companies to operate in a virtuous circle of efforts aimed at increasing the overall ecological quality of the products placed on the market. but there appear to be several gaps in the existing system, taking into account the experience gained over the almost ten years of existence of this certification, which points to the need for more decisive intervention to close certain gaps in the system. the commission's proposal for a new regulation, which meps want to see improved, is part of this context.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on voluntary participation by organisations in a community eco-management and audit scheme (emas), as it helps organisations to identify, monitor, measure and report on their environmental impact. emas was first introduced in 1995 and extended in 2001 to public and private sector organisations. this new revision is an opportunity to make the system more attractive and simple for small and medium-sized enterprises and also an attempt to get emas to have the same level of participation as iso 14001 (which is the leading environmental management system in europe) currently has. it is also important to note that the recognition of emas as a benchmark in environmental management systems is in line with the eu's objective of combating climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'equal treatment for all', which includes several amendments to the european commission's proposal, strengthening the protection of citizens, including people with disabilities who are victims of discrimination. according to 2008 eurobarometer data, 15% of european citizens claim to have been discriminated against in the past year. this is an unacceptable situation, and i welcome the fact that this text has been adopted by the european parliament, despite the incomprehensible vote against by the right. i believe it is essential that legislation prohibits direct and indirect discrimination, multiple discrimination or discrimination on grounds of association, sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or gender, and in areas such as social protection, education and access to goods and services such as housing, transport, telecommunications and health.
in writing. - another resolution deeply rooted in a view of interference and stigmatisation towards belarus, assuming the character of gross interference in the internal affairs of that country. beyond the mystifying and manichean language, the goal is clear: what the eu does not accept and seeks to overcome is the assertion of belarus's sovereignty and the definition of an autonomous policy, not subordinated to eu/nato/us interests. the eu therefore uses blackmail and sanctions, which it claims can be lifted if belarus takes the measures it requires, for example: the imperative to include the democratic opposition of belarus and civil society in the eu-belarus dialogue, to make full and effective use of the possibilities of supporting civil society and democratic development in belarus through the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr) or financial support to the independent belarusian television channel belsat. would any of the eu countries accept such conditions? the hypocrisy of this position is evident, especially when the 'european family' of the so-called 'democratic nations' has not uttered a single word of condemnation of the real massacre perpetrated by the israeli army against the palestinian people in gaza or of the criminal flights of the cia, with which it is, moreover, complicit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on totalitarian regimes. i believe that europe will not be united until it is able to achieve a common vision of its history and to conduct an honest and thorough debate on the crimes committed by nazism, stalinism and the fascist and communist regimes in the last century. i think that the process of european integration is a success in that it has enabled the construction of a european union which today encompasses the countries of central and eastern europe which lived under communist regimes from the end of the second world war to the beginning of the 1990s, and has helped to secure democracy in southern europe in countries such as greece, spain and portugal, which suffered from long-standing fascist regimes.
in writing. the european parliament's shameful resolution is part of the operation of distorting historical truth carried out by the reactionary and revanchist forces that were defeated in the second world war. these are the same forces that, for example, rehabilitate in their countries those who collaborated with the nazi barbarity. the aim is to whitewash nazism and fascism and condemn communism, that is to whitewash the executioner and the oppressor, condemning their victims and their oppressed. the aim is to erase the decisive contribution of the communists and the soviet union to the defeat of nazi-fascism, their role in improving the living conditions of the workers, their contribution to the liberation of peoples from the colonial yoke, their role against exploitation and war after the second world war. in portugal, no one like the pcp has fought for freedom, democracy, peace, human rights, decent living conditions for the portuguese people, freedom for the peoples colonized by fascism, for the achievements enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic, which is now 33 years old. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the resolution is all the more serious at a time of acute crisis for capitalism, which has made the struggle for peace, democracy and social progress the great demand of our time.
in writing. the resolution now adopted makes clear the aims and objectives that the majority of the ep wants for eu-russia relations: that they 'be based on the principles of liberalised and open markets and reciprocity of investment rights between the partners, and therefore require that, in return for close and beneficial economic ties, the russian government guarantees the property rights of foreign investors'. in other words, the aim is to pressure russia, for example, to give up its immense natural resources - in particular natural gas and oil - to condition its productive capacity and to make its labour available for exploitation and to the interests of the great powers and big capital in the eu, which wants to have access to what should belong to the russian people. the resolution puts all the pressure on russia, but there is no mention of nato's eastward enlargement and the installation of the new us missile system in europe. we reject this kind of relationship. we support the establishment of fair and mutually respectful relations between the parties, based on the interests of their peoples, respecting the principles of non-interference, disarmament and denuclearization.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on health concerns associated with electromagnetic fields, as this is a matter which directly affects all european citizens exposed to electromagnetic fields, both at home and at work. over the past few years, exposure to man-made sources of electromagnetic fields has increased substantially, mainly due to increased demand for electricity and increasingly advanced wireless technologies. i therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance to ensure a high level of protection for all consumers, without, however, jeopardising the operation of mobile networks and the development of new wireless technologies.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president of the committee on budgetary control, ladies and gentlemen, we are now faced with the completion of the most profound reform ever of the european parliament, with the creation of statutes for both its members and assistants, with the end of the unacceptable wage discrimination between its members, with the end of a system which is not very transparent in the payment of our travel expenses and with the end of a discriminatory pension system. as rapporteur for parliament's discharge, as a member of the committee on budgetary control for ten years now and as a spokesman for the socialists, i am very proud of what we have achieved and i think it would not be too much to ask to see our public take note of these changes which it has insistently called for. that said, i am today, as i have always been, absolutely in favour of full transparency in the use of public funds and i fully agree with the views of the european ombudsman on this matter. i am, as i have always been, against the use of public funds to cover private risk. i am today, as i have always been, against voluntary pension systems which ignore wage differences, creating inequalities in treatment. i think it is unacceptable to make absolutely unfair generalizations, to present all members of the european parliament as having the right to two pensions. as the author of this report, i would like to stress that after ten years as a member of the european parliament and after brief periods in the portuguese parliament and the regional parliament of the azores, i will now be retiring from parliamentary work without being entitled to any national, regional or european pension. i would like to say that those who think that the denial of the rights of their representatives, which are common in our societies, contributes to making europe better, are deeply mistaken. on the contrary, i am convinced that the only way to overcome the mistrust of any citizen in his representatives is to limit to a minimum the establishment of specific rules for the parliamentarians who are responsible for their approval. i believe that the only question that parliament should decide on is the relative place of the member within the european administration. i regret the lack of clarity in the past between public duty and private interest in the pension system, but i would like to see recognition of the work of all those who, particularly in our committee on budgetary control, have fought tirelessly for the accuracy and transparency of european accounts. i would like to pay a warm tribute to all of you here, and i also wish that the work which our committee has done so far will be continued in the next legislature with the same vigour and the same commitment to a more rigorous, fairer and more united europe as it has done so far. the parliament that will be elected in june will operate under much more transparent and equitable rules, and that is something that all of us here today have reason to celebrate.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of mr romeva's report, which i congratulate on its openness, is to ensure that the rules of the common fisheries policy are respected. respect for these rules and a european approach to fisheries are the best way to safeguard the interests of the sector. if all the workers in the sector - from the crew on board to the fish sellers - do not comply with the rules, their survival is doomed. the attempt to apply european rules without reflecting the diversity of european fleets will also contribute to failure. i therefore proposed that the commission proposal be adapted more closely to the reality of small-scale fleets - although i would like to go further - which are somewhat spread throughout the european union, particularly in the octs, without ever forgetting that a common fisheries policy requires adequate control measures. as rapporteur for the fisheries budget, i have repeatedly lamented the insufficient level of compliance with european rules and have called for better control by the member states, transparency of inspection results and a stronger community inspection policy, provided that this is accompanied by financial measures to support the sector. we would certainly like to go further, but i cannot help but congratulate the rapporteur on the proposal and the measures he has put forward, and i expect the commissioner to give a full answer on this matter.
i am not saying that the european union should be a political force, but i am saying that it should be a political force. the law defines the extent and boundary of the territorial waters, the exclusive economic zone, and portugal's rights to the contiguous seabed. the state shall not alienate any part of the portuguese territory or the sovereign rights it exercises over it. article 5 of the constitution of the portuguese republic could not be clearer. in line with this and in order to ensure that the provisions of the portuguese basic law are respected, we have therefore tabled an amendment to the proposal for a regulation which states that this proposal respects and does not affect the competence and responsibility of the member states to monitor compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. however, the amendments of the committee on fisheries, although in some respects they minimize the negative aspects of the unacceptable proposal of the european commission, do not safeguard principles which we consider to be central. among other burdensome and inappropriate aspects, it is unacceptable that the commission has the power to carry out unannounced and independent inspections in the exclusive economic zones and territory of the member states, that it can arbitrarily prohibit fishing activities and suspend or cancel payments of community financial assistance to a member state, or that a member state can inspect its fishing vessels in the exclusive economic zone of any other member state without its authorisation. i would like to end by recalling what this parliament itself has approved: the importance of control in fisheries management, which is the responsibility of the member states. we hope that once again you will not now take what has been said for what has not been said - as, unfortunately, has been your habit.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal of yours is absolutely fundamental. anyone who reads the court of auditors' report on the state of play of the common fisheries policy can have no doubt that this initiative by the european commission was absolutely indispensable. but it is also true that our rapporteur has done an absolutely exceptional job here, and has taken account of many of the specific features - particularly small-scale fishing - and has taken account of some of our suggestions. i would like to congratulate him very much on the exemplary work he has done. but i would like to say that i am in favour of subsidiarity. but there can be no subsidiarity in control if there is no subsidiarity in the logic of the common fisheries policy. that is the challenge facing the commissioner in reforming the common fisheries policy, and i wish him every success in meeting this challenge, which is essential for all fisheries in europe.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to congratulate the commission on this legislative initiative and our rapporteur, represented here by our colleague mrs carmen fraga. i think it is true that we were faced with an absolute urgency to simplify the legislative body in this area. but i also think we have to go much further, particularly in two fundamental areas, the first of which is rejection. i think that the reform we are about to introduce should simply prohibit any rejection as a matter of principle. rejections must be absolutely forbidden. and secondly, i think that the principle should be established that all vessels in regions where the regional or national authorities so understand it should comply with standards that are stricter than those of the european union. these are two fundamental principles which are missing here and which i hope will be taken into account in the reform of the cfp.
in writing. according to eurostat, the eu's ageing population will become a reality in the medium term. immigration could act as an important stimulus to achieve good economic performance in the eu. in this sense, it is necessary to recognise the essential nature of the migration phenomenon for the eu. the fight against illegal labour is crucial as it absolutely violates the rights of migrant workers; we must promote a european policy which favours the regularisation of illegal immigrant workers, ensuring that they do not fall into summary return procedures which violate their rights. these workers are already in a position of inferiority when they arrive in europe and it is clear that a proper management of migration flows could benefit both the eu and third countries. the recurrent under-utilisation of skills by migrant workers must be tackled. these workers are often subject to work requiring much lower qualifications than they possess, a phenomenon particularly notable among women. i think that the commission should pay particular attention to the issue of the recognition of skills and the encouragement of lifelong learning, while also ensuring the right of immigrants to learn the language of the host country as a means of social, professional and cultural integration into the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the crisis has, among other things, made it possible to highlight the strong imbalances between the countries of the euro area, perhaps the main conclusion of the report on the economic and monetary union of the 10, but above all the extreme vulnerability of the countries which, being members of the european union, do not belong to the euro area. that is why it is absolutely essential to increase the funds available at european level to support balance of payments crises, and that is why we welcome the move from 12 to 25 and then to 50 million euros of the necessary funds. however, it is more important to tackle the root causes of problems, not just their most obvious manifestations. today, the enlarged europe and the eurozone must reinterpret the meaning of european solidarity and the objectives of cohesion and real convergence. the capacity of european horizontal policies must be seen in this light, but new financing instruments such as eurobonds must also be reviewed. financial assistance to the balance of payments is necessary but it is far from sufficient to ensure the sustainability of the european project and the single european currency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market, because illegal logging is a serious and growing problem with very serious environmental implications such as loss of biodiversity, deforestation and forest degradation. moreover, it can be blamed for almost 20 percent of global carbon emissions. the european union, as a major consumer of timber and timber products, has an obligation to take effective measures against deforestation and illegal logging, measures which should also prevent the marketing of illegal timber products. legislation against illegal logging is needed to show consumers that products are from legal sources, that companies that comply with these rules will not be harmed and that companies that opt for illegal timber products lose their market.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report because we consider it important to maintain stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products. the creation of reserves is a matter of great economic and social importance for each country, including its security, and therefore any kind of speculation on these reserves should be prohibited, contrary to what has been happening, and their ownership and administration should be public, to defend the interest of the eu countries. however, we do not agree with the powers that this proposal for a directive confers on the european commission, in particular the possibility for the commission services to carry out checks on safety reserves and specific reserves in the member states. the countries should build up their own reserves of these products, but it is a matter of sovereignty to administer them and to define their maximum or minimum levels. we also reject any attempt to use the creation of these reserves as yet another justification, albeit a mitigated one, for a policy of interference, as if it could be inferred from the creation of a favourable investment climate for the exploration and exploitation of oil reserves inside and outside the european union.
in writing. − this initiative is part of the overall strategy for the protection of critical infrastructure. the eu's economy and the safety and well-being of its citizens depend on the existence and proper functioning of a set of infrastructures that provide essential services such as health services, telecommunications, energy and transport networks, financial services, water and food supplies, etc. while some member states already have strong protection measures and structures in place, in others the situation is still very precarious. it is therefore important that there should be a better and more efficient exchange of information and good practice, which will only be possible through the establishment of this information and communication system. this will strengthen dialogue and information availability on shared threats and vulnerabilities, as well as cooperation and coordination between member states. at the same time, the development of appropriate measures and strategies to limit risks and promote adequate protection is encouraged and the safety of citizens is enhanced. i also support the inclusion of a three-year review clause, which should allow for any improvements that may be needed, including the possibility of creating a rapid alert system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on a critical infrastructure alert network (cirn). some member states' infrastructures consist of material resources, services, information technology equipment, which, if damaged, can have very serious consequences for health, safety and economic or social well-being. transport, telecommunications and energy systems are crucial sectors for the development of member states and are also increasingly interconnected sectors, where some member states are dependent on others. for this reason, the need for a single system for linking and sharing information between different authorities in the field of critical infrastructure protection, exchange of good practices and an early warning system is of the utmost importance for the development of the european union.
in writing. − the protection of officials is a responsibility which remains within the competence and the legislation in force in the host state. in order to improve cooperation and communication between member states in this area, a european network for the protection of officials was set up in 2002. the purpose of this initiative is to broaden the definition of official provided for in article 2 of that decision to include any person who, whether or not holding a public office, considers himself or herself to be threatened by his or her influence and contribution to the public debate. this dutch proposal arose following an incident in 2008 with a former dutch mep who, following a speech she gave at a seminar in the european parliament on islamic radicalisation, was the target of threats to her physical integrity. as the epp's shadow rapporteur, i support this initiative which aims to extend the scope of protection of human rights, and in particular to promote the right to freedom of expression.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on the integrated approach to equality between men and women in the work of committees and delegations. the own-initiative report shows the progress made in committees and delegations and reinforces the need to adopt and implement gender equality strategies. the call for gender equality is not against men. it is for the benefit of society as a whole, thus benefiting women and men and families. an integrated approach to equality implies the reorganisation, improvement, development and evolution of policies with the aim of integrating the equality dimension into all policies at all levels and at all stages by the actors associated with key policy decisions. it is therefore necessary to adopt and implement a strategy accompanied by concrete objectives for an integrated approach to gender equality in community policies within the remit of parliamentary committees and delegations.
in writing. the third energy package should gradually develop the energy market, which until recently was based on a monopoly system. the move towards liberalisation implies genuine and sustained competition and highlights the importance of a stronger energy regulatory cooperation agency with clearly independent powers. the main objective of the agency shall be to assist the regulatory authorities in carrying out, at community level, the tasks carried out by the member states and, where necessary, to coordinate their action. the agency will also ensure the supervision of the internal markets in electricity and natural gas and contribute to all efforts to improve energy security. i would stress the key role of this agency in the future of energy policy in europe, which we want to see characterized by more competitive and diverse conditions, away from the monopolies of the past, together with conditions of increased safety and greater efficiency, for the benefit of consumers. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report, which is an integral part of the energy package that was adopted today, as i believe it is another important step towards improving the quality of life of europe's citizens. the possibility of better interconnections between electricity grids, the existence of strong and suitable regulators ensuring market transparency and transnational cooperation are all very important factors in ensuring that final consumers can enjoy a truly fair and competitive service. shared responsibility and cooperation between member states in both electricity and natural gas are the cornerstones of a genuine european energy market, which is to be fair, dynamic and sustainable.
in writing. the third energy package will make up for the many structural shortcomings of the past. we must also remember the discrimination against new energy suppliers and a certain lack of transparency in terms of prices and choice of supplier. finally, with this package we can hope to complete the liberalisation of the internal energy market in the union. the adoption of this third package and of this proposal in particular will make european energy markets more competitive, sustainable and secure. consumer rights are expected to be at the heart of the process of opening up markets in the face of the agreement reached, which includes the issue of separation of ownership, independence of national regulatory authorities, as well as conditions for a clarification of responsibilities between the national authorities, the agency and the european network of transmission system operators. i voted in favour of this report in the hope that consumers will have a more transparent market, with access to detailed information and the possibility of changing energy suppliers without any cost.
in writing. − i welcome this report, aware that it will be another instrument for improving consumer information, contributing to a more transparent market, where the choice between products is made in a conscious and informed way, based on simple standards but with scientific and technological justification. in my view, this report represents another step towards an energy-sustainable europe by allowing consumers to choose tyres that lead to lower fuel consumption in their vehicles. on the other hand, the possibility to choose a tyre according to its specific behaviour is another tool for the consumer to protect himself and to equip his motor vehicle in a way appropriate to his driving style and the environmental conditions in which he is travelling. i also note the healthy and technologically-oriented competition which this system will impose on the tyre market, leading to technological developments of the various brands being able to be compared and appreciated by consumers in a clear and objective way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the labelling of tyres with regard to energy efficiency. since almost 25% of total co2 emissions come from road transport, reducing the energy intensity of vehicles is a very important challenge for the european union. the creation of a labelling system that ensures adequate information on fuel efficiency and grip, among other characteristics, will allow consumers to make informed choices when purchasing tyres. since tyres account for 20 to 30% of total fuel consumption, enhancing sustainability should be an integral part of an approach to reducing fuel consumption and consequently carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
in writing. - i am opposed, in principle, to the legislator intervening in the market and fixing prices. i believe that it is up to the market to set its own prices in accordance with the essential principles of fair competition. this is precisely what is lacking in roaming and what justifies the european parliament's intervention to fix maximum tariffs below which telecommunications operators are now obliged to compete. i voted in favour of this regulation not being limited to calls made or received, but also including sms and data roaming. an eu that promotes the free movement of its citizens is not compatible with market rules that end or limit themselves to crossing a border. today, the overwhelming majority of citizens continue to be reluctant to use their mobile phones when they are abroad for fear of the roaming bill. i voted in favour of this regulation precisely because it requires cheaper rates for roaming customers, while at the same time strengthening the rules on price transparency. this is a concrete example of the way the eu is in our daily lives. from now on, when european citizens return from holidays or a business trip abroad, they will remember that the reduction in their mobile phone bill is due to the eu.
in writing. - the completion of the internal market is a fundamental objective of the union and therefore our joint efforts to achieve the best possible conditions of competition in the various economic sectors are very important. the globalization of trade, commerce and communications is no exception. the report on the mobile communications market is therefore important. the result of the agreement at first reading is a victory for parliament for the regulation to enter into force in july 2009. this report sets the conditions for greater transparency and consumer protection and, moreover, for fairer and clearer competition for everyone, from industry to consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − nuclear energy will play a key role in the energy future of our societies. therefore, and given the prospects for future installations in europe, it is essential to establish a common european framework for nuclear safety. mr hökmark's report will make it possible to create the best and safest conditions for future nuclear installations in europe. a clear framework with strong and independent national regulatory bodies will be established, as will a system for the licensing of nuclear installations and a system for the inspection and control of nuclear installations. the future importance of nuclear requires excellence in the conditions for its implementation and the conditions for the exchange of information necessary to establish the same and higher safety conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we regret the significant rejection by the majority of the ep of our amendment which, in line with and in pursuit of respect for the constitution of the portuguese republic, that is, national sovereignty, stated that this proposal for a regulation respects and does not call into question the competence and responsibility of the member states to monitor compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. we regret the significant rejection by the majority of the ep of our amendment proposals which prevent the european commission from carrying out unannounced and independent inspections in the eez and the territory of the member states; and from being able, on a discretionary basis, to prohibit fishing activities and suspend or cancel payments of community financial assistance to a member state; or from a member state being able to inspect its fishing vessels in the eez of any member state without its authorisation. the proposal for a regulation, which will continue to be negotiated by the eu institutions, if approved as it stands, will represent another step in the disregard of national sovereignty, by incorporating requirements regarding equipment and procedures which have been pointed out as completely inadequate for portuguese fisheries. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. - a common approach to immigration in the eu is imperative. in an area without internal borders there can be no fragmented and incoherent approach, because any action or immigration policy taken by one member state necessarily has consequences for all the others. i therefore support the creation of a common european immigration policy based on a sharing of responsibility, a high level of political and operational solidarity and mutual trust. the adoption of the pact on immigration and asylum was a major step in this direction, initiating a more coherent, controlled immigration policy linked to the labour market needs of european countries, as well as to the resources available in housing, health and education. allied to a firm fight against illegal immigration. the excellent report by mr busuttil follows this line, the only problem being an amendment tabled by the socialist group which calls into question the firmness of our fight against illegal immigration, since there is no doubt that any immigrant legally resident in the territory of a member state will have the right to vote, under the conditions laid down. i therefore support the alternative resolution proposed by the rapporteur, who has once again tried to reach a compromise that can be acceptable to all.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on a common immigration policy for europe, since immigration is one of the main challenges facing europe today. in trying to overcome the problem of immigration, it is possible to adopt policies that can turn it into an opportunity. immigration is a common concern in the countries of the european union and therefore they must act together to find an appropriate response to this problem. this report seeks to cover all the dimensions of immigration, supporting the creation of a common european policy based on a high level of political and operational solidarity. it also includes measures to enable immigrants to participate in the civic and political life of their societies, including political parties and trade unions, and to vote in local elections.
in writing. - a report with 91 articles obviously includes some points with which we agree; however, this report, despite its attempt to gild the pill, is deeply negative, and so we have clearly rejected it. it strongly supports the creation of a common european immigration policy, welcoming the institutional implications of the lisbon treaty, in particular the extension of co-decision and qualified majority voting to all immigration policies, and welcoming the adoption of the european pact on immigration - that is, an inhumane immigration policy of a security-oriented, criminalising, exploitative and selective nature. if there were any doubts about the eu's aims, the report clarifies them: migration remains necessary to meet eu labour market needs (around 60 million migrant workers by 2050), so migration profiles should be established with labour market needs as a central aspect of these profiles and the attractiveness of the eu for highly skilled workers should be increased, notably through the blue card i.e. an inhuman view of immigrants, which sees them only as labour to be exploited. more than a common policy, what is needed is a policy that defends the rights of immigrants and tackles the root causes of immigration.
in writing. the report sets out the guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), currently 30 priority projects, inspired mainly by national interests, but also by the interests of multinationals, which will have some eur 5.3 billion of community co-financing. it is part of a vision of transeuropean transport networks in the light of the growth of the internal market and competition and capitalist concentration, and therefore insists on the need to integrate... the objectives of the lisbon strategy and argues that the ten-t should be adapted to changing market conditions, meet the following criteria: economic viability, improvement of competitiveness, promotion of the single market... and be developed on the basis of public-private partnerships (for example, by allocating a percentage of the revenue from road infrastructure tolls to the financing of ten-t projects). the majority of meps are not resisting, one month before the end of the current parliamentary term, the call on the european commission to propose by the end of its mandate a legislative initiative on the opening of national rail passenger transport markets from 1 january 2012. finally, in response to the interests of the major economic and financial groups in expanding their dominance in eastern europe, it emphasizes the priority of links between western and eastern europe.
in writing. − this report assesses the implementation of the 30 ten-t priority projects whose delays have important consequences for the future of sustainable european transport policy. despite the difficulties, it is essential to continue to invest in the changes needed to establish intermodal connections, with citizens and freight transport in mind. the various challenges of today, ranging from security to regional issues, social, economic and financial habits and the environment, must be taken into account. it would therefore be important to stress the need for an integrated and more coherent approach to the transport network. the importance of cross-border links is clear for the advancement of the european transport network, hence supporting better interconnection between all modes of transport and in particular those which have had the most difficulty in their transformation and development, such as rail or maritime transport. they must establish better links with ports and airports, and the proper implementation of the transeuropean networks projects will certainly contribute to this objective. the report reflects some of these concerns, but not all of the text reflects the order of priorities that i consider appropriate. that's why i voted against it.
mr president, i too would like to join in the congratulations already addressed to our rapporteur for his work, to the various political groups, to the commission, to our committee in the person of its president, and say that not only is the existence of blue bags absolutely unacceptable to us, but also that this so-called gentlemen's agreement, which will be 39 years old, has, in my opinion, no reason to exist today. we're not an amateur club today. no, i'm not going. we are a people's europe. we all have to answer to him. we in the european parliament, with the reforms we have just put into effect, are fully available from this next mandate to be fully responsible for the management of all our accounts. the council can do nothing else. it is absolutely regrettable that the council has not taken the opportunity afforded it to be here. that's exactly why we picked this time. and we would like to say that this is certainly not going to be the case and that we will do everything we can to hold the council to account for the way it implements its budget.
mr president, commissioner tajani, i would first like to congratulate mr teychenné on the quality of his report. on the maritime package to be signed tomorrow in an area where i was rapporteur for the socialist party on the obligations of the flag state and also on the responsibilities of passenger carriers, i said that in the european union people should come first and in this union passengers must also come first. the teychenné report deserves my full support because it strengthens the regulatory framework for both bus passengers and, in an area which is dear to me, for sea and inland waterway passengers, namely 25% of the ticket price in the case of delays of one to two hours, 50% of the ticket price in the case of delays of two hours or more or 100% if the carrier does not provide alternative transport or information services. i would remind you that these compensations are payable in the event of cancellation or serious delay of travel up to one month after the passenger's request. in the case of bus transport, this report recognises the need for additional measures for disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. for all passengers, the right to a refund of the current price in the event of cancellation, overcrowding or a serious delay of at least two hours of the journey becomes a reality. i have tabled an amendment, mr president, to the effect that this regulatory framework should also apply to the outermost regions. i am sure that legislation of this quality is the same, that it will not be questioned by anyone and will be appreciated by all european citizens, including those from the remotest regions such as the azores, madeira, the canary islands and the french overseas departments.
the joint discussion of the reports is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 23 april. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0227/2009). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 28 by sarah ludford (h-0142/09) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: electronic commerce and services what other measures will the commission take to ensure that the barriers imposed on consumers by virtue of their country of residence or the place of registration of their payment card, which prevent them from accessing the most competitive prices and a range of goods and services, such as music downloads, train and plane tickets, dvds, computer games - in particular those sold online - for sale anywhere in the eu, are completely removed?
question no 29 by mr claude moraes (h-0149/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu strategy to combat alzheimer's disease and the effects of the disease in february, the uk announced its national dementia strategy which will ensure investment in a network of memory clinics, improve support for people affected by the disease and launch wide-ranging public awareness campaigns. in addition, on 5 february parliament adopted in strasbourg written declaration 0080/2008 - p6_ta (2009) 0081 which encourages the recognition of alzheimer's disease as a european public health priority. what initiatives has the commission taken in this field in terms of research, prevention and public awareness? does the european commission envisage the possibility of creating a european strategy to combat alzheimer's disease similar to that of the united kingdom, taking into account in particular the recommendations of the european collaboration project on dementia already submitted to the commission?
question no 30 by mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0163/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: threat of recession in south-eastern europe and consequences for the european economy recent analyses by international financial institutions and credit rating agencies predict a significant economic slowdown in south-east europe, highlighting in particular the risk of default on loans by consumers and businesses. such a recession could have very serious consequences for the economies of the member states of the union, given the significant investments of western european companies and banks in the region. does the commission consider it appropriate to adopt measures to support banks in the countries of south-east europe, within the framework of the national action plans of the european neighbourhood policy, in collaboration with these countries and, where appropriate, with the european investment bank? how does the commission intend to use the possibilities of the available funding instruments, such as the pre-accession mechanism and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, to stimulate local economies and to avert the possibility of recession?
question no 31 by mr gay mitchell (h-0131/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: state aid to non-community countries in this period of economic turmoil it is imperative that all the nations of europe stand on an equal footing and do not have to worry about jobs going to non-community european countries which give state aid to companies in difficulty. if eec or efta member countries such as switzerland are to reap the benefits of increased trade with the eu bloc, then it is imperative that they respond by acting under the same state aid rules. the current procedures for dealing with this situation are slow and cumbersome and do not protect those who are currently losing their jobs. how does the commission intend to strengthen these aspects of competition law and ensure a rapid and efficient procedure for dealing with complaints?
question no 32 by mr zbigniew krzysztof kuzmiuk (h-0165/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: discrimination against polish shipyards in the light of the commission's endorsement of state aid to the automobile sector after having allocated several tens of thousands of euros to their banks, the governments of several member states of the european union have now decided to support the automotive sector. the united kingdom, germany, france and italy want to contribute to this economic sector with aid amounting to a few tens of thousands of euros, a proposal which the commission accepts in principle without restriction, although this method undoubtedly distorts competition in this market. without questioning this support, i would like to ask why the european commission has previously questioned the state aid granted by the polish government to our shipyards. the commission's position has led to the closure of two polish shipyards and the dismissal of several tens of thousands of workers employed and subcontracted by these yards. compared with the commission's recent endorsement of aid to the motor industry, is this decision not discriminatory?
question no 33 by giovanna corda (h-0171/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: online sales of perfumes, clothing and branded products commission regulation (ec) no 2790/1999 oj l 336, 29.12.1999 (and the guidelines on vertical restraints) lays down the rules on distribution agreements, covering in particular products such as perfumes, clothing and other 'brand name' products. under the scheme, it is prohibited to sell, in particular online, a large number of products where the market share of the supplier is less than 30%. does the commission consider that this archaic system should be maintained at the expense of healthy price competition and consumer choice and for the exclusive benefit of the economic interests of a few large groups whose revenues come for the most part from these comfortable, legal, exclusive rights?
question no 34 by georgios papastamkos (h-0172/09) subject: state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises can the commission state what additional measures, compatible with community state aid rules, are available in the member states in this crisis period to help small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular to support their access to finance?
question no 36 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0154/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: research and professions related to the sea marine science, technology and research are of fundamental importance for the sustainable development of marine-related activities and contribute to broadening the field of marine studies and deepening qualifications and competences related to the maritime professions. in this context, what action does the commission intend to take to promote research in this sector and to give european citizens more and better career prospects in sea-related activities? will the economic crisis affect this objective negatively?
question no 37 by mr emmanouil angelakas (h-0158/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: assessment of creativity, innovation and technological development in the member states given that 2009 is the european year of creativity and innovation and given the programmes available to the eu, namely the 7th framework programme for research and technological development (2007-2013) and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip), does the commission have statistical data on the funds absorbed so far in each member state by the sectors covered by the two programmes? what are the most popular sectors in percentage terms per member state? has the response of smes to these programmes (in percentage) been assessed?
question no 38 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0174/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: bonus - initiative 169 by the commission the bonus (network of marine science funding organisations in the baltic sea) project is of great importance for bringing together national and regional research programmes on sustainable development in the baltic sea region and for coordinating, developing and implementing them through joint cooperation activities. for this reason, lithuania and the other baltic sea states strongly support the transition from the era-net+ project to initiative 169. can the commission indicate the new measures planned for bonus - initiative 169? will the proposal be submitted during the term of office of the present commission? what are the possible interferences that hindered the transition from bonus to initiative 169?
question no 41 by marian harkin (h-0137/09) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: communication with citizens given the importance attached by the commission to effective communication with citizens, especially at a time of economic crisis when many citizens are fearful about the future, and given that the consultation process is an effective tool to give citizens the opportunity to directly influence the political process at the level of the european union, does the commission not consider that more needs to be done to inform citizens about the european union's consultations through the media and other forums at national, regional and local level in order to achieve the participation of more people and grassroots organisations?
question no 42 by mr david martin (h-0155/09) subject: the role and participation of the commission in the forthcoming european elections can the commission explain what impartial role it will play in order to increase participation levels in the european elections?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). the commission's question period is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
mr president, my colleagues roth-behrendt and sacconi have already presented our group's position very well. we therefore consider it essential to change the legal basis. health care, commissioner, is not a commodity. it is therefore incomprehensible that the commission has not included article 152 of the treaty. the requirement of prior authorisation for hospital and specialist patient protection care is also indispensable. only with the requirement of prior authorisation can safe and quality care be guaranteed. i would like to conclude by wishing my colleague john bowis well, and his case proves that crossborder services already work without this directive.
mr president, it is unacceptable that under the pretext of the application of patients' rights to health care, the european commission and the majority of parliament actually want to call into question the national and public health service, as is the case in portugal. by seeking approval of this proposal on the basis of article 95 of the treaty on european union, which provides for harmonization in relation to the internal market, it seeks to liberalize the sector, which is unacceptable. this is a sector where the logic of the market and profit must not prevail in order to serve the interests of economic and financial groups. health can't be a business. that is why we are proposing to reject this proposal from the european commission. to ensure crossborder healthcare, there are already regulations and agreements that can be improved without compromising the competences and rights of the member states in relation to the ownership and management of their national health service, which we believe should be public and universal, accessible to all.
in writing. - this proposal clarifies the rules for being a road haulage operator. the new rules are presented with the aim of increasing the safety and excellence of this business and ensuring common criteria for the financial management of these companies. the requirement to have a trained manager responsible for managing the company's traffic, as well as to demonstrate its financial health, are signs of this new way of looking at the activity. other important elements of this text are the points concerning the protection of personal data, the creation of a register with a public and a confidential section, and the termination of so-called post office box companies. the conditions for access to the profession, namely reputation, financial health and professional capacity, correspond to a clarification of this business, which we hope will allow it to prosper in a more transparent way, ensuring better protection and safety for customers.
in writing. − prices and reliability of energy supply are critical factors for the eu's competitiveness, and increasing energy efficiency is one of the most cost-effective ways for the eu to meet its co2 emission targets, create jobs, reduce business burdens, address the social impacts of energy price increases and reduce its growing dependence on energy from abroad. the energy performance of buildings currently accounts for about 40% of energy consumption and the recast of the directive will improve the current situation. all relevant stakeholders should be informed of the benefits of energy performance improvement and should have access to relevant information on how to proceed. it is therefore important that financial instruments supporting the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings are accessible to local and regional authorities.
in writing. - the report by mr albertini seeks to contribute to creating the conditions for a clearer picture of the use and operation of bus transport. by addressing issues relating to the rights of persons with reduced mobility and by establishing clearer rules in the event of death or accident of passengers or in the event of loss or damage to luggage, this report is working towards greater safety for passengers and businesses alike. the commission is also proposing solutions for compensation and assistance in the event of cancellation, delay or interruption of travel. this will create the conditions for better information for passengers before, during and after the journey and clarify their rights and the responsibilities of operators, with the aim of making them more competitive and safer.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the brian crowley report on the term of protection of copyright and related rights because it promotes european artists and european music. the european parliament's proposal introduces greater benefits for artists, who are protected throughout their lives, similar to what happens in the usa and in accordance with the european principles of valuing creativity and culture. i think that extending the term of protection from 50 to 70 years will promote investment in musical innovation and result in more choice for the consumer, allowing europe to continue to compete competitively with the world's largest music markets.
in writing. - portuguese music industry officials consider this to be a matter of great importance for the european and portuguese music industry. they also stress that the commission's proposal to extend the term of protection of recorded works for artists and record producers meets a need if europe is to remain competitive with the world's largest music markets. the support of creators and performers is evident when almost 40 000 artists and musicians signed a petition calling on the european union to close the gap with other countries that already provide for a longer term of protection. the extension of the term of protection is expected to promote reinvestment in a very wide variety of new music resulting in greater choice for the consumer. it should also be noted that the recording industry is a major contributor in terms of employment and tax revenue and is a major exporter of intellectual property. for these reasons, which were mentioned by those responsible, i voted in favour of the compromise text voted on today. this approval will enable a consensus to be reached between the council and parliament and will facilitate the adoption of the directive by the council.
in writing. the establishment of the second marco polo programme is a major step forward, as it provides the necessary financial assistance for measures to increase and improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system. the proposal follows the evaluation of the effectiveness of the marco polo programme itself, which concluded that, so far, only 64% of the modal shift target has been achieved - far short of the estimated targets. the new marco polo is expected to have better financial conditions to pursue its objectives, which now also include projects relating to motorways of the sea and projects relating to measures to avoid traffic congestion. i believe that this programme, which seeks to stimulate and support projects for the shift from road freight to sea, rail and inland waterway transport, should have all the conditions to help reduce congestion, pollution and transport which is more efficient and environmentally sustainable.
in writing. the creation of a genuine internal rail market is of the utmost importance for the objectives of a sustainable european transport policy. that is to say, for the future of europe and its transport. it is also important that this sector is an integral part of the measures that will contribute to the success of the lisbon strategy. rail freight is also a very important factor among the various transport work areas. the creation of a european rail freight network with trains running in good condition and crossing easily from one national network to another will hopefully allow for improvements in the use of infrastructure and facilitate more competitive freight. i think it is essential to support measures to improve the situation of the rail freight sector, with a view to its being fully integrated and integrated into the whole of the future european transport network.
in writing. - the serious issue is that the report was adopted without changing the basis of article 95, namely the consideration of health in the internal market as a commodity, which is unacceptable. it would therefore have been better to reject the commission's proposal, as we have argued. but, unfortunately, most of them did not accept our position. patients' rights in cross-border healthcare do not therefore safeguard the exclusive competence of member states to decide how to organise and finance their healthcare systems, including their competence to set up prior authorisation systems for the purpose of hospital treatment abroad. the right of citizens to health, as well as the rights of professionals in the sector, are not guaranteed. the need was for greater solidarity and coordination between social security systems in the different member states of the european union, particularly with a view to implementing, strengthening and responding more adequately to the rights and needs of users of health services. for all these reasons, we voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on patient safety. although the quality of healthcare in europe has improved substantially due to the development of medical science, medical acts may in some cases cause harm to the health of patients. medical errors or infections caused by treatment are some of the causes of undesirable effects that could be avoided. the report makes important proposals: improving information collection at local and regional level; better information for patients; increasing the presence of nurses specialised in infection control; promoting education and training for health personnel; paying more attention to hospital infections. measures that i fully support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on rare diseases, as i consider that concerted action in the field of rare diseases is necessary at european and national level. although the incidence of each rare disease is very low, there are always millions of europeans affected because there are many rare diseases. i think it is of the utmost importance to support independent organisations, to provide access to information on rare diseases, to set up specialised centres in the different member states, to set up training courses in existing centres and to mobilise experts and professionals. the creation of adequate resources for immediate action in the area of rare diseases is necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation, as i consider that deforestation causes very serious environmental damage which is difficult to correct, such as the imbalance of water resources, desertification, impact on the climate and the disappearance of biodiversity. there is a need to ensure greater coherence between forest conservation and sustainable management policies, as well as the internal and external policies of the european union, and therefore an assessment of the impact on forests of the european union's energy (especially biofuels), agricultural and trade policies is needed. i also think that financial support for developing countries to stop tropical deforestation is of the utmost importance. reducing deforestation will play a very important role in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
in writing. - the current rapid growth of cities, together with the concentration of european populations in urban centres, are the data that this european parliament report seeks to analyse, trying to contribute to the much that needs to be done in this field. in the light of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, proposals have been put forward which i consider to be important. the most important points in this parliament's position are the warning about the dispersion of measures which may suffer from inconsistency, not only as a legislative body but above all in the field of implementation. i agree with the need for a coherent approach, taking into account the incentive to optimise the various modes of transport in urban centres through better planning. i also support the continuation of research and innovation in this specific field and the commission's collaboration with the member states, contributing to the exchange of information on good practice in the various countries. finally, i would like to stress the importance of european industry in developing technologies that can improve the management, safety and energy efficiency of urban transport for european cities.
mr president, the g20 was important above all because it created a space for multilateral dialogue and made it clear that without multilateralism the crisis cannot be solved. but it is a starting point, not an end point, and the role of the european union must be strengthened, it must be clear and it must be mobilizing. at the moment we have no indication that this is happening. we have a very important script, the larosière report, but the commission has been slow to implement it, has been slow to react. look at the reaction to hedge funds, for example. and yet the real economy in europe is still showing no signs of recovery, and the policy that has been followed of waiting to see means waiting for worse numbers, for a situation that is getting worse every day. look at the latest estimates from the international monetary fund and the oecd: 27 million people out of work. this is a huge problem. the commission also owes this parliament an explanation of what it intends to do, what is actually in the field of its initiative and what is the concrete state of play in the policy of coordinating the initiatives of the member states. but we must not wait any longer. the political will to act must be there now.
i have received a motion for a resolution. see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 24 april. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by angelika beer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the non-proliferation of weapons and the future of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) [2008/2324 (ini) ] (a6-0234/2009) follows.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs beer on an excellent and timely report. this is the year of all nuclear debates. the us is preparing its nuclear posture review, nato is reviewing its strategic concept and the world is getting ready for the 2010 npt review conference. all of this is happening in a special context. the us is once again being led by a president, barack obama, who espouses the vision of a world without nuclear weapons. this is not the time for timidity or hesitation. our voters would not understand if this parliament prepared a report on the npt which was less ambitious than that of the current us administration. of course, us leadership on this issue is welcome. after all, the us and russia are the undisputed global nuclear hegemons. however, europe cannot sit passively by while moscow and washington discuss its strategic future. we need to present our own npt narrative, based on a strict balance between the non-proliferation and disarmament agendas. this is what this report is all about and this is the spirit of the socialist plenary amendments. why not support the model nuclear weapons convention and the hiroshima-nagasaki protocol, both of which are promoted globally by civil organisations and political leaders? it is our role as parliamentarians, unencumbered by the weight and limitations of executive power, to show our governments, and therefore the council, the way in this field. i hope the house can support the pse amendments.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for this debate. as i mentioned at the beginning of this debate, a watershed moment has begun in the existence of the npt and the arms control process. i'd like to thank all of you who spoke for your comments. i would like to express my unequivocal agreement with the support for verifiable, concrete and realistic steps in this area, as expressed by mr zieleniec, and also to endorse the statement by mr onyszkiewicze, who said that disarmament is a slow process and that it is all the more important to support those very realistic steps. at the same time, i agree with the need to draw attention to the misuse of a possible peace programme for the production of fissile materials, as pointed out by mrs harms, and also with the need to take a firm stance against those countries which misuse a peace programme for potential armaments, and i agree with mr claeys on this point. i would also like to emphasise that the european union will continue to participate in the review of the npt and will actively contribute to the success of the whole process. the union will present concrete proposals for the future action plan for the 2010 evaluation conference under all three pillars of the treaty to the forthcoming preparatory committee in new york in may. we will present our proposals in the form of joint declarations on the individual pillars and in the form of working papers. in preparation for the 2010 review conference, the council intends to develop a revised and updated common position. the european union will seek a successful outcome and will work together with key partners to ensure broad support for our objectives ahead of the preparatory committee meeting. new opportunities in the field of nuclear disarmament must also be seized, and the european union is determined not to remain a passive spectator. the european union is made up of the member states which have nuclear weapons, the member states which do not, the member states which use nuclear energy and the member states which oppose its use. as a whole, it can and is determined to play a significant role. the council is committed to informing the european parliament regularly of future developments, both as regards the outcome of the preparatory committee's deliberations and more generally in the context of preparations for the conference to be held next year.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in today’s constructive debate. this is indeed a subject of great significance. for our part, the commission will continue its work in support of the npt treaty through our work in verifying the proper use of fissile nuclear materials under the euratom treaty. it works to thwart attempts by terrorists to gain access to chemical, radiological and nuclear materials, through a strengthened community regime of export controls on dual use, support for the efforts of the iaea to secure vulnerable nuclear materials and tackle nuclear smuggling – which is very important – and the promotion of a worldwide nuclear security and safety culture using the substantial resources available under the stability and nuclear safety instruments. i look forward to continued cooperation with parliament in taking these objectives further and i count on our cooperation in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 24 april. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. although it contains aspects which we consider to be positive, the present proposal for a european parliament recommendation falls short of the requirements that must be met in the field of nuclear disarmament, particularly when it focuses solely on non-proliferation. what is needed and required is the implementation of a whole programme prohibiting the use and production of nuclear weapons, promoting their total and complete dismantling, the creation of zones free of these weapons, the relaunch of negotiations on nuclear disarmament and the strict application of the non-proliferation treaty, including by the current nuclear powers. a programme of nuclear disarmament, necessarily accompanied by the demilitarisation of international relations, respect for the united nations charter, the end of colonialism, the principles of non-interference and the peaceful settlement of international conflicts. a programme which calls for the non-militarisation of space; the reduction of conventional armaments and military expenditure (and not their increase, as the us administration defended at the recent nato summit); the end of foreign military bases; the rejection of the militarisation of the eu and its transformation into a political-military bloc; the non-overlapping of nato and the un in security matters and the dissolution of political-military blocs.
the following is the joint debate on - the council declaration on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, - the report by mrs rumiana jeleva, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (com (2008) 0530 - c6-0116/2009 - 2008/0170 (cns)) (a6-0229/2009), and - the report by mrs rumiana jeleva, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the optional protocol to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (com (2008) 0530 - c6-0117/2009 - c171/2009 (cns)) (a6-0230/2009).
i also welcome the fact that we are here today to debate and approve the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and at the same time to call for the optional protocol to be taken into account by the various member states. an important part has therefore been played in defending and promoting the rights of disabled people with a view to respecting their dignity. but it is not enough that countries have signed the convention or even that they are prepared to take account of its optional protocol. they must now ratify this convention in their countries and prepare to apply the convention and the protocol as soon as possible.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 24 april.
author. − mr president, gender responsiveness is a measure of good governance anywhere in the world, but even more so in afghanistan after the suffering endured by women for decades there. there cannot be true peace and recovery in afghanistan without priority being given to respecting the human rights of women. this shia family law allows marital rape, approves child marriage and bans wives from stepping outside their homes without their husbands’ permission. women’s human rights and dignity cannot fall victim to pre-electoral negotiations with islamic fundamentalists. the international community present in afghanistan must put much more pressure on president karzai and the afghan authorities to come up with proper laws which respect the human rights of women, and policies that are committed to enacting those rights and respect their dignity. like the shia family law, the delaying of the afghan media law, which was passed by the afghan parliament months ago by two thirds of the parliament, is a tool by president karzai to continue control of the state media, vital propaganda ahead of the presidential elections. the international community cannot allow this to go on. this law is fundamental to ensure that there is freedom of expression and of the media in afghanistan. without that, anything that we are doing in afghanistan is not worth it. it is crucial that action is taken on these two laws and that the international community makes sure that the authorities in afghanistan abide by their commitments, by their words, in terms of human rights, and respect in particular the rights of women.
author. − mr president, some in this chamber want to present the people’s mujahedin as heroes or a true alternative to the iranian regime. they are neither. in my trips to iraq, i have heard kurdish, sunni, shia, christian, turkman leaders and others complain about the role of the people’s mujahedin as a tool of saddam hussein in the 1988 anfar campaign, which culminated in massacres such as halabja. that is what the iraqi delegation which was here this week also confirmed to us, while assuring us that the iraqi constitution binds the government of iraq to fully respect the human rights of the residents of camp ashraf, who, with the help of unhcr and icrc, wish to leave for iran or any other destination, or wish to stay as political refugees abiding by the laws of iraq. we must understand the reluctance of the iraqi government to let camp ashraf continue to be a nuisance to their good neighbourly relations with iran. for iraqis, iran cannot be wished away. it is there. it is a powerful neighbour. it is true that the people’s mujahedin are no longer on the terrorist list, but they are still an opaque cult which brutalises those of its members who wish to defect. above all, the people in camp ashraf are human beings whose human rights have to be respected, irrespective of the fate of the organisation itself or of its past. they are to be treated under the 1951 refugee convention and no one – i repeat, no one – should be forced to return to iran. but let us make one thing clear. this resolution is not about the iranian regime, which has been repressing its people, mismanaging the country and destabilising the middle east for decades. anyone who presents a vote for the pse and green amendments, which aim to balance the tone of this resolution, as a vote for the iranian regime, is either arguing in bad faith or has simply run out of arguments. the spirit of our amendments is quite simple. we want to present the whole picture of human rights violations and threats in and around camp ashraf. for example, we request that all camp ashraf residents be allowed to be interviewed by the icrc and unhcr at a neutral location and without people’s mujahedin officials in attendance, in order to clarify their real wishes. also we must call on the mujahedin leadership to stop controlling the lives of the residents of camp ashraf, namely by not letting them leave the camp. above all, we express our concern about the reported practices of mental and physical manipulation and severe human rights violations within the cult. in short, this is about the individual human rights of the people in camp ashraf. let us have these people and their human rights in mind when we vote.
mr president, i too would like to call for a vote on this joint resolution as it stands. the amendments which have been tabled are deeply misleading. it is absolutely false that there is one, one refugee from camp ashraf who has been transferred from the alternative camp to europe or even inside iraq with the support of the high commissioner. i defy anyone to ask the high commissioner if ever one was transferred. all of this is mere falsehood with the sole purpose of facilitating a massacre. that is what it is all about, and i would ask the authors of this, which is absolutely shameful, to withdraw these amendments, which are an insult to this parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on women's rights in afghanistan because i consider the new draft law on the personal status of shiite women unacceptable. the legislation, recently passed by both houses of the afghan parliament, imposes severe restrictions on women's freedom of movement, legitimises marital rape and promotes discrimination against women in the areas of marriage, divorce, inheritance and access to education, which is not in line with international human rights standards in general, nor with women's rights. i think that the european union should send a clear signal that this bill must be annulled, since its content is contrary to the principle of equality between men and women, as enshrined in international conventions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution in support of the special court for sierra leone, as it is important to ensure that the perpetrators of violent crimes in the light of international humanitarian law, that is to say war crimes and crimes against humanity, are punished and serve their sentences. created in 2000 by the united nations and the government of sierra leone, this was the first international tribunal to be funded through voluntary contributions, the first to be established in a country where these crimes allegedly occurred, and the first to indict an african head of state for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
in writing. - the residents of ashraf are one of the visible faces of the iranian regime's oppression and resistance to that violence. the association that has been repeatedly attempted between the iranian resistance and terrorism is, as far as newspapers, politicians and courts have been able to ascertain, unjustified. on the contrary, the situation in ashraf is public knowledge and several people, including members of parliament and journalists, have visited the camp and drawn their conclusions. the residents of ashraf are protected persons under the geneva convention. for these reasons, the signal given by the european parliament is of the greatest importance: the residents of ashraf have the right to be protected and not to be handed over to the iranian regime under any circumstances. it is a matter of basic respect for human rights. we therefore hope that this resolution will have consequences. finally, a note on the iranian regime. the mistakes made at the beginning and during the intervention of the countries allied with the united states in iraq must not now be added to the mistakes made in the withdrawal. if, at the end of this process, the fundamentalist iranian regime has strengthened its influence in the region, in particular by influencing iraq's internal affairs, that region will have been further away from peace and the world more threatened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rumiana jeleva report on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, whose powers will be shared for the first time by the community and its member states, as it advocates respect for individual dignity and autonomy and promotes non-discrimination, inclusion in society and acceptance of people with disabilities as part of human diversity.
in writing. - profiling is already used today in numerous areas ranging from law enforcement, administrative and customs border controls, and the fight against terrorism itself. there is increasing interest in using this research technique, which is based on the collection of information about individuals from various sources, and may include more sensitive data such as ethnic origin, race, nationality or religion. however, the use of these techniques has evolved considerably without having had the opportunity to discuss and come to a conclusion as to how and when they can be used, when their use can be considered legitimately necessary and proportionate. as is clear, the necessary safeguards must be put in place to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. this situation is all the more worrying if we consider that there should be data interchange between the various data systems, as is the case with sis ii, vis and eurodac. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sarah ludford, for her initiative and for the opportunity which she has given us to start this debate on the basis of this report, which i consider to be quite balanced and which respects the commitments negotiated between us.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i think this report will complement other existing initiatives on pesticides, agreed at the end of last year. this report introduces a number of important changes, such as changing the wording of plant protection products to pesticides, broadening the scope to include biocidal products and including pesticides for commercial non-agricultural uses. with this regulation the european union will ensure a much safer use of pesticides.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on the ecodesign of energy-related products, as current consumption patterns have a very significant environmental impact, particularly with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and pollution. i think it is important to change consumption and production habits without incurring significant additional costs for both firms and households.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the harmonized conditions for the marketing of construction products in order to promote better circulation and use of such products. the use of a common technical language to express the performance of construction products clarifies and simplifies the conditions for access to the ce marking, ensuring a higher level of safety for users.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the schnellhardt report on the regulation laying down health rules for animal by-products not intended for human consumption, as i consider that the proposals contained in this document constitute a substantial improvement in the safety of these products, in particular by ensuring traceability throughout the treatment process. food safety and consumer protection in the eu are thus strengthened.
in writing. parliament resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. i voted in favour of the report on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest, because it strengthens the principles of transparency and tax justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on nanomaterials, as nanotechnologies enable extraordinary results, particularly in the field of energy and the development of biomedicine. however, i think it is important to ensure the safety of products before they are marketed, given that nanotechnologies involve risks that are not yet well defined.
in writing. − the g20 summit and the awareness of the need for a coordinated and cooperative response to the current world economic situation is an expression of the positive aspects of globalisation. there are no longer any isolated powers, autonomous economies or globalised countries to be dispensed with. on the contrary, those countries that are far worse off than these victims of the crisis, but that have not joined globalization, as most african countries have, still have their problems and remain outside the solution. that is the problem that is not being addressed. the other lesson of these times is that the only alternative to a market economy is a market economy that works better. that's the way to go. finally, it should be stressed that the capacity to respond to the crisis depends very much on whether or not there has been capacity to reform national economies and to create conditions for flexibility. in addition to responding to the financial crisis, we must respond to the transformation of the world economic paradigm. otherwise we will be faced with a profound but temporary crisis without resolving the structural inadequacy of our economies.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing the agenda for a debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy, in view of the presentation by the european commission on 22 april of the green paper on the reform of this important common policy and in view of the profound implications for this strategic sector and for fishermen of some of the proposals contained therein, and in view of the fact that the committee on fisheries has already tabled a proposal for the agenda, given the political importance and timeliness of this debate, on which this plenary session is the last opportunity for the present parliament to give its opinion.
the catch the eye period is over. before i give the floor to the commissioner, i would also like to thank her for her opening statement and, in advance, thank her for the set of information she will give us next on a very important and topical subject, which shows that both the european union and the member states are looking at this situation in a very positive way and very closely at the citizens.
the debate is closed.
the joint debate on the reports of astrid lulling, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing directive 86/613/eec (com (2008) 0636 - c6-0341/2008 - 2008/0192 (cod)) (a6-0258/2009) and edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 92/85/eec on the implementation of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding (com (2008) 0637 - c6-0403/2008 - 2008/0319 (cod)) (a6-0267/2009) will follow.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for the opinions of the committee on employment and the committee on legal affairs, the secretariats of the committee on women's rights and the pse group, the social partners, the ngos, the experts who took part in the public hearings in brussels and lisbon, the representatives of the commission and the council and my assistants. i appreciate all of your support and suggestions. the proposals in my report are therefore the result of a very participatory process and many working meetings with all those interested in providing the european union with a maternity leave directive appropriate to our times. the main objectives of my amendments are: firstly, to strengthen the rights of working women during pregnancy, after childbirth and during breastfeeding; secondly, to promote the reconciliation of work, family and private life; and thirdly, to help europeans to have the children they want and thus increase the birth rate. i therefore propose extending the protection against dismissal to 12 months, exempting women from night work and overtime if they so wish, and reducing breastfeeding time by two hours a day without any loss of rights. but the most innovative proposal in relation to the european commission's proposal concerns paternity leave - community legislation should enshrine the principle of shared leave in order to facilitate a more equitable sharing of private and family responsibilities between men and women and thus promote the quality of life and well-being of children. parents should be associated with family responsibilities from the birth or adoption of a child. it is also necessary to combat the economic, social and cultural prejudices associated with the right to paternity leave and to change attitudes. while, for example, in sweden, a man who does not share parental leave is regarded by society as a bad father, in the countries of southern europe the opposite is true: fathers are coerced by employers and coworkers to not take the leave to which they are legally entitled. so i propose that two weeks of paternity leave be mandatory, non-transferable, 100% paid and without loss of any professional rights. it is well established that the sharing of family responsibilities between men and women is the first step towards the indispensable reconciliation of family and professional life. women have the same right to work as men, but they cannot work as much outside the home as men and three times as much inside the home. family life is one of the reasons why there are more women unemployed than men. on the other hand, it is common in admissions surveys to ask candidates whether they plan to marry or have children. women see their personal lives ravaged and end up being harmed if they manifest the natural desire to be mothers. maternity cannot be seen as a problem for employers, for the economy. on the contrary, it is a service to society, as it allows the low birth rate and the ageing population to be tackled while ensuring the sustainability of the social security system. so it is unacceptable that women should be penalized for being mothers. but the truth is that they often don't advance in their careers, they don't get the usual productivity or profit-sharing bonuses, and they have to submit to the most insignificant and least rewarding tasks professionally. we must change this situation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. − the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health. ladies and gentlemen, women are often faced with the choice between professional and family life, especially in the matter of motherhood, which ultimately hinders their physical and mental health and their ability to complete themselves as persons. we must also ensure that women's rights and protection are not restricted in accordance with the european social model, and we would like to include parental leave in this framework, which, as we have seen, was not the commission's choice. commissioner, someone who is 18 weeks away from the workplace needs special training to get back to work so as to ensure the continuity of his legitimate career prospects and not suffer a double penalty in his working life. we must ensure that this is the case: providing job protection for 12 months is essential to ensure the ability to reorganize domestic life as one returns to work, to training and to new rhythms. the change from six to twelve months is therefore common sense. it is crucial that legislation on the rights of selfemployed women is enacted in each member state, and to do so is a clear political signal on which we would like to hear the commission's reaction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this line is more consistent with the european social model we are striving for, and this is not just a women's issue, it is a social issue.
i would like to refer to the report by mrs edite estrela on the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant workers, which is a small step in the protection of motherhood and fatherhood, which are fundamental values and rights of our society. on behalf of my group, the european united left/nordic green left, i have advocated greater progress in the defence of maternity and paternity, in particular 22 months of 100% paid leave. in the report, only 20 months are enshrined, and not all the time you have a 100% guarantee of remuneration. i do not understand the position of the epp, which does not want to accept this either. this small step, which is envisaged in the report, must be approved here in the promotion of the rights of women, children and families. it is not enough to say that we stand for these rights. we need to approve small steps in this promotion and in this defence.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i am shocked by the european commission's position on my proposal for paternity leave. it is a conservative position, out of touch with reality and unacceptable. i did not say, commissioner, that parental leave was necessary, but that it was necessary to take paternity leave. if paternity leave is not covered by this directive, why did the commission propose to extend the legal base, and not just article 137 on health protection? why did you introduce article 141 of the treaty on the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women? commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the ppe, motherhood and fatherhood are important social values which must be respected and which must be associated. this is where the link is made, this directive links paternity leave with maternity leave. and you're thinking of the children, commissioner. it's thinking about the best interests of children, because if they have the support of their parents from an early age, they have a healthier psychological and physical growth. and you are also aware, commissioner, that paternity leave is provided for in the national legislation of many member states. does the commission intend to fall short of the reality, of what already exists in the member states? i am very surprised, commissioner, at these positions. that is why, because there is this lag between the european institutions and reality, the citizens are moving away. that's why the abstention rate is high. we must give the citizens a reason to go to the polls, and what is at stake, commissioner, is to pass legislation that serves the citizens. if citizens realise that the decisions taken in the european parliament improve their lives, they will certainly have more reason to go to the polls next june.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, we welcomed the failure of the european parliament and the council to agree on a change in the directive on the organization of working time, because what was at stake was to make worse what exists today, both in terms of the average working day and the length of stay. what the european commission and the council wanted was to open the way to a further devaluation of work, an attack on the right of trade unions to negotiate and collective bargaining, by accepting simple administrative provisions to regulate the organization of working time and its payment, calling into question the right to stay and the right to breaks, in a 100-year retreat in labour rights. the obligation to pay in full for all hours of work, including breaks, whether in the health and emergency services, the fire service or any other sector of activity, remains in force, in accordance with the existing case law. we will continue to give voice to the workers' struggle against the notorious opt-out and for the value of work, in defending the shortening of the working day without loss of pay as an important condition in times of recession for job creation and reducing unemployment, in promoting the health and safety of workers and the reconciliation of work and family life. we want a real social europe which will not be forgotten after the european parliament elections.
two issues were highlighted in this negotiation: the so-called length of stay and the opt-out clause. as regards the length of stay, i would say that we were very close to a compromise, but in the final part the council inexplicably backed down. as for opt-outs, parliament could never accept their indefinite generalization, because in practical terms this would mean, quite simply, deregulation of the labour market. if there are 15 countries today which use the opt-out, it is because the level of permanence is inadequate to the reality. the residence scheme is not appropriate to the present situation, especially in the field of health. in parliament's proposal this was solved, and it would not be necessary for so many countries to opt out. this was acknowledged by the presidency during the negotiations. let me be clear, opt-out has nothing to do with flexibility. flexibility is fully achieved through the annualization of the reference period, which was proposed by parliament as early as 2005. parliament has always fought in this process so that we could at least have a glimpse of a future date for the end of the opt-out. but a blocking minority in the council not only accepted this, but wanted to make the application of opt-outs the rule rather than the exception. and i want to remind you that the opt-out was accepted in 1993, but as a clear exception. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. science and labour law exist in europe because it has long been accepted that one party is at a disadvantage and therefore must be protected. the council's blocking minority, with the rigidity it has shown, wanted to do away with this protection, which is totally unacceptable to me for those who defend the fundamental values which are at the basis of the european social model.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the use of animals for scientific purposes is a relatively sensitive subject which confronts us with controversial and irreconcilable sentiments if we look at it from a one-sided point of view. it is not possible to discuss this issue from the standpoint of defending the interests of animal rights alone, nor to do so from the standpoint of the interests of science alone or from the standpoint of obtaining results at the lowest possible cost. no one is indifferent to the suffering of other living beings, and even less so when it comes to animals as close to us as primates. but our sensitivity is even higher when we are faced with the suffering of human beings caused by accident, war or disease. to combat pain we cannot deny science the tools it needs, including the use of guinea pigs. this report reflects the balance that can be struck between the contradiction of values and feelings we are facing and reveals an effort at compromise which only ennobles parliament and the members who have been most committed to it. i therefore congratulate those with whom i have had the closest contact in this debate, the rapporteur neil parish and the shadow rapporteur for the pes, roselyne lefrançois, for their excellent work and for the consensus they have managed to establish on a subject as difficult as it is controversial. my group, the pse, will therefore vote in favour of this report and the amendments which we intend to make to improve it further, confident that in this way we will be contributing to reducing animal suffering without compromising scientific progress in favour of human health and the viability of european research.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the marketing of poultrymeat for human consumption, even after antimicrobial treatment, is not acceptable. i would therefore like to thank everyone who has worked with me on this report, including my colleagues and the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we hope that the european commission and the council will take account of this report and the opinion of the european parliament in defending public health, food safety and poultry producers in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on the marketing of poultrymeat. the proposal aims to update the rules on the marketing of poultrymeat which have been in force since 1990 and adapt them to the new market situation. it also aims to safeguard the stability of market prices in this sector, to facilitate the marketing of products and to ensure consumer safety and high quality standards for food products. i think that the treatment of poultrymeat with decontaminating substances is unacceptable and that is why i have advocated cold treatment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the recovery of petrol vapours. gasoline contains volatile organic compounds (vocs) that evaporate inside the fuel tank, filling the empty space above the fuel. when a vehicle is refuelled, the vapors are pushed out of the tank by the incoming fuel and, if not captured, escape into the atmosphere. the commission proposal aims to recover the gasoline vapours which are emitted into the atmosphere during the refuelling of passenger cars. the implementation of gasoline vapour recovery systems at service stations with high capture efficiency is of great importance for improving air quality.
in writing. - transparency is a fundamental principle of the eu. decisions should be taken as openly and as closely as possible to the citizen, thereby giving the institutions greater legitimacy in the eyes of european citizens, while contributing to an increase in trust. the regulation adopted in 2001 was undoubtedly a significant step in this direction, but several amendments appear to be necessary and should contribute to making the european decisionmaking process more understandable, to increasing the level of transparency and to improving the institutions' practices. the present initiative therefore aims to introduce these improvements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to refer this initiative back to the libe committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal on the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile road transport activities, as i consider it unacceptable and discriminatory that this proposal excludes selfemployed road transport workers. all persons engaged in mobile road transport activities should be protected by community rules limiting the number of hours of work per week. the aim is therefore to ensure the protection of the health and safety of these workers and road safety.
in writing. - it was very important that the majority of the european parliament had approved the proposal which we support to reject this proposal for a directive which the european commission had put forward on the organization of working time for persons engaged in mobile road transport activities. the proposal for a directive was a step back from the existing system, both as regards selfemployed workers and those who are not selfemployed, and as regards current working hours, particularly at night. i had already tabled this proposal in the committee on employment and social affairs, and it had received the majority vote in favour. but the rapporteur (epp) insisted on bringing the report to the plenary, persisting in the attack on essential workers' rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
in writing. - we welcome the rejection of the proposal by the european commission, chaired by mr barroso, to exclude so-called self-employed road workers from the directive on the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile road transport activities, as a result of the rejection proposal we have tabled. in fact, in the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament last february we had already tabled a proposal calling for the rejection of this unacceptable initiative by the european commission. this is the best response to a new attempt to intensify competition and exploitation of road workers, by jeopardizing their labour rights and road safety. what is required is the defence and improvement of the rights and working conditions of road workers, combating precariousness, respecting periods of rest, rest or stay without prejudice to their wages and the labour legislation or collective agreements in force in each member state. it is necessary that the rules on working time, driving and rest periods apply equally to all professional drivers, including self-employed drivers, in order to ensure their safety and road safety, avoiding excessively long working hours and rest periods or inappropriate working standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on trade in seal products, since it is based on two assumptions: the prohibition in the european union of trade in certain seal products and respect for the traditions and cultures of the indigenous peoples of the arctic. some 900 000 seals are killed annually in large-scale commercial hunting (this figure does not take into account the number of seals that are caught but not recovered or the number of unreported killings), 60% of which occur in canada, greenland and namibia. norway and russia are the other countries engaged in large-scale commercial hunting of these animals. in the community, sweden, finland and the united kingdom (scotland) hunt seals on a small scale, mainly for fish stock management and pest control purposes. i think this agreement will protect the seals from cruelty and at the same time it will protect the culture of the inuit communities. i also think that this regulation ensures that unscrupulous trade will end and that harmonized rules will be created that will change the whole internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. this proposal covers the protection of animals used for scientific purposes relating to human or animal health or animal welfare. every year in the eu, approximately 12 million animals are used for scientific purposes, including 12 000 non-human primates. the directive provides for the obligation to carry out ethical tests and to subject experiments involving the use of animals to authorization. the proposal also includes certain invertebrate species and foetuses in their last trimester of development, as well as larvae and other animals used in basic research, education and vocational training. i therefore believe that the proposal is aimed at better protecting animals used in experiments and at strengthening animal welfare rules in the face of developments in scientific research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on pollution from ships, as i believe it is essential to combat a continuing practice in maritime transport, namely the illegal discharge of pollutants into the sea by certain ships. i think that this amendment is absolutely necessary to prevent environmental disasters and the deterioration of water quality by means of penal sanctions which are sufficiently severe to deter potential polluters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive on the indication of energy consumption by means of labelling. environmental issues, and in particular energy efficiency, are of great importance and are fundamental to combating climate change. the aim of the recast directive is to enable the labelling of all energy-related products, including those in the domestic, commercial and industrial sectors. given the urgent need to combat climate change and the european union's commitment to achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020, i believe that simple, clear and easily recognisable labelling can influence consumers to make more informed decisions and contribute to the promotion of more energy-efficient products.
the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do so. we must not ignore the responsibilities of the leaders of the european union and of all those who have put the defence of production and social and labour rights on the back burner in order to give priority to the liberalism of the lisbon strategy, to the irrational criteria of the stability pact, to the guidelines of the european central bank, with its false autonomy which has in fact always served only the interests of economic and financial groups. the current forecasts of the european commission, which point to a fall in gdp of 4% this year and to stabilization only in 2010, accompanied by a loss of 8.5 million jobs in these two years, predicting that the unemployment rate will reach about 11%, is very serious and demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the measures taken so far. who can remain indifferent to this exponential growth in unemployment, which may reach 30 million unemployed in the european union? the community must therefore make an urgent break with the neoliberal policies which have aggravated the crisis of capitalism. the creation of jobs with rights, the defence of community production, the improvement of public services and the fair distribution of income to reduce poverty must be given priority. it is urgent that economic and social cohesion should no longer be a mere phrase without a clear content and that the principle of 'save whoever can' should be maintained. a supplementary community budget is needed to ensure solidarity and to increase levels and support for the most affected populations and the most fragile economies. to create jobs with rights for young people, women and the unemployed, to increase the purchasing power of the population, to boost demand and to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. instead of continuing to insist on the draft treaty of lisbon, what is needed is to respect the sovereign decision of the irish people. instead of continuing to insist on giving priority to the financial sector, what is needed is to end tax havens and give priority to the productive sectors of the european union, ending the stability pact and replacing it with a pact for development and social progress. instead of continuing to liberalize regulations and flexibility in employment, we must focus on public investment, which will boost the productive sectors, prevent redundancies, reduce the average working day without loss of wages, curb unemployment, and make quality public services universal in health, education and training, research, housing, justice and the environment. that is what the people of our countries expect of us. if you want more citizens to take part in the european elections, give the answer that the workers and the people of our countries want and deserve.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, at the beginning of this parliamentary term one of the main topics of debate was the institutional question. we started with the treaty of nice and five years later we will still have to take some important decisions in nice. the re-election of president barroso, which i naturally support, is certainly one of them. i hope, however, that the treaty of lisbon will enter into force quickly, not only because of its virtues and the improvements it has made over time, but also to allow the institutional debate to stabilise. i hope above all that our energy will then be better used and directed towards the europe of results, which the president of the commission has always spoken about. if the irish vote yes in the next referendum, it will be more because they have realised that europe is a safe haven, especially in times of crisis. reality is thus our most powerful ally but can also be the most fearsome of adversaries. today, the modern promise of europe is above all that of prosperity and well-being for the people, and that promise depends very much on what we are able to decide, including at the next european council. above all, we need political will to respond to the economic situation. protectionism, state control, fear of globalisation are not helping us. we need to unleash the creative energies of the economy, give them space, insist on reform and law enforcement and, of course, support the most vulnerable. this will contribute to a europe of results and not to an abstraction from which citizens will inevitably remain aloof. as i leave parliament, madam president, this is the hope i want to express, this is the hope that animates me.
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office, we are in an unprecedented crisis. it was not the time to discuss internally how we should organise ourselves, so i hope that the treaty of lisbon will be ratified quickly so that we can face the world scene united and united as europeans. as regards the economic crisis, in the report i authored, which parliament approved by a majority, it was admitted that the recovery plan, which the commission had presented in the meantime, was not sufficient. today we know for sure that he is not enough. a crisis that started in finance is spreading to the real economy, then to employment and then to society. he's not enough and he's blurry. every crisis contains an opportunity, and this is the commission's opportunity to respond to the real problems of europeans by means of serious financial regulation, not the lightest and most piecemeal possible, as is the case at present, not made up of national and individualistic plans but of a genuine european initiative, not by means of scattered measures but by concentrating on the real challenge of employment. in every crisis there is an opportunity, this is the opportunity for the commission and europe to respond to the real problems of the european citizens and i hope that this will happen through a new approach to the recovery plan.
in writing. the eu tries to hide the 'sun with a sieve', but it is clear how much of the continuing deterioration of the living conditions of workers and the population is due to the eu. over the last 23 years, the eec/eu has promoted the circulation of capital and the financialization of the economy, liberalized and boosted privatization, concentrated overproduction, destroyed and relocated productive capacity, promoted economic domination by some at the expense of dependence on others, intensified the exploitation of workers, centralised wealth as never before, increased social inequalities and regional asymmetries, all under the baton of the great powers and the big financial and economic groups. the european commission's catastrophic 'spring' forecasts are nothing more than a portrait of the consequences of the eu's neoliberal policies - decided and implemented by the right and social democracy - for portugal: more than 600,000 unemployed, loss of real wages, two years of recession, growth in public debt and a budget deficit that will once again exceed 6%. but much worse than these predictions is the current reality for millions of portuguese who see their difficulties increase day by day. on 7 june, the portuguese will have another opportunity to say enough by voting for the cdu!
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few months since the report on the renewed social agency was drawn up, the effects of the economic, financial and social crisis affecting europe and the world have been worsening. every day we see more layoffs, more businesses closing, more families in dire straits. more than an economic and financial crisis, i feel we are experiencing a crisis of confidence. according to the latest eurostat data, in february 2009 more than 19 million men and women were unemployed in the european union. in the face of this picture, if nothing is done, the increase in unemployment will surely lead to more poverty, more social exclusion, more insecurity, more crime and above all more mistrust. let us be aware that unemployment, the most visible aspect of this crisis, does not only mean loss of income for those who are unemployed and their families. unemployment is discouraging and can lead to a loss of confidence in themselves and in others around them. even before the crisis we are facing today, the member states of the european union were already confronted with the social problems resulting from weak economic growth, a complicated demographic situation and the difficulties of living with an increasingly globalised world economy. in this report i have tried to reflect these concerns as clearly and as pragmatically as possible. i know that a social agenda is a very broad concept and so i have tried to come up with a balanced report and to present in a clear and concise way what is really a priority. first, the european union institutions can play a major role in reaffirming the importance of the social models and structures of the member states, helping to build consensus on the importance of their universal access, quality and above all sustainability. secondly, we must use all the instruments at our disposal to ensure that people are better and more fully integrated into the labour market. the third priority stems from the conclusion that much remains to be done for the full mobility of citizens within the european union. fourthly, i think the european union has to play a much more active role in promoting social and environmental standards in its external relations with emerging powers such as brazil, russia, india and china, and this is particularly important when it comes to trade agreements. the fifth priority which the commission has tried to implement, even today with this vote which we are also going to have on the report on the globalisation funds, concerns the flexibility of the european structural funds. in order for european citizens to understand and cope with the changes brought about by the current context, the social dialogue must be strengthened with the aim of increasing transparency in decisions on social adjustment and economic restructuring. i often say that we must move from a phase of conflict to a phase of cooperation in relations of social dialogue. the open method of coordination, an essential complement to european union legislation, should also be strengthened. social policies cannot be a blanket of loose actions and ideas, but must be better coordinated between economic, labour, social and environmental initiatives. it is essential that social policy should go hand in hand with economic policy, aiming at a sustainable recovery not only of the economic but also of the social fabric. there is one point on which i want to be very clear, the crisis we are experiencing cannot be used as a pretext for reducing social spending, but it must be said that if this is not the time to cut social spending, it is also the time to continue decisively to implement the necessary structural reforms, so i have to congratulate the commission and president barroso who, in very complex circumstances, have managed to get europe to deal with the problems of the crisis in a coordinated way... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - at this stage of the debate i would like to make three comments. firstly, to say that social policy is not the monopoly of any political force in this house. the epp, the political force i represent here, has made a very decisive contribution to social policy during this mandate. i was very active in several reports, in several dossiers, i recall the review of the european social fund, the globalisation adjustment fund, flexicurity, the report on the european social model, the working time directive and now the european social agenda. i am convinced from the experience of this mandate that it is possible to reach a broad consensus on social policy issues. but we must be more demanding in terms of achieving consensus in political action. and here i have the feeling that at the level of the commission, at the level of the european institutions, we should create much more incentives for local and regional funding, provided that there is convergence between different entities and actions so that social problems can be solved. the third comment i wanted to make had to do with the trust problem. trust cannot be decreed, it cannot be legislated, it depends to a large extent on the behaviour of the institutions. i believe that a culture of cooperation in policy-making helps to restore confidence. i think that during this term of office, here in the european parliament, we have set a good example in the sense of cooperation and the result of this work of the renewed social agency is clearly based on this idea. i agree with the commissioner when he says that the social dialogue must be at the centre of the debate, but more than the social dialogue, i think we are now in a time when social policy must be at the centre of the political debate. i therefore welcome the words which have been spoken here in the context of the summit on employment and social policy. i think it is appropriate at this stage to discuss this matter. finally, as my last speech in this parliament, i would like to congratulate all my colleagues, and the commissioner and the commission, on behalf of the president, for the way in which they have cooperated with me during these five years of intense and exciting activity in this european parliament. thank you so much!
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in the light of the european union's so-called 5 billion package for the european economic recovery plan, it is useful to recall the resolution this parliament adopted on the mid-term review of the financial framework for 2007-13, which states that the own resources ceiling represents 1.24% of the european union's gni in payments and that in fact it has been less than 1%; that significant margins remain annually up to the limit set by the multiannual financial framework, more than 29 billion in payments in the last three years; that there are margins between the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework and the ceiling of the european union's own resources, more than 176 billion from 2010 to 2013. that said, it begs the question: why, in the face of the worsening economic situation, is not at least the multiannual financial framework being complied with? why does the european union choose to withdraw 2 billion from the agricultural margin when thousands and thousands of farmers are facing increasing difficulties? do farmers need support first to cope with rising production factors and falling producer prices or broadband internet? to ensure this neutral adjustment, from which other budget lines will some eur 2 billion be withdrawn? cohesion too? how will the almost €4 billion for energy projects and the nearly €1 billion for - let us say - the promotion of broadband in rural areas be redistributed? will the so-called unfair return apply? where is the much-vaunted solidarity at european union level? or has the mountain finally given birth to a mouse once again?
this year european wealth will fall by 4% and unemployment will rise to 26 million. the world and the european union should have done more, better and sooner in regulating financial markets. i welcome the work of this parliament, much of it in a climate of urgency, but i stress the contribution of the socialist group, which should have been more recognized in due course. i regret that the commission's reaction was slower, more partial and more light-hearted than the situation required and demanded, as illustrated by the recent proposal on hedge funds. the adoption of the capital requirements directive is another step in the right direction. we know that it is not ambitious enough and falls short of what is desirable, but today the most important thing is to give a clear signal to the institutions and the financial markets that business as usual is over. i therefore commend the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular pervenche berès, for their efforts to reach a compromise. this directive allows for the introduction of clear rules, but much work will still have to be done during the forthcoming review of some of the most controversial issues, in particular the level of the value of the securitisation hold. today it is essential that this parliament ensures that this directive is adopted, sending a clear message to the european citizens that things are changing and will continue to change and that we care about them above all.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would ask the services to bear in mind that the valid language version for all amendments is the portuguese version. secondly, i would ask that the order of voting be changed, that commission amendment no 43 be voted before amendment no 83 for reasons of consistency. finally, i would remind you that this directive which we are about to amend is 17 years old, and is clearly out of date. the revised directive will not come into force before the end of the next parliamentary term. so we're legislating for the future, not the immediate. and above all, we are legislating for the good of the citizens, giving them more reasons to vote in the elections next june. i therefore ask for the support of my colleagues for my report.
madam president, there is no point in referring this report, this proposal, back to the commission, because it has been discussed with all the groups. he has a support that i assume is a majority in this house. it was discussed with the commission, it was discussed with the council. of course, there are different positions. we know that, unfortunately, the council under the czech presidency has taken very conservative positions on the promotion of gender equality. and that is why i ask the house to vote on the proposals, to support my report, because it will give citizens more reasons to go and vote in the european elections.
in writing. − the european commission communication com ((2007) 281 has issued a challenge to all european institutions: the time has come to look at brazil as a strategic partner, a leading economic actor in latin america and a regional leader. this partnership was launched on 4 july 2007 in lisbon during the portuguese presidency of the european union and the european parliament adopted on 12 march 2009 a recommendation to the council in which it stated that the strategic partnership should allow for the establishment of a regular structured dialogue between the members of the national congress of the federative republic of brazil and the members of the european parliament. despite this declaration of principle, i note with sadness that parliament, despite my appeals to the president of this house, persists in the anachronistic option of making brazil the only one of the bric countries with which it does not maintain an autonomous parliamentary delegation, thus denying its own deliberation and revealing a deplorable inertia and shortsightedness in the face of the real importance of brazil in the world. i hope that future colleagues, particularly the portuguese, will help to change this regrettable state of affairs and establish fruitful and direct communication with the brazilian congress. i voted against it.
in writing. - millions of europeans depend on the internet, either directly or indirectly, for their lifestyle. limiting, restricting or conditioning it would have a direct negative impact on the daily lives of the population and of a large number of micro and smes that directly depend on this resource to carry out their activity. it was therefore important that our group's proposal to maintain free trade between users not controlled or promoted by the intermediary should have been approved with our vote in favour. however, it seems that the council is not prepared to accept this amendment by the majority of the european parliament which runs counter to the limitation agreement agreed in the negotiations with the council. but it's a small victory, considering you stopped a bad proposal from passing. congratulations to all those who defend the free movement of internet and free software. it is a fight we will continue to ensure that citizens' rights are protected and that end users have unrestricted access to services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the astrid lulling report on equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment, although i think that more should have been done to strengthen women's rights and maternity protection. in europe, selfemployment, which accounts for 16% of the active population, remains a minority activity. only one third of the selfemployed are women. this proposal should remove obstacles to women's access to selfemployment by providing for specific measures or advantages to facilitate the exercise of selfemployment. i think that the spouses who work for us should have a very well defined occupational status and social protection equal to that of the selfemployed.
, in writing. - this partial improvement of the european globalisation adjustment fund falls short of what is needed in the serious crisis we are experiencing and has not even taken into account some of the proposals we have made to increase the community contribution to 85% of the amount to be allocated to the unemployed, or even to double the value of the fund so as to cover more people who are victims of business closures. that is why we abstained. the amendment to the rules of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was adopted today, is intended to enable the fund to intervene more effectively in co-financing the training and placement of workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. the new rules extend the scope of the fund and provide for a temporary increase in the co-financing rate from 50% to 65% in order to provide additional support from the fund during the financial and economic crisis. but countries in financial difficulty will make little use of the fund, as they still have to bear a high share of co-financing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the programme for granting financial support to projects in the field of energy. the european parliament's investment proposal, based on an agreement reached by the council, is based on three pillars: interconnection of gas and electricity networks, carbon capture and storage and offshore wind energy projects. as such, the proposal lays down procedures and methods of financial support which aim to stimulate investment in the creation of an integrated european energy network and which, at the same time, reinforce the european union's policy for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. there is a need for immediate action to stimulate the european economy and therefore it is important to have measures that ensure an appropriate geographical balance and a rapid implementation. in portugal, projects for the interconnection of gas networks (infrastructure and equipment) and also projects to strengthen the interconnection of the electricity network with spain are eligible.
in writing. - if there were any doubt as to the real objective of this proposal, it would be sufficient to quote the wording in the text adopted today, namely to ensure the removal of the obstacles which continue to hamper the proper functioning of the internal market, as stated in article 2 of the proposal, which clarifies that the general objective is to improve the conditions under which the internal market operates. it is, however, at least once more a paradigm shift that, after the failure of the so-called plan to revive the european economy and the so-called european solidarity, the first and only proposal to create a community support programme so far is directed at financial services! it seems that we are not facing one of the major crises of capitalism, with the worsening of unemployment, the destruction of the productive apparatus or the growing inequalities and difficulties of the peoples and workers. the proposals we have been making - to strengthen the community budget, to set up community programmes to support the productive fabric, to defend employment with rights and public services - have been rejected, but when it comes to supporting the financial market and the proper functioning of the internal market, the community's financial resources are not lacking. this is unacceptable. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection of animals at the time of slaughter. every year millions of animals are killed in the european union. many animals are subjected to forms of treatment that cause unnecessary suffering, not only during rearing and transport, but also at the time of slaughter or killing and related operations. the suffering of animals in slaughterhouses must be avoided, including animals reared for the production of food and other products. the proposal seemed to me to be balanced and consistent with the community's objectives of animal protection and welfare. i agree that large-scale slaughter of animals should be carried out in accordance with humanitarian standards and limit the suffering of animals. i did not, however, vote in favour of the amendment which removed the ban on the use of reverse or other unnatural restraint systems for cattle, as i believe that this practice is harmful to the welfare of the animals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the silva peneda report on a renewed social agenda. in the context of the current economic crisis, it is crucial that social policy is linked to economic policy with a view to a recovery of the european economy. european social models are faced with a number of challenges, including demographic change and globalisation, to which they cannot remain immune. as a consequence, they need to be modernised in the long term, while preserving their original values. europe must be ambitious in its social policy, especially now that we are going through a serious crisis. i think, however, that the commission's renewed social agenda is very unambitious, comes too late and is not fully adapted to the challenges created by the financial and economic crises. social and employment policies must be strengthened to reduce or avoid job losses and protect europeans from social exclusion and the risk of poverty.
in writing. - this is a report with many contradictions, but which, in essence, insists on the existing orientations of neoliberal capitalism, albeit attenuated in one or another point, but without changing the underlying policies that are at the origin of the current economic and social crisis. the guideline is the same as always. the crisis is now being used to sell the recipe for more of the same: flexibility, the internal market, public-private partnerships, etc., ignoring that the policies of the european union are also at the origin of the crisis and have contributed to its worsening. the correct concerns it includes do not address or respond to the root causes of the problems identified, namely economic policies, precariousness, liberalization and privatization of public services, etc. alternative responses are lacking, notably in terms of strengthening the role of the state in the economy, in strategic sectors and in the deepening of quality public services, or, furthermore, in the defence of wage and pension increases, although it addresses the need for a better redistribution of wealth, but without pointing out ways to achieve it or advocating breaks with the policies that have aggravated social inequalities.
on behalf of the pse group. some consider the durban review conference a success. the final document respects the five red lines set by the european union and reflects a genuine global consensus, unlike the previous versions which were the subject of so much intense controversy. but unfortunately, it is not this document that will be etched in the memory of those who, out there in the world, watched the debates in geneva. it was rather the deep divisions caused by a conference devoted to a theme of universal vocation, such as the fight against racism, that mobilized the world's attention. europe has once again demonstrated the fragility of european unity on the most politically polarizing issues, as was the case at this conference. nothing would have been more symbolically important than a collective exit from the european union from the room in the face of the provocative and unacceptable intentions of an iranian president who, despite the change of tone in washington, is determined to put his country on a collision course with the west. unfortunately, some european countries were no longer in the room to express their displeasure at a speech whose sole purpose, as the un secretary-general pointed out, was to accuse, divide and even incite. unity is strength, and the european union, by being divided, has shown weakness. the fight against racism and hate speech by ahmadinejad and others deserved better.
the question period is now over (b6-0231/2009). the following questions were put to the council. we have here minister kohout on behalf of the council. i take this opportunity to welcome the decision taken today by the czech senate, which has given rise to good hopes for the future ratification of the treaty of lisbon.
question no 1 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0205/09) subject: protection of european cultural creation in view of the weakening of european cultural creation due to the proliferation of unauthorized copies of products of this creation, what measures does the council propose to effectively protect these products?
question no 2 by mr gay mitchell (h-0207/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of pesticides in view of the well-known scepticism of the czech president, václav klaus, about climate change, will the council ensure that the opinion of the overwhelming majority of eu citizens and member states, who support the scientific veracity of man-made climate change, will be respected, particularly with regard to the preparation of the copenhagen climate summit and the forthcoming swedish presidency?
question no 3 by avril doyle (h-0210/09) subject: the treaty of lisbon and the czech republic can the council comment on the possible deadline for the czech republic to ratify the treaty of lisbon?
question no 4 by mr bernd posselt (h-0213/09) subject: croatia, macedonia and south-eastern europe what is the council's view of the possibility of concluding accession negotiations with croatia this year, of indicating the date for the start of negotiations with macedonia this year and of defining the european perspective of the states of south-east europe, including kosovo, which is situated between croatia and macedonia?
question no 5 by mr claude moraes (h-0215/09) subject: protecting the most vulnerable from the economic crisis in the conclusions of its meeting of 19 and 20 march, the european council stated that in order to deal with the social impact of the current economic crisis, 'particular attention must be paid to the most vulnerable and to the new risks of exclusion. 'how is the council committed to protecting the most vulnerable, such as new migrants, the elderly, ethnic minorities, the disabled and the homeless, so as to prevent them from being pushed to the margins of society?
question no 6 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0217/09) subject: european employment pact and the european employment pact how does the council assess the proposal for the adoption of a european employment pact, which could be an important instrument for preserving social cohesion and promoting the development and economic recovery of the eu, which is suffering from the consequences of the world crisis?
question no 7 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0219/09) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: health care abroad the proposal for a directive on the enforcement of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare (com (2008) 0414), for which the european parliament is due to give its opinion in april, contains common provisions on the arrangements for reimbursement of medical expenses abroad. the aim of meps is to ensure that, as far as possible, patients in eu countries receive healthcare abroad (for example, by reimbursing higher medical costs in advance, to avoid reserving certain care for the rich), while in the council the tendency is to limit these rights and to allow member states to decide what healthcare abroad they wish to reimburse their citizens. how does the council see the contradictory positions of the european parliament and the council being reconciled? what compromises will be possible?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this is my last speech in the plenary, so it is a bit different. a day will come when federal and cosmopolitan parliaments will join to govern the world. the dream of a shared humanity without frontiers is being born right here in this place of representation, where freedom grows stronger and democracy grows wider. the enlightenment’s visionary idea of a union of peoples gives the first steps within the magic of our rooms and our debates. in this union machiavelli weakens, for we were able to replace the sovereignty of powers with the sovereignty of men. the paradigm of cosmopolitanism settles in our institutions and in our decisions and is now drawing a share of the action. a new anthropocentric vision of law and politics is emerging, and the post-national identity is taking form in the streets of europe. the sublime dignity of man is now the principle that brings together national and international law. it is the ultimate rule for our original coordination. what the european union and its parliament represents is a moral view without precedent in the history of mankind – a collective moral view that entered the strategy of the european states and founded their integration. european people’s mutual commitment is truly the assumption of their common humanity. in fact, isolation and egoism fell on that day of the treaty of rome. now justice emerges precisely from the virtue of politics, like a bridge between kant and aristotle, between freedom and happiness. the peoples of europe know that the only legitimacy is that which comes from human rights, and that the only authority belongs to the powers that respect them. they know that the emancipation of history is only possible through a project of political sharing and global justice. a day will come when the peoples of asia, of the americas and of africa will get together. the dignity of men will cross all cultures, from goethe to pessoa, from bach to tchaikovsky, from mohammed to buddha. human rights as a universal law, as common rule beyond all differences, and europe, to be an example, requires more constitution, more decentralisation, more politics, more expansion. at this moment of saying goodbye, i want to tell you how proud i am to have shared such an adventure with you. (applause)
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has adopted as a matter of urgency an amendment to regulation (eec) no 95/93 on the allocation of slots at airports, the main purpose of which was to suspend the 80/20 rule, that is to say, to prevent slots which have been acquired in the past and which have not been used from being auctioned. it is not a principle ad eternum, not a right of property, as the chairman of the committee, mr paolo costa, has just said, but a transitional measure. this suspension is based on the awareness that the economic crisis has caused a general decline in air passenger and cargo traffic, with a substantial impact on domestic carriers and other economic sectors and, consequently, at a worrying time for employment. we therefore have a duty not to force airlines to fly at economic and environmental costs that are not necessary just to maintain their schedules. hence my support for the suspension of this 80/20 rule. that said, i would like to ask whether this committee will be sufficient to respond effectively to the global crisis affecting this sector or whether, as i believe, the commission should consider and propose a programme of support for this sector to put it, after the crisis, on a path of stability and growth. we remember that many companies, such as my country's flagship company, have overcome economic crises and have consolidated their economies to find themselves today in a crisis situation which is difficult to overcome, a crisis which they did not create but which they suffer from. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last speech i shall make in this term of office and it may be the last, since it depends on the voters. and so i could not pass up this opportunity without expressing my gratitude for the support and cooperation which i have always received from my colleagues in my modest contribution to the construction of a european project and to the response to the citizens. i would therefore like to express my gratitude and thanks to you, mr president, to mr tajani and to all my colleagues in the party. i remember those who have just spoken here, simpson, gilles savary and others from other parties, such as the chairman of our committee, paolo costa, with whom i had the pleasure of working on several reports, and georg jarzembowski, who i will not forget, as a leader of his party in the transport sector, who was always cooperative, often saying no to me, saying he understood me, but always with great elegance and with great democratic sense. at the very least, this is what i am taking home, to consolidate what good democracy should be, a democracy of respect for pluralism and the pursuit of the objectives that are ours.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mainstreaming of the gender dimension in the eu's external relations. greater integration of women into politics, including external relations and diplomacy, is essential for the successful implementation of the eu's external policies, including in the areas of aid, development, enlargement, neighbourhood policy, conflict resolution, security and peacebuilding and international trade. despite the plurality of policy documents adopted at eu level on gender equality and women's rights, actual commitment to gender equality and women's rights remains low and budgetary resources specifically allocated to gender issues are insufficient. it is important to stress that mainstreaming gender requires not only high-level political statements, but also the political will of eu and member state leaders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the jo leinen report. this report provides a detailed analysis of the new powers of the european parliament in the light of the lisbon treaty, in particular the new powers of co-decision, the new budgetary powers, the new approval procedure, the new powers of control, the new rights of information and the new rights of citizens. the final result shows that the european parliament will strengthen its powers, including co-decision, and increase its capacity to influence decision-making, thus strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the european union.
in writing. - the resolution is part of a package of five resolutions adopted today by the ep, which represents the clearest contempt for the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples, who rejected the european constitution and the so-called lisbon treaty, and is part of the anti-democratic campaign and process aimed at imposing this unacceptable draft treaty. in disregard of the democratic will expressed by these peoples and of what is written in the treaties themselves - which the sister forces of the right and social democracy have approved - they are forcing the irish people to hold a new referendum (while preventing other peoples from being consulted in this way) and are multiplying the pressures and interferences to force them to accept this treaty which deepens the federalism, neoliberalism and militarism of the eu. this is the hypocritical and cynical european democracy: the same ones who, by giving the unspoken word (like the ps and the psd), denied the people the right to debate and consult by means of the referendum on the lisbon treaty proposal, the same ones who only respect the popular will as long as it is in line with their request now to the people of each of the countries in the eu to give them their confidence and vote for them in the next elections to the ep... it takes a lot of nerve.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zwiefka report, as i think it is of great importance to establish a procedure which allows member states to negotiate international agreements on matters falling within the exclusive competence of the ec, in cases where the ec has not decided to exercise its competence. in other words, portugal is currently prevented from concluding international agreements to speed up judicial cooperation, in particular in matters relating to divorce, marriage annulment, among others, because it is considered that the ec has partially acquired exclusive competence over these matters. the proposal allows the commission to authorise the conclusion of such agreements where the community itself does not intend to conclude or has not concluded an agreement on the same subject with a third country. i think it is very important that the negotiation of this regulation should be as rapid as possible, since it is in the interest not only of portuguese citizens but also of the citizens of the rest of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the deprez report. this regulation lays down a procedure for the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral agreements between member states and third countries. i think it is very important to establish a procedure which will allow member states to negotiate international agreements in cases where the ec has not decided to exercise its competence. for example, portugal is currently prevented from concluding international agreements to speed up judicial cooperation, in particular in matters relating to parental responsibility, maintenance obligations, divorce, among others, because it is considered that the ec has partially acquired exclusive competence over these matters. the proposal allows the commission to authorise the conclusion of such agreements. given the close ties that portugal has with certain countries, especially the cplp, and the significant number of immigrants in several countries, it is very important that, in the area of family law, portugal can speed up the recognition of the rights of portuguese citizens in those countries by concluding or revising bilateral agreements. and while i am using portugal as an example, i think it is equally important for all eu citizens that this regulation is negotiated as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2008 annual report on human rights. this report has two main objectives. on the one hand, it is intended to be a documentary reference base for knowledge, debate and evaluation of the actions that took place during the year, with the aim of improving, correcting or developing future actions. it also aims to inform the widest possible public about the actions taken by the european union to promote human rights worldwide. i think it is very important to have a debate to establish priorities, to identify issues requiring european intervention, and to keep up and periodically assess situations requiring increased vigilance. this report also includes the issue of women's rights and shows that there is a gap that needs to be filled in the development of specific eu policies and actions in favour of women's human rights.
in writing. - it would be enough to know the content of the resolution on the situation in palestine to see how unacceptable this is as an exercise of hypocrisy and cynicism on the part of the majority of the ep with regard to human rights (in the world). the resolution does not contain a word of condemnation of israel's cruel aggression against the palestinian people, which nothing can justify. the resolution whitewashes the barbarism that has been inflicted on the palestinian population in the gaza strip - which the un human rights council resolution has denounced and condemned - and does not have a word of solidarity with the palestinian people, victims of the most brutal human rights violations perpetrated by the israeli army, by the terrorism of the state of israel. the aspects of the resolution which may merit our agreement do not call into question the fact that, in its essence, this annual initiative of the ep is nothing more than a perfidious exercise in the exploitation of human rights and their inadmissible use as a weapon of interference by the great powers of the eu (and their great financial and economic interests) against peoples who assert their sovereignty and rights. once again, we say, you are counting on us to defend human rights, not to exercise hypocrisy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the impact of the lisbon treaty on the development of the eu's institutional balance. this report analyses the impact of the treaty of lisbon on the development of the institutional balance of the european union, stressing the importance of the implementation of the new provisions and the first appointments. the eventual entry into force of the treaty of lisbon by the end of 2009 requires a political agreement between the council and the european parliament to ensure that the procedure for the election of the next president of the commission and the appointment of the future commission always respects the new powers that the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament in this area. the report therefore makes a number of recommendations with a view to taking stock of the institutions and stresses that the lisbon treaty strengthens each of the european institutions in its field of competence.
in writing. - this resolution is part of a package of five resolutions, adopted today by the majority of the ep, which represents the clearest contempt for the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples, who in a referendum rejected the european constitution and its twin brother, the so-called lisbon treaty, and is part of the multiple initiatives aimed at imposing this unacceptable draft treaty; the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the lisbon treaty. - it transfers sovereign powers from the portuguese people to the supranational institutions of the eu, dominated by the great powers, as exemplified by the management of the marine biological resources of our exclusive economic zone; - extends the application of the majority rule in decision-making, which means strengthening the power of the great powers and preventing portugal from vetoing decisions which are in the national interest; - it accentuates the hollowing out of national democratic institutions (the only ones that are the direct result of the democratic will of the people), as exemplified by the transfer of powers to national parliaments, which lose decisionmaking power in fundamental areas and become a kind of advisory body without the right to veto community decisions contrary to national interests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the elmar brok report. this report welcomes the new powers given to national parliaments by the treaty of lisbon and examines the possibilities for future cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon in the czech republic represents an important step towards its rapid entry into force. this report shows how important this new treaty on european union is.
in writing. - this resolution is part of a package of five resolutions, adopted today by the majority of the ep, which represents the clearest contempt for the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples, who in a referendum rejected the european constitution and its twin brother, the so-called lisbon treaty, and is part of the multiple initiatives aimed at imposing this unacceptable draft treaty; this resolution on the development of relations between the ep and the national parliaments under the lisbon treaty is a travesty. the ep welcomes the powers and rights of national parliaments under the lisbon treaty (...), which reinforce their role in the political processes of the european union. it would be a laugh if it wasn't serious. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. even the (pseudo) control of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity (on the exercise by the community institutions of powers which have since been transferred to the eu by the national parliaments) does not give each of the national parliaments a veto power.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the citizens' initiative. the treaty of lisbon introduces the european citizens' initiative, that is, the right of citizens to intervene in the european legislative process. it is a completely new instrument that strengthens democracy and citizens' rights. this is undoubtedly a way of bringing european citizens closer to the european institutions and making them more attentive and participatory in decision-making.
in writing. the resolution is part of a package of five resolutions, adopted today by the majority of the ep, which represents the clearest contempt for the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples, and is part of the multiple initiatives aimed at imposing the unacceptable proposal for a treaty called lisbon. in the case of the present resolution, its characteristic features are its nonsense and hypocrisy. the ep can rhetorically praise the normal, transparent and effective exercise of the right of citizens to participate and the so-called citizens' initiative introduced in the proposed treaty, now called lisbon; the truth is that the forces which are leading and promoting the so-called european integration and this treaty of lisbon have done and are doing everything to prevent the people from debating and knowing the content of this proposal and being consulted by means of a referendum. moreover, after the irish people have rejected this federalist, neoliberal and militarist treaty proposal, they are doing everything to force a new referendum to be held in this country (as many times as necessary for the irish people to say yes). that is to say, they prevent the people from expressing their democratic and sovereign will by means of a referendum and then, with a mild smile, throw sand in their eyes by praising a so-called citizens' initiative, which is more than conditional from the outset.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. according to amnesty international, the day before her execution, the young woman had told her mother of her plans for the future, in the hope that the vast campaign for her release would be successful. delara darabi is another martyr of religious fanaticism, like so many others whose execution we have denounced here. it was also this week that human rights organizations confirmed the information, first reported by the national council of resistance of iran, that a man accused of adultery had been stoned to death in lakan prison and that they announced the imminent stoning of another man in gilan province, again denying iranian claims of a moratorium on this barbaric practice. how the movement for the abolition of the death penalty denounces the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. the arrest of third country nationals, such as the american roxana saberi, is also a routine practice for blackmailing other countries to obtain diplomatic concessions. in this regard, it is extremely accurate, and sums up what is most important, the comment made by the secretary of throw the hands of cain, sergio d'elia: the brutality of the mullah regime is not solely the responsibility of the fundamentalist iranian regime. the european governments are acquiescing to this by silence, tolerance and an unbridled desire to please, and they are succumbing to iranian political and commercial blackmail. the regime in tehran is threatening the peace and security of the world and, even more obviously, its own citizens, through acts that it has been practicing for decades. instead of taking this into account, europe is making iran the solution to the problems of the middle east, when it is the main problem. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of iran, and i hope that the people of iran will not be left to their own prisoners and the people of the greater middle east to the whirlwind of religious fanaticism.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in another grotesque exercise of distortion of reality, we are once again confronted with the disgraceful operation of interference by the european parliament in venezuela. in fact, this operation is part of the manoeuvres of those who conspire against the democratic and sovereign process of emancipation and social progress initiated a decade ago by the venezuelan people and reaffirmed in 14 electoral processes. once again, what really bothers the promoters of this initiative is that despite all the problems, threats, dangers and interferences, the venezuelan people have been an example that it is worth fighting for and it is possible to build a country and a world that is more just, more democratic and peaceful. this is demonstrated by the achievement of broad areas of popular participation, the reduction of poverty rates, social inequality and unemployment, the fight against illiteracy and the extension of educational provision at all levels, the access of millions of venezuelans to health care, the national network of food markets at subsidized prices, the de facto nationalization of the state oil company and strategic sectors of the economy, the use of productive land by peasants, solidarity with other peoples, among many other examples. and let us ask: what is the moral character of this parliament, which wants to impose a draft treaty rejected by the french, dutch and irish peoples, which approves the inhumane return directive, which violates the human rights of immigrants, many of them from latin america, and which has not a word of condemnation for israel's barbaric aggression against the palestinian people in the gaza strip, in order to teach lessons in democracy and respect for human rights? for the umpteenth time, we say: stop pretending you can lecture the world.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to correct my colleague mr guerreiro, who is misinformed, because according to the undp indicators, the united nations plan, venezuela has not reduced poverty by one tenth in the last ten years. chavez has been a demagogue and a dictator. unfortunately, with support at the ballot box, but with a lot of intimidation on the citizens, as this case of manuel rosales once again confirms. i was with manuel rosales. i had the honor of meeting him on a visit to venezuela. and i deeply regret the fate that has befallen him, because he wants to be a free man in his country and he cannot be a free man in his country. this is the problem of venezuela. i met him as the elected governor of zulia state. he was elected by his people as mayor of maracaibo, and he cannot live in his country because in venezuela people are persecuted and slandered. they are being slandered, as is happening miserably with manuel rosales. it is the worst punishment that can be inflicted on a politician, and we who are politicians in this house should all be aware of it. we can fight for ideas, but we don't have the right to slander anyone to persecute them and put them in jail. this is what's happening in venezuela. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to define a strategy for latin america. a strategy, an active diplomacy for latin america. i am sure that we are on the side of social progress, in line with the many millions we invest every year in development and cooperation, but we are 100% on the side of democracy, 100% on the side of pluralism, 100% on the side of fundamental freedoms. long live the free venezuela!
madam president, the prime minister has said that the czech presidency has been a success. i'm sorry, mr. fischer, but i have to disagree. the prime minister will be the least responsible, but the czech presidency was not at all consensual. it started with the artwork controversy - controversy that favours the artist, but not the presidency. then internal political instability damaged the image of the european union, that is, of all of us. it is true, mr fischer, that the czech republic has succeeded in ratifying the treaty of lisbon, but it lacks the signature of president václav klaus and we agree that having a eurosceptic president when you are the president of the european union does not help. the czech president gave several signs of euroscepticism, refusing to use the union flag. but more important is the fact that the treaty of lisbon has not been signed. it is a disrespect for all of us and for the citizens of europe. but the czech presidency was particularly bad on the maternity leave directive. i know what i am talking about because i was a rapporteur on that report. the presidency's intervention on this matter was very negative and was greatly helped by mrs lulling, who boycotted the vote on my report. the czech presidency was against extending maternity leave to 20 weeks, it was against including paternity leave, which is essential to ensure that men and women share family responsibilities and thus promote gender equality. mr. prime minister, men are as much needed at home as women are in the workplace. men have as much right to accompany their children as women do to their professional development. mr. prime minister, please don't underestimate women's rights or their capabilities.
the world is facing one of the most serious crises of capitalism, with dramatic consequences for workers and peoples. in the eu, this crisis is a consequence of the neoliberal policies that have been pursued - policies enshrined in the treaties and the so-called 'lisbon strategy', which the lisbon treaty seeks to institutionalise, with increased breadth and depth. instead of seriously attacking the causes of the crisis, the council reiterates the main lines of the policies which caused it, in what constitutes a worrying and irresponsible leap forward, maintaining that: - the intention to approve the lisbon treaty, now by a deception which consists in making what is exactly the same and has already been rejected by the irish people appear different;- the free and unregulated movement of capital and the existence of offshore;- the liberalisation of markets, the privatisation of public services and the increasing financialisation of the economy; - the deregulation of industrial relations, the devaluation of wages, the intensification of exploitation, with the defence of flexicurity; - unemployment is not adequately tackled, and large sums of money continue to be channelled to support the financial sector, while the same attention is not paid to the productive sectors.
since dag hammarskjöld sweden has distinguished itself as a member of the un. so he knows that without bodies with legitimacy and representativeness that are universally recognized, there will be no political force to conclude a kyoto ii, the doha round, the millennium development goals, or regulate the global economy, let alone defend human rights. it is regrettable that the swedish presidency resigns from the informal and contested g20 framework. it is tragic that the eu, the locomotive of the world that mr barroso referred to, quoting the un secretary-general, is lacking leadership and strategic vision on this matter, while president obama proclaims his commitment to the governance of the world, but on the other side we hear only the pope urging the imperative to reform the un security council and the bretton woods institutions. mr president, why is the swedish presidency refraining from leading europe to force reform of the un security council by demanding a seat at the table for european union with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon?
the anti-social programme of the swedish presidency of the council of the european union is a dangerous piece of the deepening of neoliberal policies, reflecting a real leap forward by the leaders of capitalism in the european union, forgetting that their policies are the main cause of the economic and social crisis. although in presenting the programme the swedish presidency referred to the people and the problems of unemployment, it did not point to a single measure to change the existing policies that have caused these problems. on the contrary, i did. he stressed in particular the need for free competition policies in a wide range of areas, including services and external trade, and he placed everything on the recovery of financial markets, the return to the so-called paradigms of the stability pact, and the defence of neoliberalism, which will certainly result in new attacks on social and labour rights. it also did not forget the insistence on a new referendum in ireland on the draft treaty of lisbon, already scheduled for 2 october, persisting in blackmailing the irish people to move faster in the destruction of public services, in the reduction of social rights, including in the areas of social security, health, water, social protection and workers' rights, and it is not difficult to guess that new proposals for directives are expected which will try to take up lines of proposals that were rejected in the previous legislature.
the coup d'état which took place in honduras on 28 june is an act against the free political expression of the honduran people and their most basic democratic rights. since then, the government has de facto been taking repressive measures against the popular movement that is taking to the streets, has established a regime of blocking information, curtailing freedoms, persecutions, illegal detentions, disappearances and even murders of members of the resistance organized to the coup. we have had the opportunity to witness all this during the recent visit of a delegation from the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left to honduras and nicaragua, where we met the legitimate president of that country, manuel zelaya. in these circumstances, the reaction of the european institutions is ambiguous to say the least. the unacceptable silence of some is compounded by the calls of others for the parties to do everything in their power to reach a political solution quickly, treating equally what is different, concealing responsibility, as if there were not a democratically elected president on the one hand and a coup government on the other that arrested him and expelled him from the country by illegally taking power. the most basic respect for democracy requires that the european institutions firmly and forcefully condemn the coup, implement measures which at international level contribute to increasing pressure on the coup government in power and its isolation, and do not recognise or support any electoral process which is not carried out without the prior restoration of democratic legality in the country.
mr president, it is very worrying what is happening to the former german footwear factory, rhode, in santa maria da feira, now called the luso-german footwear society. this company once employed about 3,000 workers but, after the problems in germany, it reduced its workforce and now has about 1000 workers, mostly women, most of whom are now with reduced work and wages, fearing that after the elections in portugal there will be the closure of the company. we know that unemployment is increasing in this municipality, and that it has already reached many thousands of workers, particularly in the shoe and cork processing sectors, so we call for special and urgent action to prevent another serious attack on production and employment in an area so plagued by unemployment.
madam president, commissioner, we are once again talking about fires, because every year fires consume part of the european forest and with climate change and global warming the future does not look any better. natural disasters cannot be avoided, but they must be prevented. the commission is therefore proposing to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and to define an appropriate forestry policy, which recognizes the multiple environmental services provided by forests, in particular the carbon sink. it is fair to acknowledge that the european system works better and that in several member states a great deal of effort and investment has been made in prevention and immediate action. for example, in my country, portugal, a plan has been adopted which provides for land reorganisation, the creation of a specific budget for firefighting, the revision of legislation and a programme for the recovery of the lost areas, and yet we still have fires. more and better work is needed in all the member states affected by the fires and the european commission must also adopt the proposals put forward by the european parliament in various resolutions. there are several documents that point to solutions. the barnier report and other documents tabled by parliament have already been mentioned. i myself was rapporteur on a report on natural disasters in the committee on the environment and also made some proposals. it is important to tell member states that they are invoking financial reasons for not being as quick to improve the mechanism, which is more expensive to remedy than to prevent. we also need an international agreement to combat climate change at the copenhagen conference, an ambitious agreement, and we are still waiting, commissioner, for the fire directive, as has already been done with regard to floods.
mr president, i also welcome the commissioner and the honourable members. this is a moment for solidarity, but it is also an opportunity - i would even say it is an obligation - to work on improvements, changes and adjustments. adjustments, as soon as possible, with regard to the european union solidarity fund so that it is used and so that this use is made in time to deal with these disasters, and improvements and changes with regard to forestry policy. we need a european forestry policy which aims to promote forestry and at the same time prevent fires. it should be noted that in many member states, such as my own in portugal, there is still no register of all the land, so it is not known who owns it, which creates difficulties in terms of parcels, reforestation and prevention policy. the question which also remains for this policy of prevention is a suggestion: why not include forestry prevention measures in the economic recovery plan for the european economy, in the plan to revive the european economy? if we were to promote actions to clean up forests - and the result of these actions could, for example, be used for energy production by means of biomass power stations of the right size for this purpose - if we were to act in this way, we would certainly be friends of the environment, we would certainly protect it and at the same time create jobs, which is also one of the objectives of europe at the moment.
mr president, in addition to all the demonstrations of solidarity with this scourge of forest fires which every year affects our southern countries, including greece, italy, spain and portugal, it is urgent to take all the necessary measures to reverse this situation, which destroys our forest heritage, property, animals, biodiversity and, even more seriously, many human lives. it is therefore time to face up to the causes of this scourge and to take account of the growing and serious neglect of the rural world. it is time to change the common agricultural policy to focus on prevention, which also means focusing on the multifunctionality of agriculture, including the mediterranean forest, supporting family farming and giving small and mediumsized farmers and young people the opportunity to settle in the rural world and thus contribute to the prevention measures that prevent this scourge every year.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the commissioner's statement makes it clear that there are economic and financial sectors and groups in the european union which will benefit from this agreement with south korea, but there is the other side of the coin, commissioner, which she has not considered here, particularly with regard to certain more sensitive sectors such as the textile and clothing sector and the employment of workers. it is therefore worrying, as the industrial sectors and workers' organizations in our countries have pointed out, that the european commission continues to ignore the serious situation in the textile and clothing industries, particularly in my country, portugal, where unemployment is reaching alarming levels, precisely in the regions where these industries predominate, in the north and in certain areas of the centre. we therefore insist on the need for a coherent and concerted strategy to defend european union industry, particularly labour-intensive sectors, either through urgent regulation of the world trade market or through public policies that support investment, innovation, differentiation, vocational training and the creation of jobs with rights.
mr minister, commissioner, there is no choice in the matter of the geneva convention and human rights. the only choice is to honor the agreements we signed. the case law is clear: sending refugees to countries which have not signed the geneva convention on refugees, when they reach european shores, is a violation of the geneva convention. this is not an abstract legal point, this is a real argument. when we, through frontex, through the member states, send refugees to libya, we are violating the convention, all the more so when we know that 75% of the people who arrive on european shores, according to figures from the italian government itself, are seeking asylum, and 50% of those 75, about 38% of the total, are entitled to humanitarian protection. now, political choices lead to moral choices, and we are faced at this moment with a moral choice. is it fair, is it moral, that more than 14,000 people have died trying to reach european shores in recent years? is it morally right that so many of these people risking their lives should have been granted asylum in the first place? will they have to risk their lives? no, it's not necessary that they have to risk their lives. we have been saying this for a long time, a purely repressive immigration policy, like the one that has been followed, puts us in front of these life-or-death choices of people's lives and makes us all co-responsible for this life-or-death choice. so it is not, at the beginning of this mandate, throwing money at frontex, money that frontex cannot spend, money that the commission says is not advisable to give to frontex at this time. that's not gonna solve our problem. what can solve the problem for us is to review the mandate of frontex and then frontex could need more money. for that frontex would have to cooperate, give full information to the unhcr - which it does not at the moment - for that frontex would have to imply in its own policy humanitarian concerns - which it does not imply - and this is all the more serious, ladies and gentlemen, because at the moment the proposal for funds for refugees, while increasing frontex, is decreasing funds.
in writing. - with a view to replacing some provisions of bilateral air services agreements previously concluded between member states of the european union and the government of mongolia, this proposal focuses on aspects which i consider essential, both at the technical level and in terms of fuel taxation and pricing practices. i think that the reservation on the importance of respecting community competition law is particularly relevant, since some provisions of previous bilateral agreements were clearly anti-competitive. i therefore support the report by my colleague brian simpson because it is in line with these general guidelines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for france because i believe that this fund contributes to responding in an effective and flexible way to situations created by natural disasters, in this case the storm that last january hit the south-west of france causing great damage. this solidarity financial instrument, which is granted in cases where the damage caused by a disaster is so severe that national resources are not sufficient to respond effectively to the crisis, is intended to stimulate economic recovery and to respond to the needs of the affected member state.
in writing. - i believe that solidarity between the member states of the european union, and in particular european support for states affected by disasters, is a clear sign that the european union is no longer just a free trade area. by adopting special aid instruments such as the european union solidarity fund, the community it aims to build 'united in diversity' demonstrates its ability to remain united in adversity, even in situations of particular human and material demand. i can't help but congratulate you on that. i hope that the solidarity fund will not be used too often - that would mean that europe will not suffer many serious emergencies - but i also hope that its structure and availability will be increasingly improved and frequently assessed so that it can meet any real needs quickly and without bureaucracy. i am reminded of the fires that have been ravaging my country, particularly those of 2003, and i recognise the importance and usefulness of the existence of mechanisms such as this fund. i believe that the particularly serious situation in france in january of this year justifies its mobilization. the overwhelmingly favourable vote in the committee on budgets confirms the goodness of this measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides additional support for portuguese workers affected by redundancies in the textile sector and suffering the consequences of profound structural changes in world trade. the mobilisation of eur 832 800 under the fund aims to reintegrate workers into the labour market through personal employment plans, designed in conjunction with the workers, which provide for the development of personal skills and labour market integration strategies.
in writing. − eu support, in particular the european globalisation adjustment fund, is key to helping the unemployed, who are victims of relocation in a globalised context. in recent years, and particularly as a consequence of the world economic crisis, portugal has felt the effects of the difficult reabsorption and reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market. many companies have moved because of the low labour costs in countries such as china and india, with negative effects on the national economy as a whole. the approval of egf funds to help these workers is essential not only for improving their personal and family situation but also for the whole national economy, since the ultimate objective of these exceptional measures is to help these workers to find and keep a new job.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because i believe that this support is important for portuguese workers. however, i think that the portuguese application was not very ambitious. it should be noted that the portuguese government requested from the egf an amount of eur 833 for each worker affected by redundancies in the textile sector, while spain requested for the same sector eur 3006 for each worker. it is also surprising that at a time of economic crisis and rising unemployment, when the effects of globalisation are being felt, the egf is little sought after and used by the member states. in fact, the egf has an amount of eur 500 million available for the current year for all member states, and only about eur 60 million has been used so far.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. although it is a small sum, it is only a palliative in view of the serious unemployment situation in portugal, particularly in these regions. as is known, portugal made its request to the european commission in january this year for this amount, and it concerns 1,588 redundancies recorded from february to november 2008 in 49 textile companies in the north and centre of the country. however, eur 3 306 750 was also approved to support the 1 720 workers made redundant by 30 textile companies in catalonia, spain. but what was really needed was a policy of support for production, particularly in the textile sector, to prevent further closures and redundancies.
in writing. − recognising the negative impact of globalisation on europe's industrial regions, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) builds on the solidarity of the european project and brings it closer to the citizen by providing support to workers most affected by these changes. the northern and central regions of portugal, whose economy was based on traditional sectors such as textiles, have been modernizing since the early 1990s, trying to adapt to a rapid increase in competition. textiles absorb about 15% of the labour force in these areas of the country and almost 98% of unemployment in the sector nationally is concentrated in the two regions. the deterioration of the economic environment that has affected these regions, along with others - particularly the outermost regions such as madeira, where tourism is of great importance - has had worrying consequences for social cohesion, especially as a result of the increase in unemployment. i am therefore supporting the mobilisation of eur 832 800 from the egf following the dismissal of 1 588 textile workers in the northern and central regions of portugal, which should be used wisely to reconvert these workers and reintegrate them into the labour market in a rapid and sustainable way.
mr president, it is very brief: mr schulz, i listened to you very carefully and i share many of the questions you put to the president of the commission, who is now running for re-election. i even heard him say that socialists do not go only with the right, that europe is not built only with the right. i ask you how many members of your parliamentary group, socialists, portuguese, spanish and british, have already given their support to the new candidate, regardless of what mr schulz thinks?
mr president, madam minister, i would like to begin by congratulating you, mr president barroso. firstly, the work of the commission over the past five years has shown its firmness vis-à-vis the member states, as in the climate/energy dossier, and its ability to generate commitments and consensus, as in the financial perspective, with the added difficulties resulting from enlargement, the institutional crisis and the international financial crisis. secondly, the quality of the political guidelines for the next commission which you have presented to this parliament. but, mr president, that is the way democracy works: some like it, some don't. some do not like it because it is too european, others because of ideological prejudice, others compare it with the past, forgetting that today it is the interests of 27 member states that need to be reconciled and not just 12, and that, fortunately, this parliament has more power and interinstitutional cooperation is more demanding. others wanted to postpone. to postpone would be to create a vacuum, to weaken the commission, to weaken europe. the world doesn't wait for us. just yesterday the president of brazil, in statements, threw the g8 into the garbage of history defending the g20. the world does not stand by and wait for europe to clean up its house and elect its leaders. to postpone would be to concede europe's irrelevance in a more global world. we are naturally proud that a portuguese is presiding over the european commission, but our support is not an expression of mere national solidarity, it is recognition of the work done and it is agreement with its priorities, which we make our own, economic growth, the bet on innovation and the qualification of people and the fight against unemployment, the affirmation of the importance of economic and social cohesion, the bet on the environment and the fight against climate change, more security without diminishing freedom, strengthening citizenship and civic participation. i welcome what you have just proposed to us in terms of working together, bringing this parliament and its commission closer together in the interests of our common europe. it is time for this parliament to give the heads of state of different political families the benefit of the doubt, because they unanimously reappointed him as head of the commission. president barroso, good luck and good work.
mr president, the lisbon treaty will be ratified and will enter into force in a few months' time. that's my wish. but your programme and your speech today made it clear that you want to strengthen the powers of the european parliament now. we agree, because we can no longer go back to the time when the destiny of europe was decided between the council and the commission and when the european parliament was reserved a mere figurehead. i believe, mr president, that your next term will be decisive in consolidating this new institutional balance between the commission, the council and parliament. our support is therefore not a blank check, it is an investment. the democratic tradition, the defence of human rights, innovations in cleaner energy production and better environmental policies are european trademarks, but nothing sets us apart from the rest of the world more than our social policies. i would therefore like to express our hope that the commission, which i am sure you will chair, will take on the responsibility of defending, consolidating and improving the european social model and promoting equality between men and women. mr president, before i close, i want to emphasize that i have recorded your words today, your commitments for the future. you can count on the vote of the portuguese socialists. but count on a loyal relationship, no doubt, but very demanding during the next term. i wish you good luck and good work.
in writing. it is with pleasure that, as a portuguese and member of the european parliament, i will vote in favour of the re-election of josé manuel durão barroso as president of the european commission. i believe that your performance during the current mandate, which has been marked by so many political, financial and social difficulties, and the experience gained in these roles justify the commitment of the governments and the renewed confidence of this house. i deplore the many attempts - not all of them clear or serious - to prevent the success of this application and i note that they have been frustrated not only by the lack of a credible alternative but also by the inexperience of the arguments. i regret that colleagues in my own country do not resist this easy but inconsequential way. i hope that the second barroso commission will be able to combine 'the swing of the wings' with technical competence and, in respecting and effectively applying the principle of subsidiarity, opt for the certainty and firmness of the small steps advocated by jean monnet, rather than the accelerated pace which, while so glaring, has contributed little to the real progress of the european dream and project. no matter how far you go, you'll never get there. we're on the right track.
in writing. what is at stake in this election, too, is what the eu will be heading towards in the coming years. the current president of the commission, who is running for a new term, is a symbol of one of the possible courses: the eu represents the interests of the major economic groups. the eu is a result of bureaucratic and anti-democratic functioning; of political and ideological conservatism; of the accentuation and institutionalization of deep inequalities and of social, regional and national relations; of militarism and external interventionism; of the institutionalization of neoliberalism as a single acceptable economic system. but this is not, and never has been, the only possible course. the opposite of this is a social europe of the workers and the people. an eu that values democracy in its participatory aspect, not by reducing it to the formal representative sphere. an eu that respects the will of the people and the decisions they democratically express. it defends public services and workers' rights as essential instruments for social development and cohesion. an eu of free, sovereign and equal states, which defends and promotes the protection of nature, peace and cooperation between peoples.
the statement which mr barroso has just made as president-in-office of the commission is a reaffirmation of the fundamental pillars of the european union as we know it, of a capitalist, federalist and militarist european integration which the treaties of maastricht and nice enshrined and which the draft treaty of lisbon seeks to deepen. if there were any doubts, here are his statements on the importance of the draft treaty of lisbon, in continuing, moreover, the anti-democratic pressures of the european leaders, and which he has also accompanied, on the people of ireland, who are obliged to hold a new referendum on 2 october. even if it now tries to promise some amendments to the serious violations of social and labour rights which the european commission, of which it is still president, carried out in the previous mandate, it has never gone to the bottom of the issues or to the causes of the current crisis of capitalism that we are experiencing. in practice, he wants to continue the same policy which gives priority to free competition, militarism and the interests of economic and financial groups, particularly the most powerful countries, as was evident when he said that 'we are the champions of globalisation'.
in writing. if there is a reality that no one questions at the level of party representation, it is the existence of a conjunctural crisis situation, which affects countries and makes it difficult for governments to take decisions. the commission's role in the fight against this crisis is not indifferent to the effectiveness of the european union, whether it is a legitimate commission with an elected president or a provisional commission with such a decisive decision that is always postponed. this evidence turns into mere rhetoric the exercise of all those who, not denying the evidence of such a crisis, and even invoking it repeatedly, still refuse and seek to prevent the election of josé manuel durão barroso as president of the european commission. this means that those who think and act in this way are little or not at all concerned with the effects of the crisis and all or almost all with the advantages of partisan tactics, which at least in these circumstances would be justified in avoiding.
we had the opportunity yesterday to discuss the problem of the free trade agreement with south korea, and the commissioner knows that she wants business organizations, and i want to tell her that in portugal i myself met with the various business organizations, which told me that they were very concerned about the provisions of this free trade agreement with south korea, but there are also great concerns at european level. there are also concerns on the part of trade union organizations and those who know the countries of the south, such as portugal and spain, and the areas where these sectors of industry predominate, know well how unemployment has worsened. in some counties, commissioner, it is already over 20%, particularly in the north of portugal. there are textile councils where unemployment is over 20%! and we fear that this situation will worsen in a country where poverty is already so important. so i ask you, specifically, what is going to be done... (the president cut the speaker off)
in portugal, banking profits grew by 18% in the first quarter of this year. more than the bank profits only increased unemployment. portugal is no exception, it is the example of a failed promise, the one made by the g20, which was that we would solve this crisis with a new economic and world order. that is not true, 50 million new unemployed and 200 million new poor prove that it is not so. that is why i suggest to the commission and to minister malmström that they deal with bonuses, hedge funds, deal with this, but above all deal with what we have not talked about here, the end of offshore companies, tax havens, the tax on financial transactions, the end of banking secrecy. do anything that shows if you want people to believe it.
in writing. - president barroso has put europe at the forefront of the global fight against climate change. the eu is the only bloc at international level with a clear and coherent negotiating position for the copenhagen conference. the political guidelines for the next commission presented by president barroso present an ambitious and modern vision for europe, with the fight against climate change and the areas of the knowledge triangle at its core. the challenges we face are complex and the responses must necessarily be holistic. president barroso therefore proposes a coordinated and convergent approach to the lisbon strategy, energy and climate policy and social policy for the period after 2010. new sources of growth and social cohesion are proposed based on a new industrial strategy for europe, a modern service sector and a dynamic rural economy. president barroso thus gives priority to the real economy and its modernisation based on scientific research, technological development, innovation and the principles of sustainability. the commission, led by president barroso, in partnership with the european parliament and the council, will contribute to a prosperous, sustainable and socially advanced european union.
in writing. - it is with pleasure that, as a portuguese member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the re-election of josé manuel durão barroso as president of the european commission. i believe that your performance during the previous mandate, which was marked by so many political, financial and social difficulties, and the experience gained in those roles, justified the commitment of the governments and the renewed confidence of this house. i deplore the many attempts - not all of them clear or serious - to prevent the success of this application and i note that they have failed not only because of the lack of a credible alternative but also because of the stupidity of the arguments which supported them. i regret that colleagues in my own country have not resisted this easy and inconsequential way. i hope that the second barroso commission will be able to combine 'the swing of the wings' with technical competence and, in respecting and effectively applying the principle of subsidiarity, opt for the certainty and firmness of the small steps advocated by jean monnet, rather than the accelerated pace which, while so glaring, has contributed little to the real progress of the european dream and project. no matter how far you go, you'll never get there. we're on the right track.
in writing. - i welcome this vote which re-elects dr josé manuel durão barroso as president of the european commission. portugal is proud to have a portuguese, with recognized competence and quality, such as dr josé manuel durão barroso, at the head of the european commission. it is a matter of great pride to note the merit of his work during the first term, from 2004 to 2009. this merit was recognized by the european parliament in this vote. in fact, the majority achieved is very significant and exceeds the one required by the treaty of lisbon. over the past five years, dr josé manuel barroso has demonstrated strong global leadership. the energy-climate dossier, the services directive, the chemicals regulation are just a few examples of success and leadership. he was also a leader in finding solutions and putting forward concrete proposals to resolve the economic crisis which still affects us. the european parliament has just given a signal that europe is strong, that it has a strong leader and that it can therefore move forward with confidence and hope towards a more prosperous and more united europe.
in writing. - the political guidelines for the next commission term, now presented, are clear as to the intention of its president to continue the main lines of the guidelines developed in the mandate which is now ending. these are the guidelines at the root of the deep economic and social crisis we are experiencing and whose dramatic consequences - unemployment, inequality, poverty and exclusion - have fallen mercilessly on the workers and peoples of europe. in portugal, the consequences of implementing the policies made possible by these guidelines have been the destruction or outright weakening of essential productive sectors - agriculture, fisheries and industry; the attack on workers' rights, the devaluation of wages and the corresponding increase in unemployment and precarious work; inequality in the distribution of incomes, the divergence from the eu average is now evident; the failure of the policies of deregulation, liberalization and privatisation of key sectors, dismantling public services and commodifying essential aspects of our collective existence. to insist on these guidelines is to insist on the concentration of wealth, on divergence rather than convergence, is to anticipate new and heavy eruptions of a latent systemic crisis in the nearer than distant future.
in writing. - the work carried out by president barroso over the past five years has been marked by a great deal of pragmatism, seriousness and firmness in pursuing europe's highest interests. the global leadership in the fight against climate change, the sense of opportunity in bringing europeans closer to the oceans through the launch of the new european maritime policy and the ability to generate consensus around the financial perspectives in a europe of 27 are some of the examples that justify his continuity at the head of the european commission. economic growth, the focus on innovation and people's skills, and the fight against unemployment are key pillars for the continuation of the process of european integration, and they are also durão barroso's priorities for the future. at a time when the world economic and financial situation is not the best, europe needs a strong leader capable of giving life to the european project. i believe, for the above reasons and more, that mr barroso is the ideal president to lead the eu's destiny in the next term.
in writing. − a strong and ambitious european commission presidency is essential if europe is to regain its position as a world leader in seeking a balance between economic and political objectives and social and territorial cohesion. priorities must be set in a pragmatic way, without neglecting the values that are at the origin of the european project. we have a number of challenges ahead of us, such as the reform of the community budget, which europe must tackle by showing that it is capable of defining the global agenda on a number of issues such as the fight against climate change and the regulation of financial markets. at a time when unemployment is high in several member states, a sustainable way out of the current economic and social crisis must be sought. this objective must unite the member states on the basis of the principle of solidarity and the strengthening of the european single market. i believe that josé manuel durão barroso has the qualities that will enable him to continue to meet the expectations we have placed on him with success, and i consider it a matter of pride for portugal to hold this office, and i understand that it is an advantage for a small, isolated, remote and ultraperipheral region like madeira to have someone in the commission who knows its reality in depth, so i support his re-nomination as president of the european commission.
in writing. - unfortunately, extreme drought and forest fires have increased both in frequency and in extent in southern europe. the damage caused is enormous, both in terms of loss of human life (11 people died this summer alone), and in terms of reduced economic activity and environmental degradation, in particular by contributing to the acceleration of desertification, in which in the last decade some 400 000 hectares of european forest have been disappearing every year. climate change is contributing to the increase in natural disasters, but many cases remain unpredictable or have criminal origins. this is why scientific research needs to be developed in order to improve risk assessment mechanisms, prevention systems and the means of combating this phenomenon, and to provide the necessary financial resources. we need a european strategy for dealing with natural disasters and greater interoperability and coordination between the various community instruments. member states should strengthen cooperation and coordination in order to ensure solidarity and the availability of additional resources for rapid mobilisation in response to these disasters. i recommend that the presidency of the council urgently take a decision on the regulation for the new solidarity fund, in order to increase transparency and make it more flexible to mobilise it in an emergency.
in writing. − southern europe has been hit by catastrophes (drought and fires) that have affected human lives, local economies and ecosystems and have contributed to the progressive desertification of large areas that were once populated, worked and cared for. more than a problem of this or that country, this issue and its serious consequences have already assumed a transnational character and clearly deserve a european response. as i have said before, the european union will win if it remains united even in the face of adversity and if it is able to mobilise means such as the solidarity fund, systems and methods capable of stopping the causes and mitigating the consequences of these scourges and of giving them a flexible, prompt and appropriate response. in addition to the european commission - which should take a leading role in finding solutions and applying best practices - the entire forestry sector should be called upon to share knowledge, define solutions and identify ways to contribute to a diversification of forest-related activities. a portuguese children's song says that a tree is a friend. the european union must repay this friendship and thus defend the future of the rural world.
in writing. the reason for our vote in favour is the need for effective solidarity and the immediate mobilization of financial resources to deal with the dramatic social and environmental situation in the areas affected by the fires this summer and their populations. however, we believe that the resolution should place greater emphasis on the effects of some of the community policies, in particular the common agricultural policy, which promote the abandonment of land and production systems, and on activities which contribute to a preventive approach to the problem of fires. the consequences of the cap, particularly in countries such as portugal, are now among the underlying causes of the fires which, year after year, devastate vast areas of the territory. we also believe that the possible and desirable cooperation between member states in combating forest fires should not be used to open the way to the subtraction of important elements of the sovereignty of each state, in particular with regard to civil protection and measures of control and intervention in the territory.
in writing. - as a result of reforestation by the regional government, together with initiatives by nature protection associations, recent studies show that the madeiran forest has grown by almost 5 000 hectares in the last 36 years, a fact all the more remarkable because it is contrary to the national trend. this invaluable heritage must be protected and, if we are to be prepared to respond to fires, i think it is essential to have a balanced allocation of resources between means of fire prevention, detection and suppression. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that this policy can be promoted at european level through a strategy of solidarity which seeks to coordinate the response to fires and to prevent risky behaviour effectively. with a special focus on the outermost regions, this approach should involve both public authorities and forest land owners and focus on clearing forests, planting indigenous species and rural re-population. criminal behaviour should also be adequately punished at national level. the flexibility of procedures associated with the use of existing or new structural funds, such as the eu solidarity fund, will allow for a faster response to the population affected by the loss of agricultural land, housing and livestock following fires and other disasters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are protected. what does this mean? does that mean that if i have a cinema in vilnius and i want to put up a poster for the movie "brokeback mountain", i can't do that? does it mean that if i give a lecture on homosexuality in a public place, in a theater or in a university in lithuania, i can't do it? does this mean that i can, as has already been discussed in the lithuanian parliament, pay a fine of up to eur 1 500 or do one month of community service, in accordance with the amendments to the penal code which are currently being debated in lithuania? for example, can a tv program show a gay couple who are happy or should it only show one who is unhappy? ladies and gentlemen, there was a date that surprised me in the adoption of these amendments to the law on the protection of minors in lithuania: was dated july 14, 2009. the 14th of july is, of course, the day on which we meet here for the first time in this 7th parliament and it is also the day which marks the 220th anniversary of our european principles, principles of the right to the pursuit of happiness, principles of freedom of expression and now even the principle of freedom of assembly which is also at risk because more recently, also in the lithuanian parliament, the possibility of preventing events such as gay pride marches was discussed. well, if we gathered here on this day, july 14, 2009, for the first time, it's because we have a duty, i would say a sacred duty to defend these values, and it's these values that are at stake. we know how these things start, we also always know where they end. what are we gonna do next? appoint a committee to see what is the disclosure or non-disclosure of homosexuality? where, in books, in theaters, in movies, in advertising? vilnius is one of the european capitals of culture this year, with great merit and certainly with great joy on the part of all europeans. but being european capital of culture also brings responsibilities, the responsibilities of bringing european culture for the best of reasons and not being seen this year for the worst of reasons. i therefore call for a vote in favour of our resolution and for the fundamental rights agency to give an opinion on this very serious matter. that is certainly the least that the members of this house can ask for.
on behalf of the s-d group commissioner, the commission and the council have been slow to react to the deep crisis affecting the sector. we all agree with that. the dramatic situation in which we find ourselves calls for swift and decisive action, or else we shall be witnessing the ruin of many thousands of farmers throughout europe. my group has made a great effort to reach the compromise contained in the resolution we are discussing here today. i hope that the proposals deserve your attention, commissioner, because only by acting simultaneously to reduce supply and stimulate demand is it possible to rebalance the market and bring prices to profitable levels for producers. i regret that the undertaking did not include the temporary suspension of the increase in quotas or the introduction of a temporary premium for the reduction in production. however, the measures we are proposing make a good contribution to overcoming the crisis more quickly. it is up to you, madam commissioner, to follow up on this.
i am sorry that the commissioner has not gone to the bottom of the matter, has not recognised the need to review the decisions taken on the abolition of milk quotas and, on the contrary, wants to continue deregulation of the sector against farmers. we therefore insist on the need to maintain the quota system, albeit with adjustments, adapted to the needs of each country, including the cancellation of the 1% annual increase until 2015. does he not think that, at a time of such a serious crisis in the dairy sector, more important than deregulation of the sector and the liberalisation of international trade is the defence of agriculture and the dairy sector in the member states, with a view to promoting the rural world and employment with rights? does he not think it essential to create at community level an extraordinary fund for the support of the dairy sector, with a focus on the producers and the countries most affected, and to define new aid for milk and meat production? i consider it necessary.
in writing. i come from an or, the azores, where milk production is the economic, social and environmental pillar. in the last few weeks we have been talking to the producers, their organisations and the processing industries. they all agree. it is crucial that the commission gives a more effective, global response, urgently, to deal with the current situation. the financial flows are stopping in the sector. it is of the utmost importance that the ors are given particular attention by the eu and included in its responses to mitigate the effects of the current crisis. it is the opinion of all that we must stop the increase in quotas. in an unbalanced market with surpluses, any country that increases its production harms all the others. they also believe that we should continue to maintain quotas as a mechanism for regulating supply and stabilising their activity. in the current context of full liberalisation, it is urgent to study its social, environmental and economic effects in these regions and to devise specific measures to prevent the collapse of this activity responsible for our beautiful landscapes, the quality of our environment and our rural environment and the progress and economic convergence we have achieved.
mr president, i have been listening to you very carefully and i would just like to raise three questions: the first is what are we talking about, after all, when we talk about energy security and when we talk about energy? are we talking about the people, the people who we have to guarantee equal access to energy and ensure that they do not run out of energy during the winter, are we talking about the power relations between great powers after all, or, worse than that, are we using energy security and these projects, like nabucco or desertec, as an excuse to send messages to other regions of the world or to other countries? if it's to send messages, what moral authority do we have to do it? the second point i would like to make is that whenever we speak against non-transparent movements of foreign entities within the european market, we ask the commission to take immediate action. i would like to know how far this request of ours is from the non-transparent movements within the european market by the europeans themselves and, to conclude, mr president, a third note, i just think that we have all lost a great opportunity to have a medium- and long-term policy, we have stayed for the short term and we have, once again, strengthened the interests of the internal market and of the large industries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation concerning the 2009 and 2010 intervention periods for butter and skimmed milk powder because i consider that these measures constitute the continuation of a positive measure, with immediate effect, in the regulation of the surplus supply affecting the milk and milk products market. the fall in prices on the world market for milk and milk products over the last 12 months was caused by the general increase in production and the fall in world demand due to the economic and financial crisis, which justifies the continuation of public intervention for butter and milk powder.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the lithuanian law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, as i believe that the law adopted by the lithuanian parliament on 14 july 2009 prohibiting 'the direct dissemination to minors of public information promoting homosexual, bisexual or polygamous relationships' because it has 'a harmful effect on the development of minors' should be urgently reviewed. in accordance with the principles of the european union, all forms of discrimination and in particular discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation should be eliminated and the fundamental rights agency should therefore issue an opinion on the law in question and its amendments in the light of the eu treaties and community law.
in writing. i supported and voted in favour of amendment no 28 to this resolution which called on the commission and the member states to take immediate additional measures to intervene on the current level of community production by means of a temporary freeze on the quota increases decided upon during the last reforms of the common agricultural policy, because this was in the interests of all portuguese milk producers and, in particular, had the support of azorean milk producers. we therefore regret that this amendment did not have the support of the majority of members of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the crisis in the milk sector, as i believe that urgent measures are needed to overcome the deep crisis in the sector, in particular by stimulating demand and bringing the market back into balance. it is regrettable, however, that the compromise reached in the european parliament does not include the temporary suspension of the increase in quotas or other measures to reduce production, which would be very important in supporting european farmers in coping with this crisis.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: stabilisation of the milk and milk products market will not be achieved by single measures, such as not increasing quotas, designed to mitigate the immediate and short-term effects of this crisis. on the contrary, medium- and long-term solutions must be considered and the causes of the poor functioning of this market and the best ways of maintaining production in a sustainable way, without neglecting the right of consumers to a fair price, must be assessed. i would point out in this connection the particularly fragile competitive situation of the outermost regions, such as the azores, which are heavily concentrated on dairy farming, and i regret the lack of sensitivity on the part of the european commission and, in the national case, the poor management of this process by the portuguese government. in times of crisis, the capacity of our governments to act and defend national interests is particularly relevant. unfortunately, that was not the case. i would like to highlight the success of the amendments which i have co-authored and which advocate increasing de minimis payments. it's not the ideal solution, but it's a useful contribution.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the resolution, although i consider it insufficient. at the moment, to stabilise prices, it is urgent to withdraw the 2% annual bonus above quota. it is also necessary to continue the milk quota system after 2015 or to replace it by another regulatory mechanism. it is imperative to adjust milk production to european domestic demand by ensuring a fair price for its production. the commission is proposing to set up a european observatory to help monitor and regulate the market from production to distribution.
in writing. the resolution adopted contains positive measures which are necessary in the current context of the deep crisis in the sector. that is why we voted in favour. however, these are only one-off measures which do not solve the underlying problems of the sector, in particular of small and medium-sized producers, for whom the situation is expected to worsen in the future, given the announced intention to abolish milk quotas. the fight that the dairy farmers are waging, beyond their immediate aims - to sell their produce at prices that will ensure their survival - also has a wider meaning and scope, which is linked to the kind of agriculture we want in the future. a neoliberal model of agriculture, which promotes the flooding of the market with products from countries with greater productive capacity, which promotes intensive production in some countries and agricultural abandonment and food dependence in others, must be opposed by a model based on the concept of food sovereignty and food security, on the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way. a model in which public production control instruments - quotas, adapted to the needs of each country - are essential.
in writing. - europe is highly dependent on energy imports. to reduce energy dependence, action must be taken on energy efficiency, diversification of energy sources by increasingly using renewable sources, and diversification of countries of origin and transit. the consolidation of the internal energy market at european level is also very important for increasing energy security. the existence of an electricity network and a gas pipeline network covering the whole of europe should be a priority. in this respect, two of the projects included in the economic recovery plan are of great importance for portugal: the electricity link between portugal and spain, which will contribute to the consolidation of the iberian electricity market; and the link between spain and france, which will prevent the iberian peninsula from becoming an energy island. the commission and the council are asked to pay particular attention to encouraging the development of renewable energy projects in the southern european countries with great renewable potential. much of the alentejo region has the highest solar potential in europe as has been demonstrated by maps of solar radiation distribution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the external aspects of energy security because i believe that the creation of a genuine common energy policy will be decisive in ensuring the security of energy supply in the european union. however, a properly functioning internal energy market and diversification of energy sources will also be of great importance in preventing future crises and disruptions in energy supply. in this sense, i think that increased investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency should be a central element of european policies.
in writing. − the european union's energy dependence, the strategic need to reduce it and the challenges to the union's stability posed by this fragility are well known and widely discussed. my country has a level of dependence that is well above the european average, which shows the absolute failure of successive governments in this area and raises particular fears of a possible crisis in the energy markets. given the difficulties in relations with some of the main suppliers and the limits in the diversity of energy sources and the existence of insufficient supply capacity, i consider it important for all member states that the european union can act as a bloc in defence of common interests and is able to impose them in a very demanding negotiating context. i also believe that states cannot escape their own responsibilities and should opt for a variety of 'energy pathways' in which all the main alternatives, including nuclear, should be studied, evaluated without prejudice and put into practice when they prove useful, giving priority to the most efficient, safe and clean forms of production.
good afternoon, everybody. the murder of natalia estemirova was followed in this house with great emotion by all of us, since we learned of her abduction on the very day we first met and, only a few hours later, of her murder. it is something that cannot but move anyone in any part of the world where they are, and as my colleague cornelia ernst has already said, i firmly believe that the left must defend human rights defenders and human rights everywhere, regardless of the country in which they occur. the effects of these attacks, of this harassment of human rights activists in russia, are very worrying, they work as intimidation and will certainly be very traumatic for everyone who wants to defend human rights in russia and therefore they are a first layer of an offensive that then ends up deteriorating the entire human rights situation, in addition to the human rights of the activists themselves. so the effects of these murders are unpredictable, they're worrying. without a swift and effective judicial inquiry, without guarantees that the safety of human rights activists will be respected, the situation may indeed develop into a very worrying one. that is why i shall be very happy to vote in favour of this resolution and to follow its calls on the russian authorities to protect human rights activists. i come from portugal, the other end of europe, and i'm going to russia next week. i shall be going to the russian embassy tomorrow to get my visa, and i believe that relations between europe and russia are of the utmost importance and that europe owes a great deal to russia. the first thing that europe owes to russia is openness and clarity in defending the human rights and freedoms of our fellow european russians.
in writing. − the establishment of the special committee on the financial and economic crisis is essential as a body that analyses and assesses the coordination of actions taken by member states to support sustainable and qualitative growth. it is imperative to analyse and assess the scale of the social, economic and financial crisis, but also to propose measures to facilitate the long-term reconstruction of sound and stable financial markets that can support economic growth capable of combating unemployment and responding to demographic and climate challenges. the involvement of universities, representatives of the scientific community and researchers as strategic partners is essential. this partnership must be given a boost, as it will be decisive if we are to tackle the economic crisis and the short-term unemployment problems simultaneously and find long-term solutions to the problem of climate change through the development and use of clean energy.
in writing. − the establishment of the special committee on the financial and economic crisis could prove to be fundamental in preparing the future of the eu. this can be achieved not only by discussing and presenting measures but also by identifying mechanisms that can be put in place to prevent a similar situation from occurring in the near future. it is therefore essential to learn the lessons of this crisis by analysing its causes and consequences. it is also relevant to correct the failures of the financial system that led to the current situation by adopting better legislation, duly justified. we cannot risk creating such a tight regulatory environment that could lead to a delay in recovery, or to the eu becoming an unattractive financial market in a highly competitive environment. the commission may continue to be in place beyond the 12 months provided for, in order to allow for the monitoring and assessment of the measures to be taken in the context of the current crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to express, not only on behalf of the epp, as many members have already done, but in particular on behalf of the portuguese epp members, our great satisfaction with the result of the referendum in ireland. we believe that this clearly strengthens the prospects for the development and evolution of the european union and creates the conditions for a new stage. we would naturally like to congratulate all those who contributed to the treaty of lisbon, in particular the commission and the commissioner present here and, of course, the portuguese presidency of the european union, which played a very important role here, and therefore we would also like to say that we are pleased to note that, despite all these events and while we are still awaiting the position of the czech republic, it will be with great joy that the portuguese will see the name of their capital linked to a decisive step in the evolution of the european union and i would like to say that we can also count on another flag in this perspective, which will also always be a flag of the portuguese meps of the epp, which is the flag of the national parliaments. we believe that the treaty of lisbon is a decisive step towards incorporating the presence of national parliaments into european democracy. and so we believe that this dimension, which is the most important dimension of democracy, which is the representative dimension and not, as we sometimes hear in this house, the referendum dimension, that what is fundamental and essential in democracy is representation and not direct voting, the lisbon treaty is also a great step towards increasing the participation of national representative democracies in the european process. we are therefore very pleased with this decision of the irish people.
the victory of the 'yes' in ireland is good news for europe and for me as a portuguese and a staunch europeanist. it represents the victory of common sense and rationality over demagogy and manipulation. the irish have made it clear that they have faith in the european project. the main obstacle to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has been overcome with the victory of the 'yes' vote. president klaus has no excuse and must respect democracy and the parliament which elected him and which has already approved the treaty of lisbon. the treaty of lisbon opened a new cycle. the european union will be more efficient in decision-making and more effective in external relations. more democratic and more transparent, closer to the citizens and less dependent on governments. the new treaty will make the european union better able to combat climate change and respond to the challenges of globalisation.
i am glad that the irish people voted yes in the referendum on the treaty of lisbon last sunday. it is hoped that the long ordeal of ratification of the treaty will finally come to an end. i am sure that the czech republic will also ratify the treaty. it would be incomprehensible, it would be unacceptable, if the future of europe were to be hampered, blocked, i would say, by a personal opinion and in total disregard, in total disagreement with the majority of its parliament. we all want the institutional impasse in which we find ourselves, which has lasted for almost 10 years, to finally come to an end. i therefore thank the irish people, because the will they have expressed gives us hope for a stronger, more prosperous, more united europe and at the same time adds the responsibility, the obligation of all european institutions to act in such a way as not to betray that same will. in fact, this is the wish of the vast majority of european citizens. i hope that we can all live up to the expectations of a europe that is increasingly leading, more cohesive and more dynamic in the world of democratic values, social and fundamental rights, economic growth and, at the same time, environmental protection.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a brief word to welcome the historic and sweeping result of the referendum in ireland and to highlight the decisive role that fine gael and its leader and future prime minister of ireland, enda kenny, have played in taking the lead in this process. the need to bring the european union much closer to its citizens became clear. they are the main beneficiaries of all the union's action. it is essential that everyone is aware of the impact and benefits that europe has in our daily lives. europe is our living space. what is good for europe is good for each member state, is good for its citizens. this is certainly the case with the treaty of lisbon. this treaty makes it much clearer that one can be both a proud and committed national and a staunch supporter of the european project. and the european union, after too long a debate on its organisation and functioning, will be able to concentrate much more, and with new and much more effective instruments, on the real problems facing europeans: competitiveness, growth and employment. i would like to conclude, mr president, madam minister, with a proposal for future generations. given the lack of information on the values, competences, objectives and way of working of the european union, the european parliament should propose, at the end of compulsory schooling in each member state, a new compulsory european studies discipline. in an objective, real and concrete way, young europeans will know what our principles are, who we are, what we do and where we want to go. it is by learning from a young age that they will understand, throughout their lives, the potential and the enormous usefulness of the european identity of this unique project of voluntary sharing of sovereignty on a continental scale.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, i hope that with the result of last friday's vote europe will be able to emerge from a crisis concerning the treaties and that it will thus be possible to have a stable institutional body appropriate to an organisation of 27 states, quite different from the one that was the basis of nice. the fact is, mr president, that a treaty is not a work of art, a legal work, which can be admired. it has to be useful, it has to have an effect. and that is why, as important as the debate on, for example, who will be president of the council is politically, it is more important that the ratification process be completed and that the treaty actually enter into force. the result in ireland makes it clear that europe is not built against the people. whether through representation or through referenda, this approximation is real. and, by the way, it is important to point out that, as democratic as it is, voting no is voting yes. and some seem to confuse that very reality. i hope that with the ratification of ireland, the czech republic and poland, a situation of de facto solidarity between the states can be created. and that we move towards a situation in which this great step is joined by the sequence of what is schuman's europe: a europe made of small steps, made of everyday things and, fundamentally, of the enlargement of european ideals.
the outcome of the referendum in ireland on the treaty of lisbon is a key step in the construction of europe and in strengthening europe's role. the lisbon treaty allows the eu to step up its role in energy, climate change, science and cooperation with developing countries. with the lisbon treaty, the fight against climate change becomes a specific objective of eu environmental policy, recognising that the eu has a leading role at international level in the fight against climate change. for the first time, a chapter on energy will be included, setting the eu's policy objectives of ensuring energy security, promoting energy efficiency and developing renewable energy. the lisbon treaty lays the foundations for the creation of the european research area, strengthening european action in an area that is key to economic growth and employment. the lisbon treaty introduces, for the first time, a specific legal basis for humanitarian aid and defines poverty reduction and eradication in developing countries as the main objective of eu development cooperation policy.
the outcome of the second referendum on the treaty of lisbon in ireland does not erase the anti-democratic nature of a process which, from the outset, has been disrespectful of the will of the people. we will not let the 'no' of the french and dutch peoples to the 'constitutional treaty' and the deception of translating it into the treaty of lisbon be forgotten. history will also record the disregard for the 'no' vote of the irish people in the first referendum and the unacceptable blackmail and interference that followed, culminating in a campaign of colossal proportions that included the shameless use of irish state and european union resources. neither the ratification process nor the content of this treaty legitimises the continuation of policies which are at the root of the serious economic and social crisis in the eu, particularly in portugal, and which this treaty will deepen. we will continue with unwavering determination to combat neoliberalism, federalism and militarism in the european union. we will continue with great confidence the struggle for another europe, for the workers and the peoples, and against the renewed threats to social and labour rights, democracy, sovereignty, peace and cooperation, with which we are now confronted.
mr president, there are statements of optimism about the beginning of the end of the crisis. unfortunately, these statements are daily contradicted by reality. the situation in the north of portugal is illustrative of this. in the district of braga alone, at least ten companies have closed in recent weeks, throwing more than three hundred workers into unemployment. many others are in danger of closing. the situation is particularly serious in the textile and clothing sector, one of the sectors in the european union most affected by the increasing liberalization of world trade. in the face of this dramatic situation, solutions other than the political guidelines which gave rise to it are urgently needed. it is urgent to apply safeguard measures, in particular in categories to be indicated by the member states, to enable employment and the activity of these enterprises to be maintained and promoted, and to make progress in the creation - a subject which has already been the subject of a resolution in this parliament - of a community programme to support the textile sector with adequate resources, especially for the most disadvantaged regions which are dependent on this sector.
in portugal, prisa, a spanish company which is a known supporter of the socialist party and a majority shareholder in a television channel, tvi, ordered the closure of the friday evening television news about three or four weeks ago. i would like to ask you, mr president, whether your group has the same intention of studying what is happening in other countries or whether it is just looking for political chicanery like the one we are witnessing this morning.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the böge report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy, as i believe that the european union must respond as quickly as possible to the request for assistance made by italy in order to mitigate the dramatic consequences of the earthquake that struck the abruzzi region of italy in april 2009, killing 300 people and causing considerable material damage.
in writing. - as i have said before, i believe that solidarity between the member states of the european union, and in particular european support for states affected by disasters, is a clear sign that the european union is no longer just a free trade area. by adopting special aid instruments such as the european union solidarity fund, the community has shown that it is able to stand united in the face of adversity, in situations of particular human and material need. i cannot but welcome this and support once again the mobilisation of this fund, this time to help the victims of the earthquake that struck the abruzzi region of italy in april 2009. i reiterate my wish that the solidarity fund should not be used too often - that would mean that europe would not suffer many serious emergencies - but i renew my wish that its structure and availability should be progressively improved and frequently assessed, so that it can meet any real needs in a rapid and non-bureaucratic way.
in writing. the text approves the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy following the earthquake in april last, which killed 300 people and caused considerable material damage. the total direct damage caused by the earthquake is estimated at more than eur 10 billion and has been considered, according to the fund's intervention criteria, as a 'major natural disaster' and as such falls within the main scope of the legal basis. the commission is therefore proposing to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to the tune of eur 493 771 159. we would point out that the proposal for a revision of the regulation establishing the fund, which was put forward by the commission and on which the ep voted with our critical vote in may 2006, is still pending in the council. we believe that it is important, among other things, to safeguard the continued eligibility of regional disasters and the possibility of recognizing the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters and adapting the fund - in terms of deadlines and eligible actions - to the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fires.
in writing. - i consider it essential to increase the efficiency of criminal proceedings, while ensuring the proper administration of justice. this framework decision will contribute to the prevention and resolution of conflicts of jurisdiction, ensure that the court before which proceedings are brought is the most appropriate and bring greater transparency and objectivity to the choice of criminal jurisdiction in situations where the matter of fact falls within the jurisdiction of more than one member state. i hope that this will prevent parallel and unnecessary criminal proceedings, without however leading to an increase in red tape when it comes to cases where more appropriate options are readily available, such as more flexible instruments or agreements already made by the member states, which should prevail. the existence of situations where the same persons may be subject to parallel criminal proceedings, relating to the same facts and in different member states, may lead to violations of the ne bis in idem principle, which should be applied effectively throughout the european judicial area. i also support greater involvement of eurojust from the very beginning of the process.
in writing. − coordinated action by the member states of the european union in preventing and resolving conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings is essential for more effective justice in the conduct of such proceedings. thus, the concentration of a criminal case affecting several jurisdictions in a single member state is desirable, on the basis of objective criteria and the necessary transparency, not only to avoid wasting time and resources, but also because of the costs involved and the fact that greater coherence and efficiency in the conduct of the case are essential. direct contact between the competent national authorities, as soon as possible, is therefore essential to determine the competent court and the respective transmission of the case. in this context, it is important to recall the rights of the accused throughout the criminal proceedings, since one of the fundamental objectives of the european union is to offer its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders.
in writing. - the reason for our vote against is the strengthening of the role of eurojust which this report seeks to enshrine. the council's proposal for a framework decision better safeguarded the fairness of the decisions taken from a legal point of view. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the principle of ne bis in idem is respected, namely that a person is not tried twice in the same criminal proceedings. the rapporteur acknowledged this, but the amendments reinforce the role of eurojust in matters which are the exclusive responsibility of the member states. by this means, and by its early intervention in the proceedings, eurojust is placed in a position of oversight over the member states' instances, and is deprived of the possibility of reaching an agreement as to who has jurisdiction over the proceedings. we cannot accept that all this should be done merely on the grounds of 'waste of time and waste of resources'. the transfer of powers from the states to the eu in the field of justice, as in other matters, impoverishes its sovereignty and has shown itself to be not in the interests of citizens in defending their rights, freedoms and guarantees. this is, in our view, another example of that.
in writing. − the establishment of the special committee on the financial and economic crisis could prove to be fundamental in preparing the future of the eu. the experience of its members is essential for the successful pursuit of the work and proposals to be presented by this special committee. i believe that the list of members includes members of this house of repute and with considerable experience in the various areas affected by the current crisis. they can thus contribute to the discussion and presentation of relevant measures to correct the failures of the financial system that led to the current situation, and will be of great value in preparing for the possible adoption of future and better duly justified legislation. i also believe that this commission may have to remain beyond the 12 months provided for, and its composition may be revised, so as to allow for monitoring and evaluation of the measures to be taken in the context of the current crisis.
in writing. - i welcome the agreements reached at the g20 summit in pittsburgh. i'm sure they're a step in the right direction. the immediate priorities should be to ensure sound and sustainable growth of the real economy, to ensure the proper functioning of the capital and credit markets, to support and promote employment and to protect people from the negative impact of the crisis, with particular attention to the poorest and most vulnerable. the rapid increases in public debt and budget deficits are worrying. the importance of establishing long-term sustainable public finances should be reinforced in order to avoid burdening future generations. however, i regret the lack of an assessment of the main regulatory and supervisory failures that caused the financial crisis. it is a priority to understand what has happened at this level, and thus to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.
in writing. − the g20 committed to reaching an agreement in copenhagen at cop15 and it is essential that the eu continues to take a leading role in the negotiations in order to establish an ambitious and equitable pact. the copenhagen agreement can boost economic growth by promoting clean technologies and securing new sustainable jobs in both industrialized and developing countries. a consensus on financing and technical support for clean and renewable energy and energy efficiency in developing countries is essential to reaching a solid agreement in copenhagen. it is important to define a concrete model in order to maximise the chances of concluding the agreement in copenhagen. the international agreement should ensure collective reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in line with the recommendations of the 4th assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (25-40% by 2020, relative to 1990) and should establish a long-term reduction for the eu and other industrialised countries of at least 80% by 2050, relative to 1990.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the g20 summit in pittsburgh on 24 and 25 september 2009, as i believe that the current economic difficulties should be used as an opportunity to further the objectives of the lisbon strategy and to reiterate the commitment to combat unemployment and climate change, as well as to create a european strategy that will result in a sustainable long-term economic recovery. i regret, however, that the proposal for a tobin tax on financial transactions was not adopted, as it would limit excessive speculation and promote financial stability and long-term investment.
in writing. − in the context of a global economic crisis with serious social consequences, the decisions taken by the g20 are of great importance. it is through a coordinated effort among the g20 members that we can build a financial system that will contribute to more sustainable and competitive economic development in the future, so as to avoid crises like the one we are experiencing. we cannot, as the european union, act in isolation, or else we will adopt rules which are not competitive with other countries and which will put the european economy at a disadvantage in the globalised world in which we live.
in writing. - i welcome the agreements reached at the g20 summit in pittsburgh. as capital has become more global, action to combat and prevent new crises requires the utmost international cooperation. i welcome agreements aimed at economic growth, employment promotion and market regulation, and hope that these objectives will be achieved in a 'territorially extended' way. the use of the financial transaction tax, which helps to control excessive speculation and encourages long-term investment, makes sense only if it is applied on a global scale.
in writing. the resolution adopted today follows the line taken by several bodies of the european union, including the ep, in their attempt to conceal the real causes of the economic and social crisis and, by exploiting it, to accelerate and promote the continuation and deepening of the policies which have provoked it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. what is needed, and what the resolution ignores, is the need to break with the neo-liberal policies of liberalization and privatization of services, of attack on workers' rights and of destruction of the productive apparatus, policies which are responsible for worsening living conditions, indebtedness, the increase in unemployment, precariousness and poverty. what is needed is the appreciation of work and workers, the defence of the productive sectors and public services, the effective subordination of economic power to political power, the fight against and punishment of corruption and economic crime, and the end of tax havens.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to highlight the fact that the g20 meeting addressed such important issues as sustainable economic growth, employment and the possible phenomena of climate change that could endanger the habitability of our planet. these are global, topical issues, unanimously considered as fundamental to the european growth process. in this respect, i welcome the decision to maintain the stimulus for economic recovery and the clear commitment to a strategy capable of making the assumptions of the lisbon agenda viable, in particular the overall interest in implementing the 'global jobs pact' on the ground. in this respect, the urgency for the creation of an international counter-cyclical jobs fund, ambitious fiscal incentive packages to support job creation and retention, and strong social policies to support the most vulnerable groups should be reinforced.
in writing. - i would like to highlight and welcome the agreements reached at the g20 summit, which were unanimously considered as a step in the right direction. having discussed such important issues as the regulation and supervision of financial markets and the sustainability of public finances, i would like to place particular emphasis on the issue of sustainable economic growth and employment. i welcome the fact that the priorities agreed at the g20 are based on the idea that sustainable growth in the real economy will be the dynamo that will ensure not only job creation but also serve as a guarantee of protection for people from the negative impact of the crisis, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. i also welcome the commitment of the g20 leaders to tackle the international employment crisis by making employment promotion the central element of recovery plans. i am only sorry that no agreement has been reached at the g20 on the global fight against climate change.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to highlight the fact that the g20 meeting addressed such important issues as sustainable economic growth, employment and the possible phenomena of climate change that could endanger the habitability of our planet. these are global, topical issues, unanimously considered as fundamental to the european growth process. in this respect, i welcome the decision to maintain the stimulus for economic recovery and the clear commitment to a strategy capable of making the assumptions of the lisbon agenda viable, in particular the overall interest in implementing the 'global jobs pact' on the ground. in this respect, the urgency for the creation of an international counter-cyclical jobs fund, ambitious fiscal incentive packages to support job creation and retention, and strong social policies to support the most vulnerable groups should be reinforced.
in writing. − developing countries are severely affected by successive crises such as food and fuel crises and climate change, and are suffering deeply from the consequences of the financial crisis and economic recession. it is essential that the eu and its member states assume their responsibility as international actors by fulfilling their commitments on official development assistance and continue to contribute to the achievement of the mdgs. the eu has advanced the allocation of €8.8 billion for development aid, budget support and agricultural financing and proposed €500 million to support social expenditure in developing countries through the flex facility for the benefit of acp countries. it is important that budget support focuses on health, decent work, education, social services and green growth. the commission is asked to find new sources of financing to safeguard the european development fund (edf), and it is important that the edf be integrated into the community budget. there is also a need for greater coherence between eu policies in the areas of international trade, budgetary, climate change and development. development aid should give priority to: (the minutes were approved)
in writing. − although the current economic and financial crisis originated in the us, its consequences have been felt on a global scale, affecting europe and, more intensely, developing countries, either through human costs that push millions of people into extreme poverty or through the weakening of their already weak economies. it is urgent that all actors in official development assistance, in particular the bretton woods institutions, respond swiftly and effectively to this situation. it is also essential that the european union and its member states assume their responsibilities as frontline actors in development aid by fulfilling their international commitments to these countries, by urgently increasing to achieve the millennium development goals and by increasing the volume of official development assistance insufficient to respond to the collateral damage of this crisis in the developing countries. it is also particularly urgent on the eve of the copenhagen conference, when the eu and other international actors will articulate their policies on international trade, climate change, humanitarian aid and development. for all these reasons i support this resolution.
in writing. − the developing countries have been hit hard by the current economic and financial crisis and there is a fear of a sharp stagnation, or even a serious setback, in their growth and progress rates. the eu and its member states, which are major donors, cannot fail to take this into account and consider increasing aid to these countries, lest some of them fall irretrievably into poverty, which could lead to or exacerbate social and political conflicts and contribute to the insufficiency of regions which are trying to pacify and develop at great cost. this increase, which must be guided by flexibility, imagination, solidarity and common sense, cannot be separated from strict donor control over the use of aid, an effective 'traceability' of the amounts made available to the beneficiary countries, from their transfer to their final use. civil society and its parliaments should not be left out of this transparency effort, and the eu should encourage national debates on the destination of the aid received. but in the face of economic decline, europe cannot and must not close in on itself and ignore the burning problems that surround it.
regional disparities remain a challenge in the context of an enlarged european union. it is therefore essential that cohesion policy supports the least developed regions and member states. it is in this sense that we view with the greatest concern the recent amendment to the general regulation on the erdf and the cohesion fund proposed by the portuguese government to the european commission. this amendment provides for exceptions to the general rule of territorial eligibility of expenditure on operations with a spillover effect and on technical assistance, allowing funds for the convergence regions of north-central portugal, the alentejo and the azores to be implemented in the lisbon region. this amendment may constitute a serious breach of the principle of economic and social cohesion, which is an essential pillar of the european project.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. i am in favour of a schengen evaluation mechanism which improves the existing system and makes it more efficient, so as to ensure a transparent and coherent application of the schengen acquis. i am, however, disappointed by these proposals from the european commission. in substance, these proposals retain the rules for the first part of the mandate unchanged and, for the second part of the mandate, namely the assessment of how the schengen acquis is being applied by the member states already within schengen, they merely incorporate the recent improvements introduced in the existing assessment mechanism. the only innovation i welcome is the possibility of unannounced visits. these proposals transfer the overall role of the council in the evaluation mechanism to the commission, providing for very limited forms of cooperation with the member states and removing the european parliament from the whole process, without demonstrating the added value of these. i was also concerned that the evaluation mechanisms were being completely separated for each part of the mandate, which could jeopardise the efficiency and coherence of the system. different rules and assessment systems should not be imposed on those states which want to join schengen and those which have already done so. there are also problems in data protection. i will give you just three examples: firstly, the point on the security of consular premises is incomplete, because the premises of external companies, outsourcing, are not covered. secondly, the security requirements for the sis should also be introduced in the visa section. third, article 7 of the regulation should not only cover risk analysis but also audits and security inspection reports carried out by member states in order to comply with the rules introduced by the sis and vis legal instruments. in addition to the problems i have mentioned and the improvements that can be made, there is a fundamental problem, which is the role that has been reserved for the european parliament, which is an irrelevant role. the choice of legal basis made by the european commission is legitimate, according to our legal service. but it would also be possible to apply the codecision procedure to the proposal for a regulation. between the two possibilities there is only political will. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make use of them. we must not forget that we are talking about the security of the area of freedom, security and justice, which must involve all the member states and all the european institutions. therefore, codecision should be the procedure chosen. the position of the european parliament should not be merely adjective, but should correspond to its weight in the adoption of basic legislative instruments. i would like to end by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their support for this position of the european parliament and i would ask vice-president barrot, who has always shown respect for this parliament, to re-submit these proposals by introducing not only substantive improvements but also, as regards procedure, by giving the european parliament an appropriate role.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the schengen area is approaching its 20th year or is about 20 years old and the evaluation, or standing committee and then evaluation group, is 10 years old. it is therefore time to improve the evaluation procedures and to address the concerns about the schengen area. it is a pity that the commission, as this milestone approaches, has not done enough work and has not made enough progress in creating a more effective and comprehensive evaluation mechanism that could respond not only to the initial concerns of the first years of the schengen area: effectiveness and cohesion between member states and equality to a certain equivalence of procedures, but also to concerns on the one hand, of transparency, on the other hand, of control by citizens (democratic control) and, finally, concerns, which are very dear to this house, of respect for human rights. there are well-founded concerns that efficiency has been benefited at the expense of citizens' rights and it is time to address this gap. i also wanted to talk a little bit about codecision. at the moment, it is a test for the european commission and all those who have defended the treaty of lisbon, propagandizing its democratic virtues, to then live up to their words and lend more parliamentary and more democratic control to the schengen evaluation processes. i can only support the conclusions of the rapporteur, our colleague mr carlos coelho. i think it does a good service to european democracy in demanding that the commission get back to work on its proposals and give us something that is simpler, more effective, more transparent, more respectful of human rights and that gives more parliamentary and democratic control.
the rapporteur. - three final words. - what are they? first of all, i would like to thank the members who supported my report and the personal references they made to me during this debate and to vice-president barrot for his statement to us that he encourages the involvement of the european parliament as a co-legislator by making the most of the possibilities that come with the lisbon treaty. i know this doesn't come as a surprise to me. i know that this is the position that commissioner barrot has held for a long time, but it is good that he, as vice-president of the commission, has made this formal statement to us. secondly, to record something that commissioner barrot said when he said that there were difficult negotiations with the council. we also have this information and we understood that in this matter it would be difficult to do otherwise. we also expected the commission to look at parliament as a partner, a partner with a codecision role, because, as far as the european approach is concerned, both the commission and parliament are certainly identified with the idea that it cannot continue to be merely intergovernmental. and thirdly, to underline two things that i think will remain from this debate. the first to say there can be no break in coherence. there can be no two systems of assessment, there must be only one, both for new and existing ones. and the principle of mutual trust cannot be weakened. it has to be all-inclusive. there must be involvement of the member states in the evaluation process and there must be involvement of the european institutions. the european institutions are not just the commission, not just the council, but also this parliament, and that is why we are calling for codecision.
i would like to support the report by mr busuttil, who approves the european commission's initiative, and he says three simple things. firstly, by this decision, which makes it easier to move around, we are denying the idea that there is a strong europe. secondly, to say that we didn't open the doors in any way. we opened by following the rules, as vice president barrot recalled. the countries have come close to the rules and are in a position to get off the negative list, as he said. i think it is important that we have a european approach and that we cannot pick and choose countries, that is, accept some and not accept others. either you accept the european space or you do not. and finally, as simon busuttil and vice-president barrot have stressed, the guarantees of reciprocity in these agreements are essential. we cannot ask europe to open its doors to others if others do not open their doors to europe, and this is very well guaranteed in these agreements.
ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking vice-president barrot for his statement, although i am in an unfair position, because it would be good to hear the council's position as well. i note that it is easier to exercise parliamentary scrutiny over the commission than over the council. in december 2001, the european commission was given a mandate for the second generation of sis, which is expected to become operational in march 2007. the problems and delays were many. the new system isn't working yet. some predict that it will not be before 2012, others question the feasibility of the project. the delays are now not only in sis but also in vis, both projects developed by the same company. i must say i have confidence in vice president barrot. he is a man who has always shown in his political life his competence, seriousness and european vocation. we know that sis is a project that did not start, that you inherited when you accepted a change of portfolio at the request of president barroso. but there are clear responsibilities here for the services of the european commission and the company contracted to develop the central system. parliament has budgetary authority and we have the right and the duty to ask the european commission for explanations. why do we need sis ii? we need better controls at the external borders, we need more security, we need biometric data and we need the interlinking of alerts. two global technical tests, the so-called milestone tests, are planned, the first on 22 december and the second in the summer of 2010. the purpose of this first test is to verify the stable, reliable and effective operation of sis ii under operational conditions for a period of 72 hours and to verify that the vital core functionalities and data coherence function without any problems and interruptions. there are questions to ask. firstly, is there any risk that this test could be held in december this year? secondly, is it true that in order to reduce the risks, the possibility of reducing the level of requirements or even reducing the number of states that should participate is being considered? thirdly, can the incorporation of these new tests be considered as part of the annual contract with the company or will they be considered as additional requirements entailing extra costs? fourthly, did the detection of technical problems and errors lead to the hiring of additional services? what money was paid with these funds? fifthly, the delays and technical errors which led to the failure of the previous tests resulted in penalties being imposed on the contracting company. - has mr barrot already said what those penalties amounted to? sixthly, does the commission consider that if there is a switch-off to the implementation of an alternative solution, does this entail the termination of the contract with steria? if so, what are the implications for vis? and finally, madam president, the last question: is it true that bulgaria and romania have given up waiting for sis ii and are already planning to integrate it into sis 1?
mr president, the approach to the problem of climate change has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called 'market solutions'. fossil fuels now provide nearly 85 percent of the world's energy needs. a consistent approach to climate change must focus on reducing this dependence. on the contrary, the main instrument proposed by the european union to curb climate change, the carbon market, should not only not help to alleviate this dependence, but even constitute an obstacle to the necessary change in the energy paradigm. experience shows that trading in emission allowances has not led to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, quite the contrary. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the environmental problems facing mankind today are many and varied, so serious that they threaten the very existence of life on earth as we know it, but they will hardly find a solution within the framework of the irrational system that has generated it.
madam president, considering an action plan to support developing countries in the field of climate change is a matter of basic justice and equality: it is the countries most affected and those who have contributed least to the situation we are in. that is why we must go beyond a declaration of intent. to go beyond the declaration of intent is to be certain and serious about fundamental issues such as financing. as ambitious as the strategy is, if it does not have the funding issues defined, we will not have a concrete policy at all. the council is talking about 100 million euros by 2020. there are various estimates, there are also estimates that speak of the need for 120 billion euros a year to support developing countries, for every year that passes. and so we need our own resources and not just palliatives. it is therefore urgent to define how the financing will be carried out, who will finance it? it takes courage to take on this, to involve all the parties, but also to include the private sector and industry. or do we expect them to volunteer to contribute to this intervention as well?
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the european union should continue to take a leading role in the international negotiations towards an ambitious agreement in copenhagen. the agreement should be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibility. this principle should also apply to developing countries which, because of their different stages and circumstances, require differentiated measures adapted to their individual situations. all developing countries, except the least developed countries, should adopt national low-carbon development strategies. developing countries will face a cost of around €100 billion to mitigate their emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. part of the funding will come from the private sector, but international public funding will be needed in addition to official development assistance. it is urgent to define the architecture of this financing system, the source and the amounts of the financing, in order to secure an agreement in copenhagen. the kyoto protocol's clean development mechanism should also be reformed so that only projects that allow for additional reductions are eligible for funding. the economically more advanced developing countries and the economically more competitive sectors should be gradually excluded from this mechanism, and it should focus mainly on the poorest countries, in particular the african countries.
copenhagen is the great opportunity for a global agreement in good time. for the first time, there is an administration on the united states side that is committed to building solutions, and there are positive signs from other countries, for example, japan. but we need a new approach to climate change that takes into account its consequences on security, economic recovery, immigration and even the fight against terrorism. and let us not forget that climate change requires the contribution of science, technology and economics. the biggest obstacle to an agreement in copenhagen is the question of funding. there will be no agreement without financing for adaptation in developing countries. and it must be strengthened, commissioner, because the funding currently available is not enough. developed countries must lead by example, be ambitious in reducing their emissions by at least 30%, and help developing countries with funding and technology.
i am grateful for the clarifications provided by the european commission, but i would like to recall, as was clear during the debate, that the legal service of the european parliament, while recognising the legitimacy of the legal basis of the commission's initiative, also said that it was possible, on the basis of the treaty in force, that the european commission had taken the same initiative on the basis of a legal formula allowing co-decision for the european parliament. as this has not been the case, i propose that the initiative be returned to the committee on civil liberties so that the european commission can reconsider its initiative and, within the time limit set out in rule 56 of our rules of procedure, we can expect to receive in this parliament an initiative from the commission which respects codecision and which gives this european parliament the intervention it deserves in advocating greater security in the schengen area.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european community will be represented in the international renewable energy agency (irena). the international renewable energy agency aims to promote the uptake and sustainable use of all forms of renewable energy, taking into account their contribution to environmental conservation, climate protection, economic growth and social cohesion (including poverty reduction and sustainable development), access to and security of energy supply, and regional development and responsibility across generations. it is also part of the agency's objectives to provide technical, financial and policy advice to governments of developing countries, thus contributing to their transition to a low-carbon society. the use of renewable energy is precisely one of the objectives of the eu's climate and energy package. the agency will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this package, in particular the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in energy consumption to 20% by 2020.
in writing. - portugal is the sixth most energy dependent country in the eu-27, which is why investing in 'clean tech' is essential. i am advocating a national renewable energy project, with particular attention to wind energy, wave energy (taking into account the exceptional conditions of the portuguese coast), solar thermal and photovoltaic energy and microgeneration. i also support research and development of methods, technologies and strategies to enable the storage of surplus renewable energy. i am in favour of an energy policy which is in tune with economic challenges and social needs, and which at the same time promotes sustainable development, without being an environmental cost to be borne by future generations. it is precisely because i am constantly concerned about limiting our energy dependence and i am sure that the way forward is towards supporting and developing renewable energy that i welcome the fact that portugal is a founding member of the international renewable energy agency (irena). that is also why i support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation repealing certain obsolete council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy, as it is necessary to remove from the community acquis acts which have lost their relevance in order to improve the transparency and legal certainty of community legislation, with a view to the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making of the european parliament, the council and the commission. this was recently reaffirmed in the commission communication 'a simplified cap for europe - a success for all', for which i am responsible for the report to the european parliament on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists and democrats. in the context of this strategy, it is therefore appropriate to delete from existing legislation acts which have ceased to produce real effects.
- whereas it is essential that all those involved in the common agricultural policy (cap) are aware of the legal framework in force and the rules applicable at any given time; recognising that legal certainty requires that obsolete acts should not remain in force indefinitely in the community legal order; believing that, given the fundamental importance of the cap for the governments and citizens of the union, it should be as simple and clear as possible as regards its application and the rules in force; i support the commission's proposal to repeal obsolete acts in the field of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report authorizing portugal to reduce the excise duty rates on liqueurs, spirits and rum produced and consumed in the azores and madeira, because i consider this measure important in supporting the subsistence of small industries in the sector which are engaged in their production and which are in a very unfavourable competitive situation in the face of the liberalization of markets and the increasing marketing of spirit drinks in these regions. the reduction of this tax also contributes to a better economic and social balance in these regions, thus ensuring the maintenance and even the creation of jobs, which are crucial for the protection of local economies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hübner report on a proposal for a council decision authorising portugal to reduce the rates of excise duty applied to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the autonomous region of the azores. in view of the specific features of the outermost regions, i consider this extension to be essential for the survival of the local industry of these products and for the protection of employment in the sector.
in writing. - in view of the importance for agricultural activity and, consequently, for the economy and employment in the portuguese autonomous regions of madeira and the azores of the production of rum and spirits respectively, and of liqueurs in both regions, i consider it essential that the reduced rate of excise duty on the consumption of these goods should continue to apply, as this will not lead to a situation of unfair competition within the internal market. the increase in the retail price caused by the elimination of the application of excise duty rates, which would make these products even more anti-competitive compared to similar products imported from the rest of the eu, thus undermining the survival of traditional products, would be dramatic for the local industry and the regional economy at a socio-economic level due to the impact on existing family farms in those regions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the existing derogation granted in 2002 to allow portugal to reduce the excise duty on rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in madeira and on liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed in the azores. since the beginning of this process, i have made every effort to ensure that this measure, which expired at the end of 2008, is resumed with the utmost urgency. after winning unanimous support in the committee on regional development, this result is confirmed by today's vote, which maintains the tax reduction with effect from january 2009 until 2013. madeiran rum and spirits producers face permanent obstacles related to their ultra-peripheral geographical situation, insularity, difficult terrain and climate and very small farms. if they were to lose this exemption, they would have to increase their selling prices, which would affect their activity and the employment generated by it, with serious consequences for the region.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and the republic of mauritius establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of their citizens. citizens of the union and nationals of mauritius travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of pursuing a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and the republic of seychelles establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of their citizens. citizens of the union and seychelles who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of pursuing a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and barbados establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of its citizens. citizens of the union and nationals of barbados who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of pursuing a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and the federation of saint kitts and nevis establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of their citizens. citizens of the union and citizens of the federation travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of pursuing a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and antigua and barbuda establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of their citizens. citizens of the union and nationals of antigua and barbuda who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i support this agreement negotiated between the ec and the commonwealth of the bahamas establishing a visa-free entry and short-stay visa regime to facilitate the movement of their citizens. citizens of the union and nationals of the bahamas who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 3 months in any 6-month period shall be exempt from the visa requirement. with the exception of the united kingdom and ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial limitation in respect of france and the netherlands, where this agreement only concerns their european territory. i would remind you that any person travelling for the purpose of pursuing a paid activity during a short stay should not benefit from this agreement and should remain subject to the relevant community and member state rules on visa requirements or exemptions and on access to employment. this agreement may be suspended or terminated, but such a decision may only be taken in respect of all member states. i also support the provisional application of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - as i said earlier on the report by reimer böge (a7-0021/2009) on the earthquake in abruzzo, i believe that solidarity between eu member states and european support for states affected by disasters is a clear sign that the european union, by adopting special aid instruments such as the european union solidarity fund, is showing that it is able to stand united in the face of adversity, and i welcome this. therefore, and considering the possibility of amending budgets being presented by the commission 'in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances', including the earthquake in italy, i voted in favour of adopting this report on amending the budget of the european union so that the residents of the affected region can see more quickly a repair of the damage caused by the earthquake and a normalisation of living conditions through the mobilisation of eur 493.78 million from the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for italy has been approved for the amount of eur 493 771 159, and since this fund has no budget of its own, it is necessary to make an adjustment to the community budget to ensure that the agreed amount is made available. while agreeing with the need to make funds available as quickly as possible, we regret that the proposal put forward by the european commission implies, among other budget lines, a reduction in funding for important community programmes under the previous and current multiannual financial framework. this is the case, for example, with the reductions planned for the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund, the financial instrument for fisheries guidance - the community programmes of the previous community framework 2000-2006 - or the financial instrument for the environment life+. in our view, apart from the necessary adjustment of the solidarity fund to provide it with a budget line with its own resources, its financing should not be at the expense of the community programmes referred to above, while at the same time insisting on an increase in military and propaganda expenditure, which could have been used to raise the funds now allocated to the solidarity fund.
in writing. - unemployment is one of the main problems affecting the european economic area. even before the outbreak of the current financial crisis, which has intensified and aggravated some of the symptoms previously felt, the serious impact that globalisation and the resulting business relocation have had on the lives of many populations was already evident. if we add to this the present distrust of the markets and the retreat in investment, it becomes clear the particular difficulty of the times in which we live. in this respect, and despite my preference for the regulation of markets, i believe that the exceptional nature of the crisis justifies exceptional measures to combat it. the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the mechanisms available to the european union to assist workers made unemployed by the current economic situation. i believe that the case of the workers of nokia gmbh in the german region of bochum justifies european aid, as was done in the past for portugal. the european union cannot but work together to promote a more robust and creative european market, which generates investment and jobs. only then can this problem be tackled effectively, seriously and sustainably.
in writing. − the case concerned a request for assistance from germany for redundancies in the telecommunications sector, in particular in respect of nokia gmbh employees, which met the eligibility criteria laid down in the european globalisation adjustment fund regulation. but the fact is that the mobilisation of this fund only mitigates some of the serious consequences of the economic and financial crisis, and therefore a break with the neoliberal policies that are causing a real economic and social disaster in many countries of the european union, particularly in portugal, is necessary. so, although we voted in favour of this report, we cannot fail to point out both the inadequacy of the measures, which are merely palliative, and the injustice of the regulation itself, which benefits more countries with better incomes, in particular with higher wages and unemployment benefits. we therefore insist on changing policies and on the need for a real plan to support production and the creation of jobs with rights.
in writing. − the creation, with the schengen agreement, of a european area without border controls was an important step in building an open internal market with free movement of people and goods. however, in order for this area to retain its potential, which i recognize, it needs an effective mechanism for assessing its implementation by the various member states. i therefore support the strengthening of schengen monitoring powers, in particular through assessments (questionnaires and on-the-spot visits, announced and unannounced) and ex post evaluation mechanisms, in order to ensure adequate monitoring of the way the various member states act, cooperate and control their external borders within the framework of the schengen agreement. i know that any weakness or malfunctioning of the system poses serious risks to the internal security of the union and calls into question the schengen area itself, as an area of freedom but also of security. i do not agree, however, that the community character of this evaluation should be strengthened by strengthening the powers of the european commission to the detriment of the intergovernmental character which has hitherto prevailed in the schengen evaluation group. i therefore vote against the commission's proposal.
vice-chairman of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, i would like to begin by congratulating you on this first debate on what this new instrument of political control means for the advancement and development of parliamentary democracy in europe. it is the european citizens, through their representatives, who stand to gain. in view of the latest developments, the irish referendum, the ratification by poland and the latest statements by the president of the czech republic, what is your assessment of the process of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon? has the president of the commission taken any action? and what is your forecast for the possible date of entry into force of the treaty and, on the other hand, do you know whether at this moment and in view of this forecast the commission has already made some efforts to transition from the treaties of the treaty of nice to the treaty of lisbon or whether it is still in a phase of expectation, so to speak, a phase of waiting to see?
vice-chairman of the ppe group. mr president of the commission, i would like to know the following: at this stage when everyone is waiting for the commission to be set up, what is the president's overall perspective? the question is whether we will now have a functioning commission by the time the czech republic has finally ratified it, or whether we will make progress in the appointment of new commissioners.
mr president, to reduce poverty and unemployment, we must create jobs with rights, we must support production, we must improve universal and free public services, that is, we must invest in other policies, we must do the opposite of what has been done. for example, it is with concern that we have just learned of a study by the directorate-general for employment and eurofund which presents two scenarios for the textile sector, predicting a loss of 20 to 25% of community employment by 2020 and, in a third scenario, even pointing to the loss of 50% of the employment currently existing in the european union. how can this be combined with the new proposals being made for the liberalization of international trade without taking into account the consequences in portugal and other countries of the european union, with very sensitive sectors such as the textile sector, agriculture and a universe of micro and small enterprises which are being suffocated by these policies.
i would like to start with the positive aspect: on thursday we will vote on a further eur 3 billion in payment commitments for the structural funds and for social programmes. it is true that the council opposes this policy, it thinks that we should not ask the states for more money. forgive me, swedish minister, but that is really the view of the grocery bills. we are living in exceptional times and i think that the commission, the council and parliament should have had the courage to face the problem of financing this budget head on and make it an exceptional budget. even with the expenditure we will be approving on thursday, this budget is still a budget that is passing by the crisis. it's a continuity budget. we don't need drops of water in seas of milk. we need a different policy for the rural world. we need not only structural funds for our territories, but a european social policy which complements the policy of each of our states. what we really need is courage! we have as many poor people today - 79 million - as we did at the turn of the century. we have enormous uncertainty about the values needed to combat climate change. the key issue we have to discuss is the financing of the european budget and the next financial perspective. that is the point, and don't tell us that there is no money because there is, we can get it from tax evasion, we can get it from taxation of capital gains made in financial markets and tax havens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because this is the problem with this budget that it was so important for us as members of the european parliament to set an example of restraint. i made some proposals about travel expenses. in today's world, a member of the european parliament earns a day's travel by salary, by means of a travel allowance, by distance travelled and by time lost. this is not serious and it's not understandable. i hope that on thursday we will at least have the manhood to review this.
i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the european union's budget for 2010 will help us to overcome the economic crisis we are facing. one of the results of this crisis is unemployment. i would therefore like to stress and point out the importance of the amendment we have made to strengthen the erasmus programme in order to promote and facilitate the creation of the first job for young people. i am glad that our main proposals have been accepted both in the budget and in the motion for a resolution. our aim is legislative excellence. we agree with the importance of multilingualism, of course, but we understand that our great aim is legislative excellence, and to that end we must have the means for members to achieve it. we have proposed for greater transparency and rigor a zero-based budget, which should be implemented at the beginning of each legislative cycle. we have also proposed reservations for this objective, the objective of transparency and the objective of rigor, and therefore reservations in the case of, for example, communication policy, where we want to have a cost-benefit analysis. we also reserve the right to try to reduce the bureaucracy that exists, for example, in the hiring of assistants, and we want to 'oblige' the administration to help reduce that bureaucracy. we also agree and advocate that real estate policy should be a long-term policy. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr surján and mr maňka. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lászló surján, on not giving in to the temptation of demagoguery, for example in the case of the milk fund, and on doing the best he could and not trying to sell abroad.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will be very brief. first of all i would like to thank all the members of the parliament for their proposals regarding the budget for 2010, and hope that in the further budgetary procedure we will find proper solutions in order to establish a good budget for 2010. i just wanted to respond concretely to this very important issue of milk funds and say that what mrs fischer boel stated yesterday was the commitment by the commission to come up with a proposal on certain amounts of money, namely eur 280 million. the commission will discuss this issue next week and we will come up with a concrete proposal on this issue according to the rules of procedure. these are my brief remarks regarding the discussion.
in writing. in the midst of the economic and social crisis, with dramatic effects on employment and people's living conditions, the proposed community budget for 2010 falls far short of what is needed. it is unacceptably even short of the agreed amount in the 2010 multiannual financial framework of some eur 6 billion. in view of the serious social situation in the various member states, and particularly in the so-called 'cohesion countries' such as portugal, we consider it urgent to review and increase the community budget and have put forward proposals to this end, such as: - financial reinforcement of structural and cohesion policy; - re-evaluation of the n+2 and n+3 rules, which have so far resulted in a loss of some eur 106 million for portugal under the previous financial framework; - increase in the rate of community co-financing in the structural and cohesion funds. it is regrettable that other proposals with important social and environmental implications were not taken up during the budgetary debate, such as:- a programme for the development of portuguese industry;- a programme to support the textile and clothing sector;- a programme to support small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing;- the increase in the life+ programme.
mr president, commissioner, we are all unfortunately aware of the serious situation in which the dairy sector finds itself in europe. my group has been calling for several months for urgent measures to try to save thousands of farmers who are threatened with ruin. that is why we have taken initiatives and supported initiatives by other political groups to achieve this objective. we cannot therefore fail to welcome the commission's initiatives, however insufficient they may seem to us. that is also why the socialist group voted this morning for the urgency procedure which was requested of us, but we will nevertheless propose and demand that the european parliament be kept informed of the measures which, under the powers which we are now giving to the commission, will be taken in the coming days. we will, however, continue to do everything possible to restore market balances so that they can guarantee adequate income to producers, as reaffirmed in the lisbon treaty.
mr president, commissioner, the proposal put forward by the commission acknowledges the failure of its policy for the dairy sector, but it leaves intact the disastrous underlying political orientations for the sector. the millions mentioned are far short of the needs of compensation for the price falls which producers have been suffering. contrary to what is advocated, we must reverse the course of a cap whose successive reforms have dismantled the instruments regulating the market, quotas and production rights, leading to the gradual abandonment of the activity by many thousands of producers. many thousands of jobs are at stake, whole families who depend on the agricultural activity of the milk sector in particular. this is a matter of concern for vast areas whose rural neglect will be accentuated with significant social and environmental consequences. all this calls for immediate action to establish fair prices for producers, which requires more resources than are currently available, but above all, and i repeat, it calls for measures of wider scope, not just palliative measures, such as the cancellation of the annual increase in milk quotas, their re-establishment at the levels prior to the decision to increase them and the repeal of the decision to end the quota system in 2015.
mr president, commissioner, i too welcome the adoption of the urgency procedure in this house, considering that the inclusion of milk in article 186 is important and urgent. i have argued that a serious situation such as that in the milk sector requires urgent measures to defend the sector, for both economic and social reasons. i come from a country, portugal, and a region, the azores, where the dairy sector is very important and is located in socially very fragile regions where, incidentally, it would be vital to maintain the quota system beyond 2015. these measures now proposed are few in number, but they are indeed necessary and urgent. i am also concerned about the exercise of the new powers to be made available to the commission, especially because it has been quite insensitive to this crisis, moving forward only with weak and late measures and under heavy pressure. in this context, i would like the commission to present an annex to article 186 which gives examples of measures which can be used for the purpose of providing support for the milk sector in order to make it sustainable.
in writing. commissioner, after having fought so hard for the commission to come forward with measures, we are not in a position to reject any contribution that comes to us at this very difficult time for milk producers and their families. unfortunately, the commission took a long time to act. it did so under a lot of pressure from milk producers, the european parliament and 21 member states. the measures which it presented here included the following: 1 the fund of eur 280 million is insufficient in relation to the eur 600 million unanimously considered necessary by the committee on agriculture, which is the committee which is both technically and politically specialised in this area. this political demonstration was approved by the european parliament itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the inclusion of milk in article 186 introduces an operational instrument for rapid use by the commission, which should not, however, deprive parliament of its monitoring. we still need market regulatory instruments. we must maintain the quota system and introduce transparency in the milk marketing chain, without which it will not be possible to restore and guarantee stability in europe's fields.
two brief notes: the first on the treaty of lisbon, after the 'yes' vote in ireland and the signature by the president of poland, it is expected that the constitutional court of the czech republic will rule and that president klaus will do what he must do: sign the treaty. the council cannot give in to blackmail by the president of the czech republic. the lisbon treaty is indispensable to the better functioning of the european institutions and has other advantages, including the strengthening of the european parliament's powers and the rights of citizens. hence the urgency of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the council and the commission must give president klaus a deadline to behave as the president of a democratic country and a member of the european union. it is not acceptable even to think that the will of any ruler can override the will of the majority. the second note is on the copenhagen conference: ladies and gentlemen, the world needs a global agreement to combat climate change, the world needs to stop global warming, developed countries and developing countries need to join forces and make an ambitious decision. copenhagen is the great opportunity to avoid catastrophe, that's what scientists say. invoking the financial crisis to delay or reduce ambition in copenhagen is not an argument, it is not serious. ambition is what it takes to save the planet.
mr president, this next council should give absolute priority to changing the liberal policies which have been at the root of the serious economic and social crisis. it should be time to face up to the poverty of some 80 million citizens in the european union, including more than 30 million workers whose wages are so low that they cannot get out of the poverty in which they and their families live. it should be the time to make a decisive contribution to the response to the serious unemployment which is continuing to increase and which could reach 30 million next year if appropriate measures are not taken immediately. the great challenge for this council is therefore to break with the neoliberal policies of the lisbon strategy and the stability pact. it is the replacement of the old system by a genuine programme of social progress and development, which promotes quality public services, supports production and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and values those who work, creating more jobs with rights, including for women and young people.
the next european council has as one of its main objectives to ensure the success of the un climate change conference in copenhagen in december. the council conclusions on the eu's position at the copenhagen conference are essential for the eu to speak with one voice. it's important to maintain an ambitious negotiating position. the eu must show unity and leadership, in particular through aid to developing countries, which by 2020 will face costs of €100 billion a year to adapt to the impacts of climate change and mitigate their emissions. it is essential to define the architecture of a financing system for developing countries, especially the least developed, and to define the source and amounts of such financing in order to secure an agreement in copenhagen. this agreement will allow for the entry into force of a protocol to replace the kyoto protocol as from 1 january 2013 and will ensure an effective reduction in greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry in the global world.
mr president, i would like to ask for the floor under rule 157 (1) of the rules of procedure to speak on the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe group on the joint motion for a resolution on freedom of information in italy and other member states. this amendment is an embarrassment to the european parliament and, in the name of truth, should not be discussed, let alone voted on. their assumptions are false and are based on a fallacy created by the parties in portugal during the election campaign. they have had the proper response from the portuguese electorate. on the other hand, what is an unquestionable fact (and i have the proof here): the mep who proposed this amendment yesterday, on his website, showed his intolerance and inquisitorial attitude by asking the writer josé saramago, nobel prize winner for literature, to renounce his portuguese nationality. it's clear who's attacking freedom of speech.
mr president, my oral amendment is as follows: it deplores and regrets the influence exercised by the portuguese socialist government which led to the decision to close down the national journal of the portuguese television channel tvi and notes that this decision is now the subject of an investigation by the portuguese regulatory authority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the s&d group resolution on freedom of information because i consider that freedom of the press is one of the pillars of the free and democratic society that i defend, and whenever it is at risk, as it is now in italy, we must be ready to protect it. in italy there is a clear and serious risk to freedom of expression and the press. the fact that the prime minister controls, directly or indirectly, a vast empire of publishers, daily and weekly newspapers and 3 television channels is truly incompatible with the political functions of mr berlusconi and with the requirements of a democratic state governed by the rule of law, a member of the eu. in addition, attempts to pressure and manipulate the public television station have been made. we must not forget that the economic crisis we are living through has further weakened the media, making them more sensitive to pressures from advertising companies or the public authorities. it is indeed urgent that the european commission finally publish a proposal for a directive on media pluralism and concentration, which will clarify the rules to be followed in a matter of such democratically vital importance in all the member states.
in writing. - the relationship between political power and journalism is complex and delicate, but it is clear to me that no one should have the right to impose 'his' truth by censoring ideas, persecuting journalists or limiting freedom of expression and information. freedom of information and expression is one of the basic principles on which the european union is founded and is essential in any democracy. that is why this debate should not be trivialised or used for political ends. when the european socialists table a resolution on freedom of information in italy, they confuse the european parliament with the italian parliament. they show double standards when they refuse to accept the proposal to include other national cases such as the german, hungarian or portuguese cases, which referred to the unjustified suppression of tvi's national newspaper. they don't care about freedom of information in europe, but only in italy... interestingly, on the same day that it is known that portugal drops 14 points in the ranking of press freedom produced by "reporters without borders".
in writing. the portuguese socialist delegation to the european parliament denounces and condemns the initiative of some portuguese meps from the ppe who have tried to tarnish the image of portugal and the portuguese prime minister with the unfounded accusation of interference in the media. this action was taken as part of a whitewashing operation against the italian government of silvio berlusconi's attacks on freedom of expression and the media. the socialist delegation cannot but deplore the fact that some portuguese meps are dragging a debate that some parties opened in the recent election campaign and to which portuguese voters have responded without hesitation overseas. unlike the promoters of this initiative, the socialists do not ask any portuguese citizen to renounce his nationality, but we denounce those who, in defence of any compromises with silvio berlusconi, attack the good name of portugal.
in writing. - commissioner viviane reding appealed to the house during the debate on this issue: i ask you not to use the european institutions to solve problems which, in the light of our treaties, should be solved at national level. i cannot agree more and i cannot but regret the use of such expedients by the european left, particularly by the socialists. i would remind you that in the previous legislature the spanish socialists tried to manipulate the european parliament by obtaining support from outside - which was scarce within the country itself - for a disastrous anti-terrorist policy. this unfortunate pattern of behavior persists. as the president of the ppe group has had occasion to point out, it is clear that there is a lack of faith in these attitudes, which do nothing to increase the people's confidence in the european institutions. i wonder whether the socialist group would be so ready to promote a similar debate on portugal and the repeated interference of the government in the media, which led, in the space of a few months, to the replacement of the director of a leading newspaper (público) and the abrupt closure of a television newspaper (tvi), which has already been expressly condemned by the regulatory authority for the media.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the resolution in defence of freedom of information because we are in favour of freedom of expression and information, pluralism in the media and against their concentration. however, we disagree with some aspects of this resolution which amount to interference in the democratic life of each country, and we have the greatest doubts about a possible directive in this area, particularly in view of the current composition of the european parliament. the fight we are waging for freedom of information and expression, for the defence of the rights of journalists and other media professionals, for the defence of access to information for all and for the guarantee of its pluralism, cannot be used to provide cover for partisan manoeuvres aimed above all at the european parliament's interference in the internal life of countries, using two different weights and measures, as the case may be, in the interests of one or another political force. we therefore abstained on the ppe's proposals on the tvi issues in portugal, despite the fact that the criticism of the pcp on this situation in portugal is well known.
mr president, it is essential that the primary objective of the creation of the european external action service should be the concrete expression of the efforts of the european institutions: to ensure the creation of an effective service capable of articulating, formulating and implementing a european response to the international challenges of the present. it must be more than the sum of its parts, it must be an added value to the present efforts of the member states and the european union. in this sense, it seems to me essential that what makes the union specific should be at the heart of this new reality, and this specificity is the community method. that is why i give my full support to the brok report, which advocates and safeguards close links between the commission and the future service. i would like to stress two points in this connection: the importance of close coordination between the president of the commission and the high representative, who is also vice-president of the commission, in order to ensure its effectiveness and smooth operation. finally, the need for an alliance between parliament and the commission to combat the intergovernmental drift that is looming and which could jeopardize the effective functioning of the service. parliament must therefore be vigilant and ensure that the european external action service is a centre of excellence, representing the best foreign policy expertise.
this is another of the regrettable documents of the european parliament, which seeks to influence the whole functioning of the european union in the worst possible way, using the legal personality which the treaty of lisbon confers on it, but which has not yet entered into force because of the lack of ratification by the czech republic. the report is symptomatic of the militaristic nature of the european union. the aim here is to ensure that foreign policy serves the interests of military expansion of the great powers of the european union, taking advantage of what they have written in the treaty of lisbon to strengthen their decision-making power, even if there are member states with different views. an example of this is the statement in this report: 'military and civilian crisis management units shall be placed under the authority of the high representative, while the command and organisational structure of military personnel may differ from that of civilian personnel; the sharing of security intelligence analysis among the participants in the eeas is of vital importance in supporting the high representative in fulfilling his mandate to conduct a coherent, robust and effective union foreign policy.';
madam president, in this debate i would like to begin by stressing the importance of relations between the united states and the european union, especially at a time of global economic crisis. we need more and more common action on the crisis, the energy market and the fight against terrorism, but we also need more and more focused action, not wasted on more taxation or attacks which are now absurd in relation to a financial system which is necessary for the market. focusing on the financial issue, i would like to highlight the efforts being made, both in the united states and in the european union, towards a policy of better regulation, with attention to the involvement of stakeholders in the debate on the report. coordinated action between the united states and the european union is essential to achieve a more mature state of economic relations leading to a de facto transatlantic market perhaps by 2015. we must also defend atlanticism here. it is also essential to reduce administrative barriers between the united states and the european union in order to create a competitive environment and a more attractive market for all, citizens and businesses. i believe that the transatlantic market can be built on a stable trading basis, which will grow economies and put an end to the danger of new economic and social crises such as the one we are experiencing. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to make it very clear that the conditions are unique and that with more atlanticism a better situation is possible.
i would like to stress the importance of this question raised by mr goerens, a question of the most elementary justice. we all know perfectly well that in a situation of influenza a pandemic, it will be the countries of the south that will suffer most from this problem and the consequences of the spread of the virus, and not the countries of the north. we are watching with total passivity every year the deaths of millions of citizens as a result of pandemics that have either been eradicated or are being treated in the northern countries, a huge list: malaria, dengue, yellow fever, tuberculosis. we have no limits to this list and we are passively watching this problem. we have indeed used the countries of the south as free suppliers of samples of the new strains of the virus so that we can improve treatment in the countries of the north, but we have not yet had an effective response to these problems and therefore to the questions that have been raised i would like to add just a few more. do we really want to treat this problem as a public health problem or as a business? because if it's a public health problem, we have to ensure equal access to treatment in all regions of the world, and to do that, we have to be more effective. on the other hand, i would like to ask, and i hope that is not the case, whether we are waiting for the vaccine stocks in europe to become so overstocked or for the side effects to prove so negative in this plan by then, yes, to have an act of generosity and suddenly start sending the necessary vaccines to the countries of the south. finally, i would just like to ask whether the european union, whether we europeans, whether the commission is comfortable with a system or a model where the northern countries treat pandemics through a prevention model and the southern countries treat them as palliatives or just leftovers.
mr president, pursuant to rule 151 of the rules of procedure, which concerns matters of a personal nature, i would like to state that i consider it improper to use my name in the budget amendments on forced abortion tabled by mr deva and mr szymański. the amendment to which they refer, which i tabled in an opinion on the report 'a special place for children in the european union's external action', read as follows, and i quote: calls on the eu to firmly pursue the elimination of all forms of discrimination against girls (since conception) and commit adequate resources to overcome the subsequent asymmetries. my text seeks to protect girls from discrimination before birth, in particular against sex-selective abortions, but it does not seek to prevent any and all activities linked to termination of pregnancy. my text differs in language and purpose from that of mr deva and mr szymański in the amendments to this budget and it is therefore not right to associate them, let alone to invoke my name in this sense, which i consider to be a reprehensible attempt at political manipulation. i declare that i shall vote against amendments nos 727, 732 and 734 tabled by mr deva and mr szymański.
mr president, i rise to speak under rule 173 of our rules of procedure, which deals with the non-observance of the rules of procedure. i am asking for a change in the order of voting, because i think that the order of voting in the list violates rule 161 of our rules of procedure. i therefore ask that amendment no 70 which proposes an allocation of eur 600 million to support the milk sector, which is in a very serious situation, as we all know, be voted on immediately before amendment no 812, which proposes an allocation of eur 300 million. i would remind you that this allocation of eur 600 million was unanimously approved by the committee on agriculture and deserved the support of a large majority in this house at our last meeting on 17 september, when we voted a resolution on support for the milk sector and the crisis it is going through.
in writing. − the contribution of the european budget for 2010 to stimulating economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and job protection is key to responding to the recent economic crisis. as a particular stimulus to the european economy, i would like to highlight the european economic recovery plan, which encourages, among others, projects in the energy sector (electricity grids, natural gas grids and carbon capture and storage projects), finances broadband internet measures, bringing the so-called information highways to rural communities, creates a dairy fund as a new challenge for the common agricultural policy, and other community aid programmes, such as the distribution of fruit and milk in schools. i would like to highlight the amendment tabled by the ppe to the draft general budget for 2010, which introduces the promotion of young people's first jobs as an additional objective of the erasmus programme through joint training with companies, traineeships and entrepreneurship courses.
in writing. - i consider the measures announced by commissioner fischer boel following the meeting of the council of agriculture ministers in luxembourg and the agriculture committee in strasbourg (19 october) to be insufficient. the package, which is still to be approved by the ecofin council on 19 november, has a budget of €280 million and will be delivered in the form of a financial envelope to the member states, based on production and annual quotas. according to the calculations, portugal would receive a financial envelope of eur 6 to 7 million to combat the fall in producer prices, which is more than 50% compared to 2007-2008 prices. i think that eur 0.003 per litre of milk produced in portugal (calculations presented by the producers) is too little for a problem which has been dragging on for several months now, especially if the minister for agriculture uses this money for early reforms, as he has already announced. this amount of eur 280 million is an important signal from the european commission, but it is insufficient in relation to what producers really need to get out of the crisis.
in writing. the budgetary procedure is one of the most important community procedures in which parliament, the commission and the council share the decision-making power. today, as the first reading is completed, parliament reaffirms its role as budgetary authority by having succeeded in increasing both the appropriations for commitments and for payments in relation to the council's proposal, although still below what we would like. the epp sees the crucial issues it has been advocating for the relaunch of european economies in the context of the current crisis confirmed, through a focus on cohesion policy that boosts growth and competitiveness, especially of smes, the main engines of job creation. as a psd mep, i have reason to be particularly pleased that a large majority has approved an amendment by our delegation which aims to create an erasmus for the first employment programme, one of the proposals we put on the table in the last european elections. aid to milk producers and the guarantee of greater security for citizens, also with regard to energy supplies, have also been safeguarded. this is not the end of the process, as the three institutions will have to reach a common position which will be voted on at second reading in december.
in writing. − in the current context of economic, financial and social crisis, it was essential that the 2010 eu budget paid particular attention to this situation and that it became an effective instrument to overcome the crisis. i therefore voted in favour of the draft eu budget for 2010, considering that it responds globally to these needs. the european parliament is determined to do everything possible to ensure adequate funding for all activities and policies that encourage growth and job creation and provide solutions for european citizens, including greater energy security, increased support for research and innovation, particularly in the field of clean technologies, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and the enhancement of lifelong learning. in this context, as proposed by the psd meps, i would like to recall the importance of the creation of an erasmus-employment programme, aimed at young people looking for their first job, to help achieve these objectives. finally, i must stress that i disagree with the council's further cuts in budget lines to support the lisbon strategy, as this is contrary to what should be done to encourage growth and economic recovery.
in writing. - i support the surjan report as the possible compromise on the budget of the european union. i regret that the council has further reduced the commission's preliminary draft budget, which in my view was already below what was needed. we cannot have europe with a miserable and manifestly insufficient budget. i particularly disagree with the reductions in the budget lines to support the lisbon strategy. the contrast between the public declarations of priority for combating the economic crisis and the commitment to 'competitiveness for growth and employment' and the appropriations provided for in this draft budget could not be greater. i welcome the increase in appropriations for the area of freedom, security and justice and stress that the construction of a people's europe also requires the proper implementation of these budget lines.
in writing. - i consider the increases proposed by parliament for the different headings and the amount of eur 1.5 billion to finance the european economic recovery plan relevant for the eu to recover from the economic crisis we are in, as well as for strengthening the role of the european union in the world. as i said earlier, i consider it particularly important to allocate the necessary funds so that smes, one of the main victims of the crisis, can benefit from support to enable them to survive this crisis. the increase for the competitiveness and innovation framework programme will allow the promotion of entrepreneurship and innovation, which are essential for the eu's assertion in the global market and for socioeconomic development in the internal market. however, i regret that only eur 300 million has been allocated for the creation of a milk fund. the serious crisis currently affecting this sector would, in my view, justify a larger allocation of funds, initially eur 600 million, to help producers overcome the difficulties they are currently facing. i therefore consider that eur 300 million is insufficient and i hope that the allocation of this amount can still be substantially revised in the light of the needs of the parties affected by this decision.
in writing. - the proposals to increase funding for energy security, research and development, support for smes and lifelong learning; d) the creation of a milk fund of eur 300 million, which is insufficient but is the maximum amount possible (i consider it essential that there be a regulatory mechanism and that milk quotas be maintained); e) the financing of broadband for the rural world from the sea available under heading 2; f) the amendment proposal we have put forward to strengthen and amend the ermus programme so that it is also the first instrument to create employment opportunities for young people. i hope that the budget with payment appropriations of around eur 127 billion will be used in full, as there is a delay in implementing the funds for a budget year.
in writing. - in the midst of the economic and social crisis, with dramatic effects on employment and people's living conditions, the proposal for a community budget for 2010, which is now under discussion, falls far short of what is needed and once again demonstrates the true meaning of 'european solidarity'. instead of responding to the social crisis, a significant part of the budget is for the strengthening of military expenditure and for the support of economic and financial groups, in line with the reinforcement of the militarist and neoliberal orientations of the european union. the european parliament's proposal, although an increase on the council and commission's budget proposal, still falls short of the agreed amount in the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework for 2010 by some €6 billion, with the final amount - to be decided in december - still unknown. we are, however, pleased that our proposal to create a new budget line for textile and footwear activities has been adopted, with a view to establishing a community programme for the sector. a proposal is being put forward to deal with the crisis in the sector, which is being caused by the exponential increase in imports from third countries, particularly in the regions most dependent on the sector.
in writing. - i would like to begin by regretting that the council has further reduced the commission's preliminary draft budget and that, despite the assumption that the priority of the 2010 budget is the citizens and the fight against the economic crisis, there is no adequate funding for heading 1a - competitiveness for growth and jobs. the budget cuts made by the council are taking away funds from the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which is contrary to the fight against the current economic crisis. i would, however, like to congratulate the fact that the amendment by the psd meps, which was an electoral commitment to the portuguese electorate, has been adopted with regard to the creation of the erasmus 1st employment concept as a way of promoting employment for young people and helping to combat the economic crisis. finally, i would disagree with the reductions introduced by the council in heading 1b - cohesion for growth and employment at a time when the structural and cohesion funds are important to stimulate growth and economic recovery, but also because a large number of important policies aimed at combating climate change and supporting growth and employment are financed by this subheading.
in writing. - in this debate on the general budget of the european union, i am showing my willingness to have the particular conditions of the crisis we are currently experiencing taken into account when we discuss the allocation of funds to the different sectors of the european economy. i would like to draw attention to the urgency of setting up a fund for the milk sector, given the difficult circumstances in which producers find themselves, and i hope that an effective measure to support this sector of activity will be adopted. the allocation of the necessary funds to enable smes, one of the main victims of the crisis, to benefit from support enabling them to survive this crisis, is essential. the increase for the competitiveness and innovation framework programme will allow the promotion of entrepreneurship and innovation which are essential for the eu's assertion in the global market and for socioeconomic development in the internal market.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the zero-based budget policy at the beginning of each parliamentary term, which i presented on behalf of the ppe. parliament's budget will thus reflect real needs and increase transparency, budgetary rigor and efficiency. i am also in favour of the separation of fixed and variable costs, the latter being justified by a cost-benefit analysis. this cost-benefit analysis in areas such as communication policy is important for better results and resource management. i would point out that this draft budget does not include the requirements resulting from the possible entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which will probably lead to the drawing up of an amending budget. i would stress that legislative excellence must be parliament's top priority and that the necessary resources should be allocated to this end. i also think it is crucial to adopt a long-term building policy, which should incorporate the costs of maintaining buildings.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the overall level of parliament's budget falls short of the self-imposed limit of 20% of expenditure under heading 5 (operating expenditure) of the multiannual financial framework. in a year of crisis, it is important for parliament to give an image of rigour and restraint. the adopted budget does not include any adjustments which might be necessary if the treaty of lisbon enters into force, particularly in the legislative field. in this sense, there may have to be an amending budget if the lisbon treaty enters into force. it is important to note that the legislative role is the main priority of the parliament (for the epp), and that the resources necessary to ensure that it does a job of excellence should be allocated to it. as regards information policy, i welcome the agreement on the funding of political parties at european level and political foundations at european level, which should help to strengthen communication with citizens and their participation in eu political life - calls for further discussion on long-term budgetary principles in this area. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the fact that the overall level of parliament's budget falls short of the self-imposed limit of 20% of expenditure under heading 5 (operating expenditure) of the multiannual financial framework. it is important to note, however, that with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and the consequent increase in the responsibilities of the european parliament, an amending budget will have to be drawn up and the 20% ceiling on operating expenditure will hardly be maintained. a legislative role of excellence should be the first priority of the european parliament and the necessary conditions should be created for legislative excellence to be a reality. i would also like to highlight the work of the epp shadow rapporteur (mep josé manuel fernandes) who has made a decisive contribution to making this report a document of the utmost importance to the european parliament. i would like to highlight the proposal, now approved, to implement a zero-based budget policy at the beginning of each parliamentary term, which will allow parliament's budget to reflect only real costs and will increase transparency, budgetary rigor and efficiency.
in writing. − since 1998, the european parliament has consistently rejected all initiatives put to it when consulted on detailed matters concerning europol, as long as europol remains in the intergovernmental sphere, without being subject to democratic and judicial control. with the adoption of the decision making europol a union agency, financed from the community budget, and the reinforced role of parliament in monitoring, it is no longer necessary to continue this line of action. i therefore voted in favour of this initiative by the czech republic, which is intended to deal with an administrative issue, namely the updating of the basic salaries and allowances of europol staff in order to adapt them to the rising cost of living in the netherlands. i would point out, however, that it is for the council to take any decision on the adjustment of the salaries of europol officials by unanimity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of including milk in article 186 in order to allow a rapid response to crisis situations by the commission, as this introduces a tool whose use is important. however, the use of this instrument cannot take parliament away from this process, especially at a time when co-decision is approaching, and it is therefore essential that the commission should monitor these interventions. as regards the voluntary change in the supplementary levy system, commonly known as 'fines', to obtain internal means of financing for the restructuring of the milk sector, i think it is a measure that creates national responses, although in my view it would be more appropriate to adopt european responses to a crisis which is general in europe. in conclusion, i think that after having fought so hard for the commission to come forward with measures over the last few months, we are not in a position to reject any contribution at this very difficult time for european milk producers and their families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the single market because, in view of the serious crisis in the milk sector in europe, urgent measures are needed to restore market balances and guarantee adequate incomes for farmers, as stated in the objectives of the cap reaffirmed in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - these proposals are an acknowledgement of the failure of the commission's policy for the dairy sector. there are several reasons why we are voting against: 1) the amount proposed by the commission for the stabilisation of the milk market is clearly insufficient, being made available only in 2010, and therefore not allowing for a situation of manifest urgency, as would be required, especially in the case of small and medium-sized producers; the inclusion of milk and milk products in article 186 of this proposal gives the commission powers conferred on it by parliament and the council, without the commission specifying the measures to be taken. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of beef and veal. (4) the funds approved are mainly intended for restructuring the sector, which for the commission means the abandonment of thousands of producers, with all the social and environmental consequences that this entails; the proposal will accentuate the existing imbalances in the distribution of funds between producers and between countries, which will mean an aggravation of the difficulties for many producers.
in writing. - reports were voted at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on three specific measures (eur 280 million for direct aid to producers, temporary rule for calculating quota purchases for redemption and inclusion of the milk com in article 186 (emergency measures)). i believe that these are important measures, but that they are specific and insufficient for a problem which has already acquired very serious structural dimensions: the sector needs useful and effective management mechanisms to be able to intervene in the market when necessary, in stark contrast to the line advocated by the european commission, which advocates a liberal and deregulatory line. the crisis in the milk sector has shown that the common organisation of the market in milk still needs instruments, in particular the quota mechanism, to combat market imbalances. the package, which is still to be approved by the ecofin council on 19 november, has a budget of 280 million and will be delivered, in the form of a financial envelope, to the member states on the basis of production and annual quotas. according to the calculations, portugal would receive a financial envelope of 6 to 7 million euros to combat the fall in production prices, which is more than 50 percent compared to the 2007-2008 prices... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the vote on this resolution must not fail to raise two points about its aims and content. first, instead of playing the role of champion of democracy, which it is not, by making 'practical recommendations' to other countries, the european union should first ask itself about the state of democracy in the eu itself. the ratification process of the lisbon treaty is a recent example, among others, of how the so-called 'construction of europe' is moving against the democratic participation of the european peoples, against their interests, desires and aspirations, by putting pressure on them, blackmailing them and disrespecting their decisions about the direction they want for their collective future. secondly, in the field of external relations, instead of promoting the relaunch of the arms race and the militarization of international relations, the eu countries should make a contribution to democracy by promoting a genuine policy of peace and international cooperation, based on respect for the sovereignty of each country and the principle of non-interference, as well as respect for international law and the united nations charter. unfortunately, we are far from that. the eu, with its increasingly marked democratic deficit, cannot set an example, let alone help to 'consolidate' democracy in the world, which is why we are voting against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the brok report on the institutional aspects of the creation of a european external action service (eeas), which will be extremely important for the union's external relations to become more coherent and effective. it is necessary to ensure that the establishment of the eeas, as a result of the innovations introduced by the treaty of lisbon, preserves and develops the community model in external relations and ensures the interinstitutional balance of the union.
in writing. − the creation of the european external action service is the natural corollary of a process of increasing external acquisition of competences by the european union. it can become an important instrument for the eu's external coordination and assertion if it can resist the pressure of the directories and base its action on complementarity rather than competition with the diplomatic representations of the member states. i regret that it was not possible to obtain support in the committee on foreign affairs for an amendment i had tabled calling for the european languages of universal communication/world languages to be taken into account when defining the future internal linguistic regime of the eeas. the eeas should therefore use as its preferred working instruments the languages best suited to establishing these directly. it is therefore incomprehensible that this parliament, in dealing with this issue, should choose to ignore the external dimension of multilingualism and the strategic character of these languages, which is recognised not only by itself but also by the european commission.
in writing. - eu-us relations are without doubt the strategic partnership of greatest importance to the eu. we have a shared responsibility to promote common values such as respect for human rights, democracy, stability and peace, but also to find the best responses to the various global dangers and challenges, such as the economic and financial crisis, climate change, nuclear proliferation, the fight against international crime and terrorism, poverty eradication, among others. as regards cooperation in the fields of justice, police, internal and external security, i would point out that in order to achieve success in future negotiations it is essential that security measures do not undermine civil liberties and fundamental rights, without forgetting the need to respect privacy and data protection. i would like to reiterate that transfers of european personal data to third countries should only take place if two fundamental principles are taken into account: the principle of necessity and the principle of proportionality. full compliance with european and national data protection legislation and appropriate procedural safeguards should also be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the forthcoming eu-us summit and the transatlantic economic council (tec) meeting, which stresses the need for closer transatlantic relations in a context where major international challenges require a coordinated global response. i stress the role of the tec in promoting and ensuring a coordinated response to the global financial crisis and the importance of transatlantic relations in reaching an international agreement at cop 15 in copenhagen, including an appropriate financial package to help developing countries combat climate change, both in mitigation measures and adaptation measures.
in writing. − due to the strategic importance of the us for the eu and vice versa, a transatlantic partnership should be strengthened at the next summit in order to strengthen the capacity for action to deal with the challenges we currently face: from the current severe economic and social crisis, to issues such as disarmament, the fight against terrorism, climate change, respect for human rights, etc. coordinated action between the us and the eu is also key to achieving a more mature state of economic and trade relations between the two, leading to the creation of a de facto transatlantic market by 2015, with reduced bureaucracy and, consequently, a more stable and attractive framework for companies in both markets, and providing them with lower costs of doing business. moreover, if equivalent measures, particularly in the context of financial regulation, are not taken by the us, the eu could find itself in a competitive disadvantage, which would be extremely harmful for the european economy. i therefore reiterate the need to defend the eu's interests through a coherent and coordinated policy between the eu and the us in the various areas of common interest.
in writing. the main objective of the new eu-guinea conakry partnership agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the european community and the republic of guinea in order to foster the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the guinean fishing zone, in the interests of both parties. the financial contribution to the protocol is fixed at eur 450 000 per year for fishing opportunities for highly migratory species. the whole of this amount will be used to establish a national fisheries policy based on responsible fishing and the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in guinean waters. the above is in line with the purpose of the cfp in the area of fisheries agreements with third countries, and therefore the proof of this document deserves my vote in favour.
the european union has a duty to help the people of iran, and to help the people of iran. the majority of shiites live side by side with sunnis, zoroastrians, christians, jews, and baha'is. the persian majority shares the country with a number of ethnic minorities that make up almost half the population: azeris, arabs, kurds, baloch and others. cities are teeming with a middle class and a modern youth, ready to live in 21st century iran. all this turmoil and complexity scares the regime that preferred a simple iran: simple in religious fanaticism, in the isolation of the country and simple in a public opinion intimidated by violent repression. this resolution describes the systematic violation of human rights by iranians in their country, including the frequent application of the death penalty, including against children, the stoning of men and women, the gross limitations on freedom of expression and the persecution of religious and ethnic minorities. the european parliament is sending two different messages with this resolution. the first is for the people of iran: europe sees in the iranians, and especially in their youth, the hope of a future in which their country will embrace democracy and freedom and take on a leading role in the region, as it deserves. and the second one for the iranian regime: we tell him that iran will never realize its undisputed potential as long as violence and obscurantism are the main features of a political regime that invokes the values of justice and peace in vain and that continues to brutally oppress its people.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran, and we are therefore calling on the iranian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections are held in a democratic manner. these millions of iranians, inside and outside the country, expect something from us, and therefore the starting point cannot be other than that of solidarity and that of collaboration in helping these millions of iranians who are fighting for democracy and human rights and who do so, it is good to remember, taking much greater risks than those that diplomacy usually fears. so the starting point, i said, cannot be another. it is true that western policy has often been a simplistic and ignorant policy with regard to iran. it is true that too often europe has been a follower of policies that have proved wrong about iran. it is true that we have often been unwilling to accept that iran should be accorded the respect which it certainly craves as a major regional power. as an exiled iranian artist said after the protests, the west did not want the islamic republic and now we don't even have a republic. however, none of this can excuse a regime which has been a liberticidal regime, an oppressive regime and now a regime which is based on an increasingly unsound foundation of fraudulent elections and oppression of its people. the iranian people expect solidarity and support from the european parliament, and this is what we are trying to do with this text.
in writing. i welcome the strong will expressed by eu heads of state and government at the european council last october to continue to take the lead in the fight against climate change. european leaders agreed to the estimate that by 2020, the total costs of mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries should amount to around eur 100 billion annually. the eu strengthened its negotiating position by agreeing on the funding needed to help developing countries, and in particular the poorest countries. however, i am concerned that there is no clear decision on the eu contribution and the share of the total burden that will fall on each member state, taking into account the contribution capacity of each country. the success of the copenhagen conference depends on reaching a broad political agreement on the most important points, particularly on the commitments to be made by all the parties involved.
in writing. other at a time when europe has finally managed to overcome the crisis of the treaties in which it was immersed and lisbon is finally ratified by the 27 member states, i welcome the existence of a new legal and institutional framework which will make it possible to adapt the functioning of the union to its present size, strengthening the powers of the european parliament and paying particular attention to the role of national parliaments in european construction. this is the moment we have been waiting for, and with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the union has the opportunity, with its new institutional framework, to tackle the main tasks it will have to fulfil in the immediate future. i cannot help stressing here the action that is expected from the european union in combating the crisis, in reviving the economy, in strengthening confidence in the markets, and in paying particular attention to the evolution of the unemployment rate in europe. now that we are seeing tentative signs of economic recovery, we must therefore concentrate our efforts on reviving the european economy, with particular attention to the primary and secondary sectors - with particular emphasis on agriculture - which have been badly affected by the crisis, and on the creation of a european supervisory structure.
in writing. unfortunately, the european council once again gave high priority to the adoption of the conditions guaranteeing the entry into force of the so-called lisbon treaty by the end of 2009. the czech republic has therefore adopted the positions which enabled it to ratify the convention quickly. for the leaders of the european union, the important thing is the institutional issues that will allow a faster progress in the capitalist, federalist and militarist integration of the european union. the economic, financial and social crisis therefore took a back seat. the fact that little progress has been made is the result of great pressure from important sectors in several member states, as in the case of the milk crisis. even then, the council settled for a mere €280 million increase in the 2010 budget. however, the proposals which the european commission has just put forward following the council's guidelines, both on the excessive deficit and on the announced increase in the retirement age, are extremely worrying. instead of responding to the serious social problems of poverty and unemployment, they announce measures which will aggravate the social situation and the glaring inequalities that exist.
in this debate we must not forget the serious implications which the transposition of this directive on the liberalization of services may have in several countries, particularly those with the most fragile social situations, making a crisis situation such as the one we are experiencing even more serious. even with all the care in the various member states, if immediate measures are not taken to defend social and labour rights and to protect the most vulnerable sectors, including in the areas of public services, we could have even more serious problems. liberalisation could increase unemployment, poverty and inequalities among the most vulnerable, to the benefit of only large service companies and economic groups, especially in the wealthier countries. so at this time of crisis, one of the essential measures is to postpone the deadline for transposing the directive on the liberalization of services and to study adequately the possible social implications of the application of this directive.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, first of all, i would like to express my full support for the question raised by mr reul and, above all, to highlight the underlying political issue which is at issue here, which is precisely the joint research programming. what has happened in the joint programming on neurodegenerative diseases and in particular on alzheimer's is that in the middle of the process the rules have changed, we no longer have a report, we now have a resolution, so our capacity for codecision on this matter has been eliminated, we no longer are members of parliament, we have become consultants. and so i would like to know whether at least what we recommend will be taken into account or not. the programming of research activities, in whatever field, is a political choice, not a technical one, and in this respect the role of parliament must be valued and strengthened. it seems to me that setting priorities that are political means that they must be scrutinized, they must be transparent, they must be democratic. what has happened with regard to joint decision-making and joint scheduling of alzheimer's research is a process which must not be repeated and if it is repeated again, please let us know in good time! i hope, therefore, that the last thing that can happen to us is that the decisions and recommendations which parliament has made on this matter are not taken into account.
i welcome the initiatives and actions taken at european level in the fight against neurodegenerative diseases and in particular alzheimer's disease. member states have been developing research efforts in this area. it is important to encourage cooperation between member states by ensuring greater coordination in scientific research and technological development, avoiding fragmentation. joint programming of research activities is a valuable tool for reducing fragmentation by involving member states, the public sector and the private sector at european level. this joint programming instrument will be key to the future of the european research area. the construction of the european research area is at the heart of the research policy of the lisbon treaty. i am concerned, however, about the implementation of this joint programming instrument in terms of the bureaucratic complexity and the delay in the administrative procedures. i therefore ask what plans are there for the use of a process of economies of scale which combines efficiency, simplification and speed of administrative procedures in order to promote excellence and encourage the european-wide collaboration which the importance of this subject requires.
in writing. dear president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication to parliament presents an optimistic analysis of the expected benefits of research cooperation between member states and of the coordination that the commission can carry out, in the context of the 7th framework programme, in the field of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease. the measures proposed in the communication are based solely on the principle of the best use of existing resources and programmes: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the following programmes: - the health programme; - the 7th framework programme; - the eu disability action plan; - the open method of coordination; - the statistical programme. will optimum use of these resources be sufficient to achieve the expected results? what coordination mechanisms does the commission propose that could not have been put in place before the communication? what's the added value of this one? what new practical means does the commission intend to adopt to promote research cooperation in a context where resources and teams exist, albeit dispersed? will it be enough to raise awareness of the problem and use existing instruments to solve it?
in the last month, the regions of europe have been particularly evident. the european week of regions and cities has consolidated the position of the regions as a key part of the solution to europe's response to global challenges. president barroso, commissioner samecki and the hundreds of debates that followed have concluded that, leaving no room for doubt. at a more specific level, the important meeting of the conference of presidents of the outermost regions of europe, which included members of the european parliament for the first time, was a milestone in regional policy for the construction of europe. global challenges and european responses are a great opportunity for a new strategy for the ors. these regions, like the azores, beyond the permanent constraints that everyone is accustomed to hearing about, present a set of potentials that give clear opportunities to make our progress and give europe a clear advantage in new areas essential to responding to global challenges. the president of the commission is therefore called upon to put a clear end to the palace coup which the commission's 'no-paper' indicates was being prepared while we, members and european citizens, were advocating the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and its importance in defending territorial cohesion... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
in portugal, particularly in the north, the economic and social crisis is worsening and unemployment is rising, making this region one of the poorest in the european union, as recent eurostat documents prove. large companies continue to announce a reduction in activity and employment. one of the most serious examples is that of qimonda in vila do conde, which is in the process of laying off more than 600 workers, in addition to the approximately 1000 it has already laid off in the last year. it is, in effect, the destruction of one of the largest and most important companies in an industrial sector strategic for technological development. we cannot accept this situation. it is unacceptable that neither the european commission nor the council has found an alternative to the dismantling of this sector of microships, of nanotechnology. it is regrettable that they remain indifferent to the worsening unemployment and the growing agony of vast regions of the european union.
the survey carried out by the european agency for safety and health at work reveals worrying findings, noting that the generalization of unemployment is having a negative impact on the safety and health of workers. according to the survey of 27 000 respondents in the 27 member states, 6 out of 10 workers believe that the economic crisis and rising unemployment are degrading working conditions. 75% of the respondents say that the deterioration of their health can be attributed to the work they do. this information confirms the data from a eurostat study, which reveals that 27 million workers are victims of accidents or occupational diseases and that 137 million are exposed to risks on a daily basis. this week, another serious accident at work killed five portuguese workers in andorra. this situation requires a rapid response from the european union and the member states, which involves creating jobs with rights, valuing work and workers, and penalizing employers who, in order to increase their profits, cut back on the means of prevention and protection of workers.
the european commission has recently presented a draft communication on budgetary reform which includes references to cohesion policy which raise concerns and perplexities, particularly for the outermost regions. the debate on the community budget is urgent, but we believe that the post-2013 financial framework must be built on the basis of solidarity and territorial cohesion, which is crucial for regions like madeira that are facing permanent difficulties and therefore need permanent aid. it is unacceptable to try to shift the focus of cohesion policy from the current approach in terms of regions to one of value-added sectors, a move which could lead to the abolition of objective 2, which currently benefits about two thirds of european regions. it is inconsistent for the commission to try to reorient the allocation of funds from a regional perspective to a national or even a european one, rejecting the criterion of proximity which has always been at the heart of cohesion policy. it is intolerable to include as a variable in the calculation of the allocation of the structural funds the length of the member state's membership, dividing the states into new and old, which would render meaningless article 299 (2) of the treaty as regards access to the structural funds by the ors.
the current economic crisis is leading to precarious employment. economic hardship leads workers to blindly fall in line with job offers that escape labour standards and the scrutiny of police and government authorities. unfortunately, in the european union we are already witnessing a number of cases of labour exploitation, which often amount to genuine slavery of both european and non-european citizens. on the other hand, we have seen an unusually high number of deaths of migrant workers, including many compatriots, many portuguese citizens, even though they are working in a regular situation, accidents that have happened at the workplace and especially in the construction sector. it therefore urges and calls on the european union and its institutions, and all member states, to cooperate strongly and effectively in order to prevent such situations.
the application of the principle of economic and social cohesion is particularly important in crisis situations, which requires not only a significant increase in the community budget and a fair sharing of wealth, but also other policies that give priority to social protection and inclusion, the creation of jobs with rights for all and access to universal and quality public services to guarantee fundamental rights for all citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. we hope that after this debate, commissioner, there will be initiatives from the european commission to this end.
the global financial crisis has had a profound and global effect on the movement of people in the world. in this context, greater political and social integration is needed. a stronger and more united europe. the european union must guarantee the protection of all fundamental rights in its own territory, otherwise it cannot advocate a policy which it does not put into practice. i therefore advocate a new concept of sociality in the european union, capable of guaranteeing minimum social rights to every european citizen. for example, minimum standards in the areas of health, education and social pensions are needed and should be guaranteed at the level of the european union. i consider it crucial that these minimum standards be established, since they add to the homogeneity of employment conditions by acting as a regulatory effect on the movement of firms and labour. it is obvious that the union's financial support cannot be conditional on policies which are the sole responsibility of the member states, nor on those policies themselves. however, this does not mean that greater political and social concertation is not sought. on the contrary, this integration is urgent!
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we condemn the military coup d'état in honduras on 28 june and the continued violation by the coup plotters of the tegucigalpa/san josé agreements of 30 october. it is unacceptable that the coup plotters continue a clear strategy of systematic delay and subterfuge to delay the return of power to constitutionally elected president zelaya. the european union must demand the immediate and unconditional replacement of president zelaya. without this, it is impossible to continue with the electoral process, because it becomes unviable and illegitimate, since there are no minimum conditions to ensure that citizens can exercise the universal right to vote directly, secretly and free from coercion or any kind of threat. the european union and this european parliament must take a clear stand in condemning and repudiating these positions of the coup plotters. they demand the immediate restoration of democracy in honduras and refuse to send european observers or accept any results of elections under these circumstances.
in writing. the liberalisation of world trade has resulted in significant job losses and the deterioration of the social situation in several regions and countries, such as portugal, which are more dependent on certain productive sectors, such as textiles and clothing. this situation, in the context of the present deep economic and social crisis, calls for a different approach. the adoption of rules on designation of origin could contribute to the enhancement of production in the various member states. but much more is needed. the protection of productive sectors is required by a broader and more effective set of measures, including: - the implementation of safeguard and defence mechanisms against aggressive exports, giving priority to local production. - the break with the model based on low wages, low qualifications and precarious employment. - the existence of public instruments for controlling production and regulating markets, which guarantee the defence of the principle of food sovereignty and food security. - an effective fight against the relocation of firms. the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way is a requirement for the future. in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee, but makes impossible.
in writing. the eu's strategy for the region of the former yugoslavia was defined some five years ago in the thessaloniki agenda. a european perspective for the peoples of the western balkans was safeguarded, where the issue of visa liberalisation was envisaged. the slovenian presidency decided to open negotiations in 2008. five countries in the western balkans are negotiating such liberalisation, but according to the european commission's report, although all have made considerable progress, only three (macedonia, montenegro and serbia) meet the conditions for such liberalisation to be achieved in the near future, and bosnia and albania have not been considered as being suitable. i agree that we cannot set a precedent by lowering the criteria that have been agreed. we are ready to welcome bosnia and albania when they are ready to meet the conditions that have been set.
in writing. - the visa regime advocated here, and which we voted against, is a major step backwards for these countries of the former yugoslavia, whose citizens, during the period of socialism, could travel without visas to the countries of the present european union and who are now required to have a visa. on the other hand, this regime is full of contradictions. it is true that it provides for visa facilitation, but it still requires a set of unjustified procedures and requires the inclusion of biometric data in passports, posing serious risks to the right to privacy and data protection and violating the rights of citizens of those countries. in parallel, the unacceptable agreements for the 'repatriation of persons residing without authorization', whose access to the visa facilitation system implies their signature, remain in place, which, in addition to violating the rights of immigrants under these conditions, constitutes an unacceptable pressure and blackmail on these countries. the report also includes the dialogue with kosovo on its admission to this process, which implicitly constitutes its recognition and violates international law and serbia's sovereignty over the territory.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of this report, i believe that special attention should be paid to this process. the possibility of exempting the citizens of these countries from the visa requirement must be based on certainty as to the conditions under which this is done. in particular, taking into account the need to combat illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and crime. for all these reasons, i believe that the epp's reservations about albania and bosnia are justified, and that the countries which have been given this opportunity should be kept under constant surveillance. the security of europe's borders must be a concern of european policy, otherwise, by facilitating entry, we will be unable to comply with and enforce the rules within the eu.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal aims to create a new european microfinance facility for employment, which aims to give the unemployed a fresh start and open up entrepreneurship to some of the most disadvantaged groups in europe, including young people. this instrument will broaden the range of financial support specifically for new entrepreneurs in the current context of reduced credit supply. however, i cannot agree with the european commission's proposal to reallocate part of the budget (eur 100 million) of progress - which is a community programme for employment and social solidarity - to the european microfinance facility. reinvesting progress funds would be a bad sign, since progress is targeted at the most vulnerable social groups. the european microfinance facility should have a separate budget line.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution, as we support the position of the committee on employment and social affairs, which disagrees with the european commission's position that it intends to withdraw funds from progress to finance a microcredit programme. if the european commission wants to create a microcredit programme, it should do so with fresh money and not at the expense of progress. in any event, the european parliament has not yet completed its examination of the commission's proposals for the microfinance facility and the commission should therefore refrain from adopting the specific measures concerning the financial allocation of the progress programme until the legislative procedure on the microfinance facility has been completed. the commission is therefore strongly opposed to the adoption of the draft commission decision establishing the annual work plan for 2010 of the progress programme, divided into separate sections. on the other hand, we also think that it is more appropriate for the commission to withdraw the draft decision establishing the annual work plan for the 2010 progress programme, divided into separate sections, and to present a new proposal.
in writing. - i welcome the european union's commitment to intensifying its relations with russia, thus contributing to greater stability, security and prosperity in europe. one of the most important and central areas of cooperation in eu-russia relations is precisely energy and energy security. it is essential to create the stability needed to provide security of supply to eu member states and their consumers. i hope that the energy dialogue and the commitments resulting from the next eu-russia summit will contribute to greater transparency and long-term viability of the energy sector and that in turn this sector can help to establish new structural relations between the two blocs through the development of trade and economic cooperation. the eu and russia are also working together on climate change to secure a comprehensive agreement at the copenhagen conference. i would stress the strategic nature of eu-russia relations and their contribution to the process of mutual understanding and trust, which is fundamental to the process of establishing peace and stability on the european continent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that this summit, in the run-up to the copenhagen climate change conference, is of particular importance and can be an excellent opportunity to strengthen relations between the eu and russia. this partnership can play a decisive role in the world, taking into account the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the preparations for the copenhagen conference and the signing of a future agreement establishing an early warning mechanism that ensures greater energy security between the eu and russia, thus promoting greater cooperation in this field.
in writing. − as europe celebrates the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall, eu-russia relations are of particular relevance and deserve careful reflection. it is now clear that the wave of liberating and democratizing optimism after the fall of the iron curtain has suffered multiple setbacks and that russia is far from being the democratic rule of law that was then idealized and for which the whole world longs. it is therefore natural that this slowness should be disappointing. that said, we must firmly denounce the revisionist efforts of a part of the european left which seeks to cover up the heinous crimes of communism and to invent past perfect worlds which offend the memory of those who fought for liberation from soviet totalitarianism. this summit is an opportunity to strengthen eu relations with russia and to do so in a consistent and productive way for both sides, without neglecting the firmness and attention that are essential on issues such as energy, defence, democracy and human rights. the award of the sakharov prize to memorial signifies the extent of the work still to be done and reveals the demanding attention of this house to russia. i hope that the other european institutions will follow suit.
in writing. the next eu-russia summit will take place 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall. the symbolism of the occasion serves to remind us of two key ideas that should be kept in mind. firstly, the values of freedom, respect for fundamental rights, democracy, peace and the sovereignty of states are still very much relevant, they guide the european union in its internal and external policy and they should guide a state like russia, whose role in international society is, and should be, fundamental. on the other hand, we must stress with concern that russia has not taken on the role of a player guided by these values. but the passage of these twenty years also serves as a reminder that europe's relations with russia are different today, based on dialogue. russia is not an ally of europe with whom we share values, it is a neighbour with whom we share a geographical space, differences and common interests, as is the case with the situation in afghanistan. this realism must be the starting point for the future establishment of the new cooperation agreement. the defeat of communism does not mean the end of differences, it means, in these relations, the end of confrontation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the joint programming of research activities to combat neurodegenerative diseases because i consider it necessary to strengthen measures to promote research at european level in the field of these diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease. considering that 7.3 million people suffer from alzheimer's disease or related diseases (a number that is estimated to double by 2020), the promotion of prevention and early diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases is of particular importance. i believe that article 182 (5) of the lisbon treaty, which provides for the codecision procedure for the creation of a european research area, could provide a more appropriate legal basis for future joint programming initiatives in the field of research, through greater involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we know that neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's and parkinson's affect more than seven million people living in the countries of the european union. we welcome the commission's proposal for a pilot project for a joint research programme in this field, although we consider it to be insufficient. but we recognize its importance in reducing the fragmentation of the research effort, leading to a gathering of a critical mass of skills, knowledge and financial resources. further progress is needed, in particular in a disciplinary approach covering social research into the well-being of patients and their families, in the promotion of 'healthy mental lifestyles' and in the substantial improvement of the living and health conditions of the general population. we know that neurodegenerative diseases like alzheimer's and parkinson's are one of the biggest challenges in mental health, so the fight against these diseases must address a triple challenge: providing care on a daily basis to an increasing number of patients; improving the conditions under which much of this care is delivered, which means supporting more families and caregivers; and securing much more resources for research to bring the disease down.
in writing. − this report provides a clear and comprehensive overview of the activities of the european ombudsman in 2008. the new layout and presentation of the statistical data have helped to make this report clearer and more comprehensible than the previous ones. the ombudsman has seen an increase in the number of complaints that have been sent to him, although of the 3 406 received in 2008, only 802 fall within his mandate. i would like to stress the positive aspect of the fact that in 36% of cases an amicable solution has been found. i think that the number of inadmissible complaints is still very high and that an information campaign should be launched among the european citizens to increase their knowledge of the ombudsman's functions and powers. the european ombudsman is responsible for ensuring that citizens' rights under eu law are respected at all levels in the union and that the eu institutions and bodies comply with the highest standards of administration. it is important to ensure that citizens receive prompt and well-founded answers to their requests for information, complaints and petitions, while at the same time strengthening their trust in the eu and its institutions.
in writing. - given the importance of the role of the european ombudsman in fostering transparency in the relationship between the eu and european citizens, i reiterate my position that constructive relations have been developed between all the community institutions and bodies.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will modify the current eu budgetary framework and will lead to the need to adopt legal acts for its implementation, in particular the adoption of the new regulation on the multiannual financial framework, the financial regulation on principles concerning the adoption and implementation of the budget and the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement. as the whole procedure for adopting these new measures will take a few months, i agree with the rapporteur that transitional guidelines should be accepted as soon as the treaty enters into force. these guidelines will be relevant to allow the implementation of the budget and the adoption of amending budgets and, if necessary, for the 2011 budgetary procedure.
in writing. - i welcome the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which strengthens the role of the european parliament in several areas, including the budget. the report by alain lamassoure on transitional procedural guidelines deserves my agreement and i therefore voted in favour of it, since transitional measures are necessary as long as the treaty of lisbon is not in force. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his proactivity and the quality of the work he has done. i would stress that transitional measures cannot depart from the general principles enshrined in the new treaty or prejudice future legislative procedures. i would also stress the need to reduce the current number of amending budgets, which has been excessive, and the urgency of the commission presenting appropriate proposals for the adoption of a regulation containing the multiannual financial framework and the adaptation of the financial regulation.
in writing. the report focuses on the transitional procedural guidelines on budgetary matters, taking into account the prospect of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the entry into force of the treaty - which we were and are against - by the changes it introduces into the budgetary procedure naturally requires the adoption of these transitional measures, since the budget of the european union for 2010 will still be adopted within the framework provided by the treaty of nice. the subject of this report is not the treaty of lisbon itself, but the need to adopt a procedure to enable the 2010 budget to be implemented. understanding this need, we voted against all amendments to the report which would lead to a blockage of budget implementation, which would be profoundly negative. however, we cannot vote in favour of a report which says in paragraph 1 that the european parliament 'welcomes the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon'. this is what the most elementary consistency demands, in the face of a treaty whose consequences will be profoundly negative for the future of the workers and peoples of europe for the reasons we have repeatedly stated and whose ratification process was profoundly anti-democratic. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
the trade agreement signed on 4 april between the european union and israel, which aims to liberalize trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fishery products, is unacceptable for a number of reasons which we are denouncing here. of course, because it is in line with the neoliberal policies that are aggravating the current economic and social crisis, particularly in agriculture and fisheries, but this is all the more serious as these policies are now being promoted through an agreement with a country that has been violating international law and the most basic rights of the palestinian people, which does not respect the obligations agreed in the road map for peace, keeping gaza under siege, building more settlements, continuing the construction of the wall and the expulsion of palestinians from jerusalem. a country that continues to escalate its violations of human rights, as well as violations of international humanitarian law. we condemn the signing of this agreement, which will involve trade in products originating in israeli settlements in the palestinian territories, and we stress the european union's blatant and unacceptable complicity with israel in the serious violations described above. we express our full solidarity with the palestinian people and defend their right to build a free, independent and sovereign state.
the recent tragedy caused by hurricane ida as it passed through el salvador between november 6 and 8 included about 200 people dead and at least 18 missing, about 15,000 displaced, 80 damaged schools, destruction of agricultural crops and essential infrastructure such as roads, electrical grid, water supply services, communications and health equipment. el salvador is one of the countries in central america with the greatest economic and social difficulties and the european union must provide extraordinary support to deal with the social disaster caused by this natural disaster. the government estimates that more than eur 1 billion is needed to address these losses and implement a reconstruction and risk mitigation plan, given the country's vulnerability to these natural disasters. it therefore calls for the provision of extraordinary funds and the reorientation of available funds from the european union. so here it is, mr president, this appeal, asking you to forward it to the european commission and the council.
i would just like to warn you of the danger of a disease that threatens coniferous forests in the european union, the pine nematode, which is native to america, and which has been detected in the setúbal region of portugal and has already spread to other parts of the territory and to spain. the only effective method of combating the disease is the felling and burning of trees. i note that forests cover 38% of portugal's territory and represent 400 000 landowners, 14% of industrial gdp, 9% of industrial employment and 12% of exports. it is, after all, the forests of the european union that are at risk. this intervention is therefore linked to the need to establish an emergency plan to combat this disease, which, although it is currently confined to the iberian peninsula, will spread to the whole of the european union. a contingency plan which also has sufficient financial resources to put an end to what is now affecting many firms which have closed down and many workers who have lost their jobs. the whole of the european union must do something about this.
mr president, this initiative is intended to enable the customs administrations of the member states to set up a common automatic system of information in the customs field. this information system should contribute to the prevention, investigation and elimination of offences against not only community but also national laws. i welcome the desire to facilitate the exchange of information, to improve and strengthen customs cooperation and to establish procedures for joint action. i have no doubt that a rapid and efficient exchange of information will provide a vital service in the fight against illegal trade activities. when we talk about information systems, however, we must not forget that they contain personal data and that the issues relating to the protection of such data and the privacy of individuals are of paramount importance. i agree with the rapporteur, mr alvaro, that we must be vigilant to avoid any violation of fundamental rights. in particular, the right to privacy, so that personal information to be entered into the system should be limited to what is strictly necessary, without infringing on the privacy of individuals. it must be ensured that the use of such data can only be made for clearly defined and limited purposes within the applicable legal framework. and that data should only be kept for the period necessary to achieve the purpose for which it was entered. it is also important to ensure that access to this information system is transparent and in accordance with the provisions applicable to similar information systems, such as sis ii or vis. that is also why i do not support the amendments proposed by the gue group. as regards data protection supervision, rather than trying to create ad hoc solutions, it is preferable and advisable to maintain and apply the same supervision system that has been decided to apply to other similar systems, not only for reasons of consistency but also to avoid any level playing field in data protection. finally, madam president, i share the view of commissioner kallas and rapporteur alexander alvaro, who regret the hasty way in which the council sought to close this dossier before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as this is the first time i have taken the floor in a plenary session of the european parliament, let me greet you all and convey to you the pleasure, enthusiasm and commitment i bring to my participation in this assembly representing all european citizens. in the light of my task here, i have to present to you today two reports on the allocation of macrofinancial assistance to georgia and armenia, intended to alleviate the budgetary and external account difficulties of these two caucasian countries. both these countries are our partners in the european neighbourhood policy and have been hit hard by the global economic and financial crisis of the last two years. in the case of georgia, the impact of the crisis has also been compounded by the direct and indirect consequences of last year's military conflict with russia, including large numbers of internally displaced persons within that country. the economy of neighbouring armenia has also been affected by the combination of the economic recession and, in particular, the rapid deterioration of the russian economy, given the armenian economy's heavy dependence on trade with its large northern neighbour. this has dragged these two countries into a very difficult economic, financial and social situation. these two proposals for exceptional financial assistance which we are discussing today will reduce the budgetary gap and will have an immediate positive impact on the public finances and balance of payments of georgia and armenia, provided they are implemented immediately, and that is why our two reports fully endorse the need to provide such financial assistance to georgia and armenia. in addition, in my capacity as chairman of the committee on international trade, i proposed to my colleagues in that committee that they approve these two proposals without amendments under the simplified procedure, and that proposal was unanimously approved. however, in the reports we have presented to the house, we have expressed our protest at the delay and the short time in which the commission has brought these agreements to us for discussion, delays which we consider unacceptable in the future, even though we are aware of the natural need for a more expeditious procedure for this type of issue, given its exceptional nature. this position does not mean that my colleagues and i do not have reservations and concerns about the agreements themselves which are proposed to us. and some of us, probably, if we had chosen another option, would have had the opportunity to table amendments, stressing, for example, the importance of certain conditions and criteria linked to assistance in order to improve the transparency of its content and implementation. but that would have meant - and i will end, madam president - that we would not have been able to approve these agreements with regard to these two countries. and so, in view of the factual circumstances and the strategic importance of these two countries in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, i call on all of us to approve these two proposals for macrofinancial assistance without amendments, as proposed by the commission.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i take this opportunity to make three final remarks. first note. the macro-financial assistance to the union's neighbouring countries is justified for two reasons. firstly, because of its political value as a factor of prestige for the union, which derives from the assistance given to countries in difficulty in the framework of a good neighbour policy. secondly, because the union itself is interested in contributing to the financial, social and political stability of our neighbouring countries, as a condition for their development and democratic consolidation, because this is also a condition for our own political stability. the second point is that macrofinancial assistance must, however, be carefully linked to two conditions: that the assistance is intended to respond to the exceptional and transitory financial difficulties of these countries and not to other purposes, and that these countries do not divert the funds we provide them for purposes incompatible with the reason for the union's assistance, namely to increase military expenditure. third and final note. i would like to stress the importance and the need for a general regulatory framework on the allocation of macrofinancial assistance and on the implementation of the relevant agreements with the countries concerned, and i therefore welcome and note the commitment of commissioner kallas in this regard. and i hope that the next commission will live up to this commitment and that we will have a general regulation on macrofinancial assistance in the short term.
mr president, i would first like to welcome the rapporteurs, mr martin and mr corbett in particular, and say that as a member of the ppe i am basically looking at the proposed amendments to the rules of procedure. i would like to emphasize the point which seems to me important here and which has not been brought up this evening, namely the point of the national parliaments. the democratic strengthening of the european parliament is undoubtedly the result of these rules and the treaty of lisbon, but european democracy also results from the link with the national parliaments. and what this regulation, this proposal, is now doing is creating these two democratic legitimacies, strengthening democracy. on the one hand, democracy through the instruments of the european parliament, its instruments of control and its legislative capacity, and on the other hand, democratic cooperation between national parliaments through various instruments. and so here i am - let us say - in full agreement with the proposals made. i do not agree with mr duff when he says that we should put off introducing mechanisms for relations with national parliaments. i think we can do that now, in the light of the lisbon treaty, and that is very important. i would also like to say that i support the proposal by my colleagues mr szájer and mr brok on representation in cosac and, finally, that i am in full agreement with the remarks made here by mr brok and other colleagues on the primacy of parliament and its members over parliament's services.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a consistent approach to the problem of climate change, beyond the setting of emission reduction targets, requires a realistic definition of the means to achieve them. we consider it significant and revealing that the majority of the members of the committee on the environment have rejected the inclusion in the motion for a resolution on copenhagen of amendments advocating - and i quote - a diversification of the instruments used to achieve the reduction objectives, avoiding a dependence on market instruments and the need to carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of these market instruments as well as their social and environmental consequences. the preponderance given by the european union to market solutions is indicative of a political and ideological choice at the heart. the aim is to set up a scheme to generate billions of fictitious financial assets in the service of a system which shows that it has learned nothing from the crisis in which it finds itself. the experience of the implementation of the european trading system is a complete denial of the virtuousness of market regulation and a clear demonstration of the ineffectiveness and perversity of its instruments.
madam president, with only a few days to go until copenhagen, it seems more difficult to reach a legally binding text. we're going to have what some have called a two-strikes deal, but that can't diminish our ambition. the european union must continue to lead the negotiations and put pressure on the other partners. copenhagen cannot be a mere declaration of intent. the copenhagen process must include at least the binding political commitments and the timetable for the adoption of a post-kyoto agreement in june 2010 in bonn. the united states, japan and the bric countries and many others must make commitments comparable to those of the european union, as the eu's efforts alone will do little to achieve the goal of limiting the temperature increase to 2°c. the financing of adaptation in developing countries must not jeopardise the achievement of the millennium development goals, especially in african countries, which are the most affected by climate change. copenhagen should also contribute to the shift in the global energy paradigm by promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. this is the way forward, not just to combat climate change, but also to create jobs.
it is essential that a politically binding agreement emerges from the copenhagen conference. it should contain operational elements that can take immediate effect and a timetable that allows agreement on a legally binding text during 2010. the agreement must involve all the countries that have signed the convention, and it is important that commitments, both in terms of emission reductions and in terms of funding, are clearly identified. while the industrialized countries must take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the more economically advanced developing countries also have a role to play, contributing according to their responsibilities and respective capacities. industrialized countries and emerging countries with more advanced economies should be subject to comparable efforts. this is the only way to reduce distortions of international competition. the new agreement should provide for the establishment of low-carbon plans at national level supported by legislative acts. the commitments contained in the national plans should be registered internationally, ensuring greater transparency in all processes. these plans should be binding on all countries except the least developed. but for this strategy to lead to a true third low-carbon industrial revolution, a holistic approach covering all sectors responsible for emissions is needed. it is also essential to define the architecture of the financing so that it is sustainable in the medium and long term. the financing must come from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector in the industrialised countries, but also from the more economically advanced developing countries. in relation to the implementation of funding, priority should be given to capacity building and adaptation, with particular attention to the least developed countries. in conclusion, i would like to acknowledge the excellent work of commissioner dimas in leading this dossier.
in writing. no one can ignore the extreme urgency of concluding a post-kyoto international agreement to reduce co2 emissions substantially. we have to make sure that the earth doesn't get warmer than two degrees. to do that, global emissions have to fall by at least 30% over the next 10 years. we have the future of humanity at stake and we are running out of time. only in this way can the consequences of climate change, which is already having an impact but which may become the most serious problem of the 21st century, be mitigated. as the least contributors to these changes, we on islands are seriously concerned about this. the european union must continue to play a leading role and speak with one voice on environmental matters. it will have to use all its political weight to get a firm agreement concluded by the world's major powers at the next summit in copenhagen. it is essential to take concrete steps to change the global energy pattern, as portugal and the azores have already done, by focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
a political agreement in copenhagen is essential, but it needs to be global. to put european industry in a situation of enormous disproportion to other developed economies would be economically wrong and ecologically unhelpful. the european effort must be directed towards the search for an agreement which is binding on all. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the member states. this leaves out the idea of a tax on international financial transactions (tobin tax) to finance climate change adaptation in developing countries. this support, which is needed, must not be done at the expense of the economy, trade, wealth creation. the cost of such a tax to society at large (increased tax burden reflected on all taxpayers and consumers) and its impact on the financial market (reduced liquidity and credit flow to firms and households) cannot be ignored. in addition, the implementation of a global tax raises complicated technical and administrative problems. the way forward in a time of crisis cannot be through more and new taxes which are difficult to collect. the idea of this new tax has to be stopped.
in writing. the eu must maintain a leading and exemplary role in combating climate change. it should be noted that the eu has gone beyond the kyoto targets. i am in favour of the copenhagen agreement to reduce global emissions being binding. i have therefore tabled an amendment to parliament's resolution on this subject, calling for an international sanctioning regime to be included in the final text. i believe that the agreement must be global, timetabled and demanding. if we are not ambitious, we will create a small, unwieldy instrument that will be even less effective than the kyoto protocol, which already provides for international sanctions. it is therefore hoped that effective control will be established and that the agreement will incorporate a review clause so that it can be easily updated. we must also send a clear signal to the emerging industries in asia. china and india cannot be dismissed as being responsible for a large percentage of global emissions, while our industries are making tremendous efforts to reduce them. the united states has a strong responsibility for the success of this summit. i hope that the president of the united states, barack obama, will demonstrate that he deserves the nobel peace prize, because the fight against climate change will contribute to the peace and happiness of all peoples!
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament has adopted the telecommunications package, thereby strengthening consumer rights and contributing to greater access to information and freedom of expression. in order to achieve the objectives of the lisbon agenda, it is necessary to provide adequate incentives for investment in new high-speed networks in order to support innovation in content-based internet services and to strengthen the international competitiveness of the european union. it is essential to promote sustainable investment in the development of these networks, while safeguarding competition and increasing consumer choice. in order to ensure investment in new technologies in less developed regions, the regulation of electronic communications should be consistent with other policies, such as state aid policy, cohesion policy or the objectives of a broader industrial policy.
in writing. - i support the telecommunications package because i consider the internet to be an essential means for education and for the exercise of our freedom of expression and access to information. this initiative recognises that access to/use of the internet is a fundamental right of european citizens. i congratulate mrs regina bastos, who was the only portuguese member of this conciliation. i'm advocating a free internet without that meaning unregulated. as in the real world, the virtual world of the internet is the scene of illicit and illegal activities from uploading video/music files to encouraging terrorism, to child pornography, ... the european parliament, against many national governments, has succeeded in ensuring that all users enjoy the rights and guarantees provided for in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr). thus, any restriction on the fundamental rights and freedoms of internet users, such as a cut-off of access, should comply with the echr and general principles of law and, in particular, be authorised in advance by a judicial decision, while safeguarding procedural guarantees, the presumption of innocence and the right to privacy, without prejudice to specific mechanisms in cases of urgency justified by state security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs trautmann because i believe that the current agreement goes far beyond what was possible in the earlier stages of the process, particularly as regards consumer rights. i consider it essential to introduce measures to ensure the rights and guarantees of fixed and mobile telephone users and internet users in the field of freedom of expression and information. it is important to harmonise the internal telecommunications market by promoting competition between undertakings while strengthening the independence of national regulatory bodies from their governments. it was also important to ensure more modern management of radio spectrum by creating mechanisms to make these services more easily available in rural areas.
in writing. - i welcome the commitment reached between parliament and the council to introduce in the framework directive adequate protection for users in the event of restrictions on access to services and applications via electronic communications networks. i consider that the rule of law requires that no one may be restricted in access to information and use of electronic communications networks unless this is done in strict compliance with the principle of the presumption of innocence, and that the restriction of access must be preceded by a prior, fair and impartial procedure which guarantees the right of the persons concerned to be heard and the right to effective judicial protection. i also believe that it is particularly important to strengthen the mechanisms for the independence of national regulatory authorities so that they can be effective market regulators, promoting fair competition between operators, and the mechanisms for cooperation between the various european regulators, so that a more transparent and competitive market can be created, which will mean a gain for users in the quality of the services provided.
in writing. - at the end of october the council adopted most of the texts negotiated with the european parliament on the so-called telecommunications package, with some exceptions included in the trautmann report. the negotiations on this text continued in the conciliation committee, where the text now under vote was accepted. it is true that the agreed text contains some of the proposals put forward by our group in defence of the rights of users. however, it is insufficient, since it allows exceptions to procedural guarantees in cases of urgency, although they must be justified and comply with the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. but the main problem with the text is the scope, since it refers only to limitations imposed by the member states, not to limitations imposed by private companies. in fact, the european union seems more interested in creating the internal telecommunications market, just to serve the interests of the economic groups that dominate the sector, than in defending the fundamental rights and freedoms of end users, which can only be deserving of our disagreement.
in writing. - the express vote is justified, in particular, by the fact that the new european legislation for the telecommunications sector will strengthen the rights of fixed and mobile telephone users and internet users and boost competition. the most relevant of these new rules will be the strengthening of consumer rights, guarantees of internet access and the protection of personal data, taking into account that the eu is increasingly an area of rights and freedoms.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement reached on the joint draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on pesticides, approved by the conciliation committee, which will create a legal framework and establish harmonised rules for the collection and dissemination of statistics on the sale and use of pesticides with a view to their sustainable use.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and call on the council to withdraw its proposal.
in writing. - the third pillar, which is of the utmost importance for the security of the european area, and therefore agrees that this issue should be assessed under the lisbon treaty, taking into account the effects it will have on cooperation policy.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and call on the council to withdraw its proposal.
in writing. - without neglecting the importance of the european police office (europol), and without prejudice to the general support which it should receive, this is a matter of the utmost importance, the third pillar, for the security of the european area. i therefore agree that this issue should be assessed under the lisbon treaty, given its effects on cooperation policy.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and call on the council to withdraw its proposal.
in writing. − four initiatives were presented to us within europol, aimed at introducing new rules on confidentiality of information; implementation with regard to regulating europol's relations with its partners, including the exchange of personal data and classified information; determination of the list of third countries and organisations with which it should conclude agreements; and implementation applicable to analysis files. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore support their position of not taking a position on the substance of these proposals, rejecting them and asking the commission or the council to make a statement in plenary committing themselves to submitting a new decision within six months of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in practical terms, it should be recalled that the council may in any case take a position before the end of the year on the current initiatives, which are merely a consultation of the ep, since they are four implementing measures which are due to come into force on 1 january 2010.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and call on the commission to withdraw its proposal.
in writing. - without neglecting the importance of the european police office (europol), and without prejudice to the general support which it should receive, this is a matter of the utmost importance, the third pillar, for the security of the european area. i therefore agree that this issue should be assessed under the lisbon treaty, given the effects it will have on cooperation policy. i therefore consider that until it comes into force any decision on this sensitive matter is premature, since we are talking about the security of european space.
in writing. − the european crime prevention network was set up in 2001, but has so far not produced very positive results, due to numerous organisational failures that have prevented it from developing its potential effectively, and has already been subject to internal review on two occasions. the present initiative seeks to repeal that 2001 decision by proposing a restructuring of the network which in my view appears to be very limited and clearly insufficient to solve the existing problems. it is therefore essential to carry out a more serious and structurally more ambitious reform of this network. the swedish presidency's insistence that the ep should take a decision before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is therefore unacceptable. not only because it is a weak initiative, but also because it asks the ep to renounce the institutional prerogatives that the lisbon treaty gives it in the field of crime prevention, just a matter of days before the new treaty enters into force.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and ask the council not to formally adopt the initiative before the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the european prevention network (epn) was set up in 2001 to identify measures and exchange actions in crime prevention and to strengthen the network of national authorities responsible for crime prevention. after seven years, an external evaluation of the repc concluded that there were many areas for improvement in the functioning of the institution. it is of the utmost importance for the security of the european area to develop different aspects of crime prevention at eu level and at the same time to support the prevention and combating of national and local crime phenomena. given the sensitivity of the issues raised in this report, i agree with the decision to ask the council for a new proposal, in co-decision, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament who has always paid particular attention to issues relating to crime prevention, security and police cooperation, i recognise the fundamental importance of europol for the creation of a european security area and for the prevention of trans-european crime, as well as the need to strengthen it at various levels, including those discussed here. but the main question under discussion today is whether the european parliament, less than a week after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should renounce its new institutional prerogatives in the field of crime prevention and police cooperation and thus renounce the possibility of intervening in the decision on all these matters under the codecision procedure. i believe that this should not be the case and that this parliament should fully assume its new responsibilities in these matters. i therefore vote in favour of this report and call on the kingdom of sweden and the kingdom of spain to withdraw their initiative.
in writing. - we have always advocated the need for the eu to provide solidarity aid to countries in need and that this aid should be directed to projects of real interest to their populations. eu aid has, however, shown little solidarity. the interests of big business and financial capital and the great powers almost always override solidarity. this is also the case with the aid to georgia which we have just voted on. the financial assistance is mainly intended to finance the imf recommendations and its policy of structural adjustment, i.e. the insistence on the same neoliberal policies that led to the economic and financial crisis that this country is facing. these same reasons also justify our abstention in the other reports. in addition, there is no guarantee that the funds decided upon will not support, even indirectly, the rearmament of georgia after the attack by its troops on the populations of the provinces of south ossetia and abkhazia, which led to war with russia. we could not accept a decision which could lead to a further militarization of relations between the countries of the caucasus region, whose energy and geostrategic wealth mobilizes the will of the eu and its monopolies.
in writing. − the macrofinancial assistance programme is very important in helping to balance the finances of european nations which have recently emerged from armed conflict and which are facing financial difficulties in their budget deficits and balance of payments as a result of such events. this aid is important if the process of reconstruction in these same countries is to be carried out peacefully, which will only be possible with international help. such assistance also ensures that these areas of instability do not jeopardise security and peace in europe, in particular because of the refugees/displaced people caused by these conflicts. the eu must thus be a space of solidarity, and this support for georgia must be in line with the relevant aspects mentioned above.
in writing. − the macrofinancial assistance programme is also very important in helping to restore the financial balance of european nations that have been through the recent global crisis and have been damaged by the consequences of that crisis in their main trading partners, notably russia in the specific case of armenia. the financial imbalances are budgetary and balance of payments imbalances. this aid is important in order to make armenia face the crisis more consistently and to prevent social instability which could lead to mass exits of migrants, which could cause problems in the european area. the eu should thus be a space of solidarity, with this support for armenia being in line with the relevant aspects mentioned above.
in writing. - in the specific case of serbia, the macrofinancial assistance programme is very important to help its financial balance, as this country, in addition to the global crisis, has also emerged from an armed conflict whose effects are still being felt. this aid is an important instrument for the financial balance of serbia and for strengthening the stabilisation of the situation in the entire balkan region. serbia and its economy play a very important role in the process of regional integration and its participation in european integration is also essential. the eu must thus be a space of solidarity, and this support for serbia must be in line with the relevant aspects mentioned above.
in writing. − the macrofinancial assistance programme is very important in helping bosnia and herzegovina to balance its finances in the face of the adverse effects of the global crisis on its economy. the aid will be reflected in a better performance of its economy in terms of budget deficit and balance of payments. bosnia is also in a sensitive region, so its economic and financial stability is important, thus contributing to the stabilisation of the situation in the entire balkan region. the eu must thus be a space of solidarity, and this support for bosnia must be in line with the relevant aspects mentioned above.
in writing. - i regard this report on the commission proposal to amend the common system of value added tax as a means of achieving greater simplification and harmonization. in fact, by bringing together in a single proposal certain aspects relating to vat on the supply of natural gas, electricity and heating and/or cooling; the tax treatment of joint ventures set up in accordance with article 171 of the ec treaty; the determination of certain consequences of enlargement of the union; and the conditions for exercising the right to deduct vat paid in advance, it will be possible to make vat more effectively applied.
in writing. the council proposal aims to clarify certain provisions concerning the importation and place of taxation of gas and electricity supplies, to include in the directive the derogations agreed for bulgaria and romania when they joined the eu, and to clarify and strengthen the basic rule of the right to deduct which states that it arises only in so far as the goods and services are used by a taxable person and for the needs of his professional activity. however, the text adopted today does not respond to certain specific features of national markets, such as the use of butane and propane gas. in portugal, as in other european countries where citizens have low incomes and where integration into the european natural gas networks is relatively new and extremely costly, the use of butane and propane for domestic use and in micro and small enterprises is an unavoidable reality. in addition, the citizens who use this type of energy are usually the most deprived, so the vat directive discriminates against this population in relation to those with higher incomes. the amendments to the report also seem to limit the scope for action by the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic as regards the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations, as i believe that the existence of a regulatory framework and guidelines on the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations will contribute to the protection, in the short and long term, of the maritime zone, if they are intended to permanently retain carbon dioxide in those formations and do not have significant adverse effects on the marine environment, human health and other legitimate uses of european maritime areas, in particular the portuguese and in particular the azores.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rosbach report on a proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european community, of amendments to annex ii and annex iii to the convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic (ospar convention) concerning the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations. however, it is important to ensure that the technology for the geological capture and storage of carbon dioxide, which has not yet been tested, is applied in accordance with the strictest safety standards laid down in the directive on this matter.
in writing. − geological storage of carbon dioxide has been suggested as a possible solution to mitigate the climate effects of an increase in anthropogenic concentrations of this gas in the atmosphere. although this solution raises a number of reservations as to its future applicability - particularly in view of the still early stage of development of the techniques used, their foreseeable high cost and the possible associated risks - it is necessary to continue the studies which have been carried out in this field, taking into account that some of the results obtained so far provide positive indications in this respect. however, it should be noted that the continuation of studies on this possibility, and its possible future application, can in no way compromise the necessary energy paradigm shift aimed at a significant reduction in the current dependence on fossil fuels. in addition, both the environmental impacts and the safety of storage technologies should be rigorously assessed. the resolution adopted safeguards these aspects. that is why we are voting in favour.
president of the commission. − first of all, the president of the council and the high representative are not there representing a part of europe: they represent all of europe. let me say that i was very happy also with the nomination of herman van rompuy. when prime minister reinfeldt put forward his name it was evident that this was the name that could secure consensus around the table. and the fact that he comes from belgium, bringing instinctive support to the community method and being instinctively pro-european – that is a very good tribute to belgium as well. having said this, with regard to the importance of the new member sates, i think you have already made their importance clear by the election of mr buzek as president of the european parliament: someone coming from a new member state, someone who has given so much for the reunification of europe. so, when we are in these positions, i am not here representing one country or one region: we are representing the whole of europe.
mr president, last week the council took note of the agreement between the institutions on the 2010 budget. the consequences of the copenhagen decisions are not, and could not have been, contained in that agreement or commitment. these should be the subject of an amending budget. my question to you is very simple: given the difficulties that have arisen in financing the second tranche of the economic recovery plan for this budget, where does the commission intend to find the resources to finance the first year of the fight against climate change, which will be at least two billion euros? and this value will be increasing every year and therefore where will it get itself?
mr president, i believe that this house would welcome a stockholm programme which is concrete, precise and which really moves towards a people's europe. unfortunately, i think we're a little short of what we could have had. unfortunately, there is a certain tendency in the stockholm programme to be vague, inconclusive and general, and i must say that the lack of democratic control or the lack of intervention, of real intervention by parliament which changes and has practical effects, is part of the problem of an inconclusive and too general programme. i should like to give a concrete example in the case of immigration policies. we all follow the implementation of easo with great interest, but i think that very few steps have been taken in the case of, for example, the opening of legal immigration channels, which would be absolutely necessary, or the directive, for example, on seasonal immigrants, which we have been waiting for so long and which is not yet covered by the stockholm programme.
mr president, i warmly congratulate vice-president barrot and the swedish presidency on the stockholm programme. the stockholm programme is good news for all those who argue that europe is much more than a common market. the construction of a people's europe requires a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. i applaud the balanced weight of the three lines of this triangle, contrary to some more radical views, all three are necessary. security without freedom is dictatorship, freedom without security is anarchy, and justice is not possible without freedom and security. this five-year programme is a return to the ambition of tampere and aims to make significant progress in many areas. it is important, however, to ensure that the objectives set are achieved. there must be effective implementation of the legislation and instruments already adopted. the european citizens will not take us seriously if we do not pass the test of effectiveness. it is not possible, for example, to call for the creation of an entry/exit system by inviting the commission to submit a proposal for this system to start operations in 2015, when it is not even known when sis ii and vis will start operations, given the enormous delays and the set of difficulties encountered. i hope that a common european asylum system will be established by 2012 and that there will be a common immigration policy, both in terms of welcoming and integrating immigrants and in terms of effectively combating illegal immigration. finally, we have a lot to do together at the level of the citizens' europe. there's no point in wasting time on subjects that are not your area of expertise. the fact that the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, and that the commission has been asked to do so, is a very good thing.
we have always advocated that the european union's policy on the relocation of companies should be reviewed and we have always considered that the globalisation fund is only a palliative for workers who are victims of the strategy of multinationals or the lack of an appropriate industrial policy that focuses on production and quality employment with rights. that is why we insist on other policies of development and social progress. but we also think that irish workers should not be doubly harmed by the profit strategy and social dumping of the multinational dell, which has closed in ireland and received support to move to poland. that is why we support this report. however, we want answers from the european commission on the future. we want a fundamental change in policies, effective control of support for multinationals, a genuine industrial policy and a decisive commitment to the creation of jobs with rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. we are confident, however, that the commission will be able to answer our question. it has to do, as has already been said, with the current state of the euro-mediterranean free trade area, initially planned for 2010. in fact, one of the projects resulting from the barcelona process, which began in 1955, is the creation of a free trade area in the mediterranean by 2010, which should be based on a regional perspective and include a north-south and a south-south network of this free trade area, a goal which, however, remains very distant, and therefore the following questions: does the commission consider that the creation of this euro-mediterranean free trade area in 2010 was a realistic objective from the outset? can the commission substantiate its reply? secondly, parliament is aware that a new euro-mediterranean roadmap will be adopted soon, and possibly a new mechanism to facilitate trade and investment in the region. can the commission provide more details on the actual practical aspects and implications of such a mechanism? thirdly, can the commission comment on the current state of the agadir agreement, on the union's contribution to the reformulation of that agreement and, more generally, on the south-south dimension of the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean? fourthly, can the commission state how it has incorporated the recommendations contained in the sustainability impact assessment carried out by the university of manchester in order to take account of social cohesion and sustainable development in the negotiations, as called for in that study? fifthly, can the commission explain to parliament what was at stake in the renegotiation of the association agreement with syria after it was frozen in 2004? sixthly, can the commission comment on the negotiations with libya, their objectives and the current state of the negotiations? seventh, several mediterranean countries have expressed interest in deepening and/or extending their trade agreements with the union. can the commission first inform parliament about this new generation of association agreements? secondly, to inform parliament whether, in the light of the new powers which the treaty of lisbon confers on parliament in the field of trade, the commission will be able to take account of an earlier resolution of parliament in the negotiation of these new agreements. these are the questions, madam president, commissioner. given the current interest in the barcelona process and the union's southern neighbourhood, we believe that the answer to these questions is of great timeliness and importance.
mr president, we must make two points about the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. these are the words that come to mind, from the dominican lacordaire: between the strong and the weak, between the rich and the poor, it's freedom that enslaves, it's the law that sets you free. we cannot ignore the obvious and significant socioeconomic asymmetries and the very different state of development of the productive systems of the countries of the northern and southern mediterranean. the liberalization of trade, particularly in sensitive sectors such as agriculture and fisheries, has been an unquestionable factor in the worsening of the present economic and social crisis, by the pressure it is putting on the weakest productive systems, on employment and on social rights, by the increase in dependence, particularly serious in the food sector, by jeopardizing the free and sovereign development of all countries. we also recall the situation in palestine and western sahara, which we have already discussed, and which we cannot ignore in this debate.
mr president, this is an important debate because i believe it is the last one in which we are discussing names. it is indeed time to turn the page, to talk about policies, to talk about the challenges facing the european union. i would like to emphasize one: the subject of combating the crisis. it is one of the most unifying days in the history of the european political institutions. it is time to welcome the council's concern and, in particular, the swedish presidency. it is time to congratulate the commission and its president, who have always been very concerned about the fight against the crisis, and to stress that the european parliament itself, through a special committee, has shown a great willingness to discuss this matter. but this is also the time when there have been discrepancies between what is said by policy makers and what has been said by central bank governors, both at national and european level. first, we must be cautious about the end of the crisis. this is not the time to lift measures to support state economies and enterprises. but it's also time to chart the path. central bankers have been warning governments of an ambitious plan to correct deficits. the years vary. they even oppose certain policies, such as those that seek to lower taxes, in a message to some governments. i am sorry that the portuguese government is not following the path of lowering taxes. the way forward must be competitiveness, and the message of this concept must be clear: more competitiveness, more stimulus, more growth, more support for business, more europe to support growth and employment.
in writing. the next european council intends to lay the foundations for the future of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it will do so at a time when unemployment in europe is at historic levels and the economy is in recession, plunged into a deep crisis. eight years later, reality is showing: the declared objectives have failed all along the line. the causes of this failure lie in what has early proved to be the real agenda of this strategy: the deregulation of industrial relations and the correlative devaluation of work, the attack on social rights, the dismantling of essential public services, the privatisation and liberalisation of key sectors of the economy, the imposition of the market as an absolute in growing spheres of collective life. the workers and the people have every reason to aspire to a deep break with this agenda. to a change of course that needs to be made. the change that is required, among other things, is the recognition of education as a right, not as a service, a more marketable sector; the democratisation of access to knowledge and culture; the appreciation of work and workers' rights; the defence of the productive sectors, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; quality public services for all; a fairer distribution of the wealth created.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 24 million to support workers made redundant in belgium. we voted in favour of the directive because we are on the side of those who need it, those who give their sweat and their intelligence to companies and who are ultimately the victims of an unfair economic system, of unbridled competition for profits and with devastating social effects. that said, the role of this adjustment fund must be assessed. in 2009, only €37 million of the €500 million available was mobilised. the fund is not reflecting the reason it was created. secondly, this fund does not support the unemployed directly, but national safety systems at work. the fund, because they are so different from each other, ends up reproducing the inequalities in the distribution systems themselves. in portugal, the fund supports an unemployed person with eur 500. in ireland, he supports him with 6,000 euros. thirdly, the dell case shows how it is possible to support workers who are made redundant in ireland and the multinational company that made them redundant, which is now receiving another type of public funding, in poland. dell, to set up a new factory in poland, received money while acquiring new positions in the us markets, and in the third quarter of this year, it reported profits of around $337 million. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the fund to cover the whole of the community.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, to ensure that we have serious and binding results in the fight against climate change, there are four principles that must be ensured, and i would like to refer to them again. they were here today too, the vote. the first concerns the need for us to reach an agreement which is legally binding. the second concerns the need to ensure that strict policy targets are met, including targets for emission reductions. we must have ambitious goals in this respect. i think we could have gone further than we did today. the third point is to ensure the necessary public funding to enable us to combat this climate change problem. the fourth and final point - which i think is very relevant to consider - is that it should be global, not just a regional agreement, and this has to be through a process anchored in democratic participation involving all countries. i think that the resolution we have adopted here today is less good - so to speak - than the one that was previously adopted by the committee on the environment. however, i think that what should be safeguarded here is really the result and the effort that has been made over this time and so we leave for copenhagen with a very positive work that has been done in the european parliament. i sincerely hope that we will fight hard and that we will be able to implement what we have agreed here today.
in writing. − at the end of the last parliamentary term, in april, the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge to the council for the implementation of the 2007 budget, mainly due to the lack of transparency in the accountability of the use of the community budget. in particular, parliament considered it important to have greater transparency and closer parliamentary scrutiny of council expenditure on the european common security policy/european security and defence policy (cfsp/esdp). the report adopted today finally gives the council a discharge, since it considers that parliament has obtained a satisfactory response from the council to the requests made in the resolution of last april. it does, however, leave some caveats for the next discharge procedure, namely: the council will monitor progress made by the council in closing all extra-budgetary accounts, publishing all administrative decisions (when these are used as the legal basis for budget lines) and sending its annual activity report to the ep. the council's step towards accountability for the use of the community budget is a slight step forward, but we consider that the information available on cfsp/esdp expenditure is still very insufficient and therefore we remain reserved.
in writing. the new tyre labelling regulation is part of the community's co2 strategy, which sets targets to be achieved through reductions in vehicle emissions. from november 2012, tyres will be labelled in the eu according to their energy efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions. tyres account for 20 to 30% of the energy consumed by vehicles due to their rolling resistance. by regulating the use of energy-efficient, safe and low-noise tyres, we are simultaneously contributing to the reduction of environmental damage through lower fuel consumption and to greater consumer protection through market competition. i therefore welcome the creation of another instrument which represents a further step towards an energy-sustainable europe.
in writing. - i am pleased that instead of a directive there is a regulation on tyre labelling, as suggested by the european parliament. from november 2012, tyres will be labelled according to their energy efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions. european citizens will have more information to choose the right tyres to reduce fuel costs and help reduce energy consumption, and will be able to make a more environmentally friendly choice, reducing their environmental footprint. on the other hand, labelling will lead to more competition between producers. this labelling has environmental advantages. it should be noted that road transport is responsible for 25% of carbon dioxide emissions in europe. tyres, as they account for 20 to 30% of the energy consumed by vehicles, can play an important role in reducing these emissions. for passenger vehicles, the choice of more efficient tyres can result in a saving of 10% in fuel costs. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - the express vote is justified, in particular, by the fact that this report contributes to two essential points: the improvement of the information available to enable a choice of tyres that is more environmentally friendly and the fact that, by making this choice, we are contributing to greater energy efficiency, since tyres account for 20% to 30% of the total fuel consumption of vehicles.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers who have been personally affected by redundancies resulting from the profound changes in international trade. the egf finances in particular job-search assistance, specific retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship, support for self-employment and income supplements for special temporary activities. in the long term, these measures are intended to help these workers find and retain a new job. my country, portugal, has benefited from the egf twice: in 2008, following the 1 549 redundancies in the automotive sector in the lisbon region and the alentejo, and in 2009, following the 1 504 redundancies in 49 textile companies in the north and centre of the country. the crucial role of this fund is clear. however, the question put by mrs berès points out that there is a situation which must be clarified by the european commission. we must prevent the allocation of funds or state aid in one member state from resulting in job losses elsewhere in the eu. i therefore agree with the need to ensure effective coordination of european financial aid, preventing companies from seeking to make a profit by creating and destroying jobs.
in writing. - as i have already said, even before the outbreak of the current financial crisis, which has intensified and aggravated some of the symptoms we have already felt, it was clear that globalisation and the resulting business relocation were having a serious impact on the lives of many people. if we add to this the present distrust of the markets and the retreat from investment, it becomes clear that we are living in a particularly difficult time and that there is an exceptional need to have recourse to mechanisms, also exceptional, to help the unemployed and to promote their reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the european globalisation adjustment fund has been used on several occasions to mitigate the impact of european workers' exposure to the global market. the cases described in this report by mr böge are again worthy of consideration, although there are some doubts whether they will all really qualify, and there is therefore an advantage in presenting the applications separately in the future. i reiterate my conviction that the european union cannot but work together to promote a more robust, free and creative european market, which generates investment and jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) is an instrument for responding to a specific crisis at european level caused by globalisation, and this applies to the present situation. this fund provides individual, specific and time-limited support directly to dismissed workers. it is argued that there is no disproportion in the allocation of this fund per worker as has been found. the esf (european social fund) also supports the european employment strategy and member states' policies on full employment, quality and productivity at work, promotes social inclusion, including access to employment for disadvantaged people, and reduces employment disparities at national, regional and local level. this is a crucial fund for strengthening economic and social cohesion. the present situation calls for a strong, correct and rapid implementation of the esf. it is clear that the egf and the esf have different, complementary objectives and that one cannot replace the other. as an extraordinary measure, the egf must have an autonomous financing, and it is a very serious mistake if the financing of the egf, a short-term measure, is made at the expense of the esf or any other structural fund.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of this. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries that respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to help them to regain access to a new job in the future. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries, notably portugal and spain, and it is now up to belgium and ireland to provide this aid.
in writing. - i welcome the amendments proposed to the rules of procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to highlight one of the aspects which i consider to be of the greatest importance as we witness the negotiations of the new agreement which will replace the kyoto protocol in january 2013. with the lisbon treaty, the fight against climate change at international level becomes a specific objective of eu environmental policy. the lisbon treaty introduces support for international action to combat climate change in the list of objectives defining its environmental policy. the lisbon treaty also gives europe new powers in the fields of energy, scientific research and space policy. energy is now a shared competence, paving the way for a common european policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr david martin on the adaptation of parliament's rules of procedure to the treaty of lisbon, as some of the european parliament's internal rules need to be amended in view of the increased powers resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in particular the increase in legislative power, which will allow it to legislate on an equal footing with the governments of the member states on a greater number of matters.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. i believe that the significant increase in the powers of the european parliament, which calls all members of parliament to new challenges, is an important test of their ability to make proposals and their sense of responsibility. i cannot therefore fail to welcome a change of regiment which will bring the chamber more into line with the provisions of the treaties. i would particularly like to highlight the increasingly important role that national parliaments and the initiatives of the member states are playing in the process of european integration. i hope that the principle of subsidiarity, which is the subject of particular attention by the european legislator, will be increasingly respected and fulfilled by all european decision-makers.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, the rules of procedure need to be adapted to make them compatible with the new rules and powers of the european parliament. with these amendments to the rules of procedure, the european parliament is preparing for the increased powers it will have with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, with the arrival of 18 new meps, the increase in legislative powers and the new budgetary procedure. future cooperation with national parliaments is also relevant here.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty will bring more speed, legitimacy and democracy to the decision-making process in the european union, which is responsible for measures that affect us as citizens on a daily basis. the european parliament in particular will see its legislative power increased by sharing responsibility equally with the european council on most matters dealt with by the institutions. with the treaty of lisbon, the so-called codecision will become the rule and the ordinary legislative procedure. for my part, as an elected member of parliament, i am aware of the challenge this change brings. this report in particular takes up the work already carried out, and almost completed, in the previous legislature, by adapting the rules of procedure governing parliament's work in the light of the new treaty, which is due to enter into force at the beginning of next month. some of the amendments are purely technical and others relate to updates which parliament has taken the opportunity to put into practice. overall, the report reflects a commitment that satisfies the political family to which i belong, the epp, by incorporating in a balanced way issues such as subsidiarity and proportionality, as well as the strengthening of the european parliament's cooperation with national parliaments. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an ambitious and legally binding international agreement in copenhagen, because i believe that the conclusion of this agreement can lead to a new sustainable paradigm, which stimulates social and economic growth, encourages the development of green technologies as well as renewable energy and energy efficiency, and reduces energy consumption and allows the creation of new jobs. i think that the adoption of this resolution, which explicitly states that the international agreement should be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, with the industrialized countries taking a leading role in reducing their emissions and taking responsibility for providing financial and technical support to the developing countries, is in line with a certain global balance. it is therefore essential that the union takes a leading position in this area in order to safeguard the well-being of future generations.
in writing. - it is essential that a politically binding agreement emerges from the copenhagen conference. it should contain operational elements, which could take effect immediately, and a timetable to allow agreement on a legally binding text during 2010. the agreement must involve all the countries that have signed the convention and it is important that commitments, both in terms of emission reductions and in terms of financing, are clearly identified. while the industrialized countries must take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the more economically advanced developing countries also have a role to play, contributing according to their responsibilities and respective capacities. industrialized countries and emerging countries with more advanced economies should be subject to comparable efforts. this is the only way to reduce distortions of international competition. it is also essential to define the architecture of the financing so that it is sustainable in the medium and long term. the financing shall be sourced from the private sector, carbon market and public sector in industrialised countries and more economically advanced developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the copenhagen conference on climate change because i believe it reflects a good parliamentary commitment to the fundamental aspects which should guide the negotiations on a future international agreement on this subject, especially as regards the issues of adaptation, financing mechanisms or deforestation. i repeat that reaching a legally binding international agreement in copenhagen, which is ambitious and realistic and involves all the parties, is also a matter of social justice.
in writing. - as i have said before, it is essential that a comprehensive, legally binding political agreement on climate change is adopted so as not to put european industry in an anti-competitive situation. the european effort must be directed towards the search for an agreement which requires a joint effort, and not just from the eu. the idea of a tax on international financial transactions as the solution to finance climate change adaptation and mitigation by developing countries is not in my view appropriate, as it will sacrifice the economy (especially in a crisis context like the one we are currently experiencing), trade, wealth creation. the cost of such a tax to society at large (increased tax burden reflected on all taxpayers and consumers) and its impact on the financial market (reduced liquidity and credit flow to firms and households) cannot be ignored. i believe that this is not the way to regulate the market and that other less damaging alternatives to the world economy can be considered.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu must maintain a leading and exemplary role in combating climate change. it should be noted that the eu has gone beyond the kyoto targets. i am in favour of the copenhagen agreement being binding. i have therefore tabled an amendment to parliament's resolution on this subject, calling for an international sanctioning regime to be included in the final text. i believe that the agreement must be global, timetabled and demanding. if we are not ambitious, we will create a small instrument that will be even less effective than the kyoto protocol, which already provides for international sanctions. it is therefore hoped that effective control will be established and that the agreement will incorporate a review clause so that it can be easily updated. i also argue that china and india cannot be dismissed as being responsible when they contribute a large percentage of the world's emissions, while our industries are making tremendous efforts to reduce them. the united states has a strong responsibility for the success of this summit. i hope that the president of the united states, barack obama, will demonstrate that he deserves the nobel peace prize, because the fight against climate change will contribute to the peace and happiness of all peoples!
in writing. − the resolution adopted contains positive aspects such as: the importance of maintaining an international commitment beyond 2012; the need for reduction targets to be in line with the latest scientific data; the call for the us to set binding targets that were declared (but not yet assumed) in the last election campaign; emphasising the historical responsibility of industrialised countries for greenhouse gas emissions; the advocacy of energy efficiency and increased r & d & t activities. however, the preponderance of so-called market solutions and particularly carbon trading is unavoidable. this is a political and ideological option which not only does not guarantee the achievement of the set reduction targets, but is in fact the most serious threat to the achievement of the proclaimed environmental objectives. the experience of the operation of the european transaction scheme since 2005 is illustrative of this. carbon trading aims to market the earth's ability to recycle carbon and thereby regulate the climate. thus, this capacity - which is the guarantee of life on earth as we know it - risks falling into the hands of the same corporations that have been degrading the planet, its natural resources and the climate.
in writing. - in the context of the copenhagen conference, it is very important to achieve an ambitious and legally binding international agreement on climate change. however, it is equally important that everyone should be involved, particularly china, india and brazil, given their considerable economic weight and intense industrial activity, and these countries should also commit themselves to pursuing ambitious goals and objectives, similar to those of other countries, albeit with the help, as far as possible, of other richer and more industrialized countries. it is also important that the united states should play its part in this important matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets priorities in fundamental chapters such as freedom, security and justice, in particular as regards reception and integration conditions for immigrants, the fight against discrimination, in particular on grounds of sexual orientation, access to justice and the fight against corruption and violence. it is essential to combat discrimination, whether on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, colour, descent and ethnic or national origin, as well as racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia, homophobia and violence. freedom of movement must also be guaranteed to all eu citizens and their families. in conclusion, the protection of citizens against terrorism and organised crime must also be ensured, and the regulatory framework must therefore be strengthened to deal with these very current threats, given their global dimension.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the stockholm programme, as i considered that the proposals contained therein clearly and precisely define the priorities for the coming years in the field of european legislation in the areas of freedom, security and justice, in the light of the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. it is essential to strike a better balance between the safety of citizens and the defence of their individual rights, and i would therefore like to stress the importance of applying the principle of mutual recognition to same-sex couples in the eu, as well as the creation of a european court of information affairs and the adoption of measures guaranteeing new rights for detainees.
in writing. - it has been a common practice in this parliament that the promotion of fracturing issues, which go far beyond the competences of the european union, is done by including them in texts on broader issues which would normally merit widespread support. i cannot but regret the use once again of this stealthy method which only serves to discredit this house and to increase the distance between the elected and the voters. it is well known that family law matters are fortunately within the sphere of action of the member states and it is therefore absolutely illegitimate and a clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity for the european parliament to try to coerce them into a unified understanding of these matters by seeking to enforce radical agendas. the recognition by the european parliament of same-sex unions which are valid in only four member states cannot be imposed on the others and constitutes a gross attempt to influence national legislators and public opinion, which deserves the strongest condemnation. when the charter of fundamental rights was adopted, there were fears that it would be misused in the future and that it would conflict with national legal systems. the present situation confirms that these predictions were correct.
in writing. the european parliament has approved by a majority the main lines of the european commission's proposal for the so-called stockholm programme, which are a strong attack on a central issue of state sovereignty such as justice. the expansion of joint actions in the field of police and judicial cooperation and cooperation between secret services, as well as the introduction of an internal security strategy and new measures for data exchange in the eu, are at the expense of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all those residing in eu countries. the development of a common migration policy based on the classification of immigrants according to a desirability scale, and in its most repressive aspect the use of frontex, violates their rights and ignores the human drama that is being experienced in many countries. the increasing use of surveillance and control of persons, as well as the practice of profiling, based on data mining techniques and their widespread collection, irrespective of whether citizens are innocent or guilty, for so-called prevention and control purposes, is worrying. the large sums of money funneled to the military-industrial complex and its research activities in the field of internal security are also disturbing.
in writing. - the stockholm programme addresses concerns of enhanced security, in particular in the fight against crossborder crime and terrorism, and respect for citizens' rights. the effort, which also stems from the new reality of the lisbon treaty, would lead to a responsible discussion on the essential issues relating to an area of freedom, security and justice at the service of citizens. unfortunately, some people have tried to contaminate the discussion of a fundamental issue, such as the stockholm programme, with a pointless and irrelevant issue of same-sex marriage, without even respecting the legitimate differences in the internal legal solutions of each country of the european union. whoever did this, for the sake of political tactics, did not care about the fate of the stockholm programme. the vote i have taken reflects the priority given to discussing the needs of this area of freedom, security and justice, at the service of the citizens. the commission has also expressed its disapproval of the strategy of those who wanted to contaminate this debate with a fracturing agenda which had nothing to do with it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the state of play of the euromed free trade area project. despite some progress, i regret that the main objectives of the euro-mediterranean partnership have not been achieved, putting into question their achievement by 2010. it is urgent to ensure that the euro-mediterranean integration process is taken up as a political priority of the eu, as the success of this process and the free trade area can contribute to peace, prosperity and security throughout the region.
in writing. - the mediterranean is the cradle of civilisation as we know it. on its shores, ideas and institutions that define the european civilisation have been born, matured and strengthened, inseparable from its history and its future projects. on their shores, too, deep rifts have been created, often resolved by force of arms, which have led to a painful political separation, the gradual alienation of their populations and the development separate, if not antagonistic, from what was once the centre of the world. the eu, which wants to be open to the world and to promote dialogue between its members and third countries, cannot but cherish the idea of a euro-mediterranean free trade area which would make it possible to further strengthen relations between the two sides of the mediterranean and also promote greater south-south convergence. it must be admitted that the results achieved so far do not correspond to the ambition behind this idea. the obstacles are many and of an economic and financial nature, but it is clear that the main obstacles are of an eminently political nature. we must persist and contribute to the re-establishment of a market on a mediterranean scale, which will bring people into closer contact and re-establish the links that have been broken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on compensation for passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline, as i consider it necessary to strengthen the protection of european passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of airlines by introducing new legislation or by revising existing legislation and by creating a reserve fund for compensation.
in writing. − commercial airlines have been in a deep crisis since the attacks of 11 september 2001, which has been aggravated by the current economic and financial crisis. the number of bankruptcies and the unpleasant situations of real helplessness in which passengers, many of them in transit, find themselves, is increasing. this lack of consumer protection is truly intolerable and deserves a european response, including the evaluation of airlines, the promotion of aid to passengers who are victims of such situations and compensation for damage and loss. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams.
in writing. − the increasing number of airline bankruptcies affecting thousands of citizens of the member states has led to the need for the eu to take action to defend them. in fact, it is important to safeguard the rights of those who use airplanes as a means of transport on a daily basis. in that sense, the express vote.
in writing. − european regions that excel as tourist destinations must ensure the highest level of service and quality to users of services in this sector. madeira is an example of this, having been ranked last week as one of the world's top tourist destinations by the world tourism organization, which gave the region the highest ranking in 13 out of 15 evaluation parameters. in order to maintain this position in a highly competitive market, the work carried out by public and private entities with environmental, economic and social sustainability criteria must be continued. this objective also includes providing the maximum guarantees to tourists visiting the island with regard to their air travel and accommodation conditions. the resolution voted today goes in that direction, aiming to protect passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline by creating compulsory insurance and guarantee funds for these companies, as well as optional insurance for their customers. the commission is also invited to submit a proposal to compensate passengers of airlines that go bankrupt by ensuring their repatriation in the event of being detained at an airport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on origin labelling because it is based on the principle that consumer protection requires transparent and consistent trade rules, including origin labelling. in this respect, i support the commission's intervention, together with the member states, to defend the legitimate rights and expectations of consumers where there is evidence of fraudulent or misleading use of the indication of origin by non-community importers and producers.
in writing. - takes note of the need to ensure that consumers are adequately informed when making a choice about the purchase of certain products, in particular about their country of origin and the relevant safety, hygiene or environmental protection standards applicable to their production; i cannot, however, fail to mention that, when assessing the commission's proposal on origin labelling, i will pay particular attention to the appropriate framework for traditional products, so that the necessary and desirable greater protection of consumers cannot be fatal to small producers of traditional products. i will also pay particular attention to the mechanisms used to define origin, so that this does not become a competitive disadvantage for european producers vis-à-vis their competitors.
in writing. - we believe that the resolution adopted falls far short of what we believe that origin marking should be, namely, among other things, an instrument for the defence of industrial jobs in europe, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises, but also an instrument against social and environmental dumping. that is why we abstained. moreover, this resolution omits the consequences of the liberalization of world trade for employment and the industrial fabric in the various member states. it is not concerned with the many moves to seek easy profits and their consequences, such as the deindustrialization of vast areas, the increase in unemployment and the deterioration of economic and social conditions. it is a resolution which merely calls on the commission and the council 'to take all necessary measures to ensure a level playing field'. finally, we regret that the majority of the ep has rejected the proposals we put forward, which, among other things, aimed at preserving jobs, respecting workers' and consumers' rights, combating child labour or slavery and the importation of products from occupied territories, and which insisted on the need to withdraw european aid to companies and investors who resort to the relocation of their production.
in writing. - the express vote follows from the fact that the designation 'made in' is essential for the transparency of markets and for the proper information of consumers on the origin of the products they consume. the community economy needs to be strengthened by improving the competitiveness of eu industry in the world economy. we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers and for exporters and importers, taking into account the common social and environmental conditions.
may this international day for the elimination of violence against women be the beginning of the collapse of the wall of silence and indifference that still exists in our society about this real scourge that affects millions of women in the european union and the world. violence against women is a violation of human rights and an obstacle to their participation in social and political life, public life and work, preventing them from realizing their full rights as citizens, although the various types of violence, as already mentioned, also vary according to cultures and traditions, the economic and social crises of capitalism increase the vulnerability of women, worsening their exploitation and leading to poverty and marginalization, which also feeds trafficking in women and prostitution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the envi committee, the secretariat of my group and my assistant for the support they have given me. they were all excellent. on behalf of the committee on the environment, i would first of all like to express my regret that the swedish presidency has decided to close this dossier without waiting for the european parliament's report. this attitude represents an unacceptable disregard for the elected representatives of the european citizens. that is why i ask you on behalf of the committee on the environment: can the council confirm its intention to adopt conclusions on this issue at the council on 1 december 2009, despite parliament's timetable? why is the council rushing to adopt the recommendation without waiting for the european parliament's position? given that parliament has been consulted on the commission proposal, is the council prepared to take parliament's view into account when drawing up its conclusions? it should be clear that the environment committee supports the aims of the recommendation, as tobacco remains the main cause of death and disease in the european union. the envi committee would therefore like to see its timetable respected, so that a thorough debate on the subject and a position of parliament could be taken. exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, also known as secondhand smoke, is a significant additional source of mortality, morbidity and disability in the european union. secondhand smoke contains over 4,000 gaseous and particulate compounds, including 69 known carcinogens and many toxic agents. there is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke. the most conservative estimates point to thousands and thousands and thousands of people dying every year because of secondhand smoke, and this also represents significant burdens on the economy, burdens in direct medical costs and also indirect costs associated with lost productivity. considerable progress has been made in the creation of smoke-free areas in some member states in recent years. to date, more than one third of the member states have adopted comprehensive legislation banning smoking in workplaces and enclosed public spaces. however, significant differences in the level of protection against exposure to tobacco smoke remain within the eu. for example, workers in the hotel and catering sector are a particularly vulnerable occupational group due to the lack of comprehensive protection in most member states and the exceptionally high concentration of tobacco smoke in bars and restaurants. at eu level, the issue of smoke-free spaces has so far been the subject of several non-binding resolutions and recommendations, which do not provide detailed guidelines on how to create smoke-free spaces. the subject is also included in some directives adopted in the field of occupational health and safety, in some cases only indirectly and in others not ensuring a sufficient level of protection. i would remind you of article 8 of the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, which has so far been ratified by 26 member states and the community, which obliges all parties to ensure effective protection against exposure to tobacco smoke in workplaces, enclosed public spaces and public transport. we believe that only a total ban on smoking in enclosed workplaces, including the catering and hotel sector, public buildings and public transport, will ensure the protection of the health of workers and non-smokers and encourage smokers to stop smoking. i would like to conclude by saying that we hope that the council will take account of this resolution, which we hope will be adopted by the european parliament tomorrow.
a writer. - madam president, we support the call on the member states to take account of the strong social arguments in favour of ratifying the conventions which the ilo has considered to be up to date. we know that since 1919 the international labour organization has maintained and developed a system of international labour standards covering a wide range of subjects including work, employment, social security, social policy and related human rights. we therefore also agreed to the first version of the joint resolution presented here. but unfortunately, under pressure from the epp, the other signatories agreed to dilute the importance of the resolution and weaken its scope by including a reference to the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. we all know that it was in the name of the lisbon strategy that the european commission presented some of the worst proposals against labour and social rights, insisting on flexibility and deregulation of labour. who has forgotten the proposal to amend the working time directive, which aims to devalue work and make it even more precarious, to extend the working day, to call into question collective bargaining and the role of trade unions, exactly the opposite of what is advocated by the ilo conventions? it is mainly because of this regrettable reference to the so-called lisbon strategy that we have withdrawn our support for the resolution. but on behalf of the group of the european united left - nordic green left, we call on the member states to ratify the ilo conventions and we ask the european commission to take them into account in its proposals.
the figures illustrating world hunger and malnutrition, which we all know and see repeatedly, are so dramatic that it is almost obscene to mention them. the right to food is associated with the most sacred of all rights. the right to life, understood as having a minimum of dignity, and not as a mere struggle for survival. the fight against world hunger should therefore be the top priority of all political agendas and all resources should be mobilised to achieve this objective. unfortunately, we also all know that resources, including financial resources, are not always the main limitation. the problem is almost always in their management and use and in the absence of sound governance and effective coordination at global, regional and national levels. the draft resolution which is before us today - and which my group, the socialists and democrats, is one of the signatories to - contains proposals and recommendations which, if followed, can certainly make a major contribution to alleviating such a serious problem. i therefore urge the commission to give it due attention and, on the basis of it, to put forward legislative proposals and to adopt procedures to give concrete expression to them. the political time of difficulties and uncertainty we are living in is also a time of change in the policies which are the best instruments of intervention of the european union in this matter: the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, whose profound reforms we are now going to start. with the new powers that the lisbon treaty gives us, this is also a great opportunity for the european parliament to move from proclamations to concrete action. the european socialists are motivated by this challenge. we hope that the new commission and the other political groups will be available to accompany us in this mission.
madam president, the final declaration adopted at the last fao summit by its 193 member countries is unfortunately a real empty dish in the fight against hunger. there was no deadline and, above all, no definition of the concrete means and conditions for combating a scourge that affects more than six billion people. according to the data available, during the scant 90 seconds that this intervention will last, 15 children will die of hunger in the world. this is the most vivid and forceful libel against an unjust, exploitative, irrational and, for that very reason, historically condemned economic system. a system based on concrete policies and guidelines, and, by the way, mr louis michel, on protagonists and liberal rhetoric, which have led to the present situation: the promotion of the agro-industrial model, in line with the defence of the interests of the large agro-food industry, and the consequent qualitative impoverishment of the world agricultural sector. years and years of underinvestment in agriculture, of encouraging the abandonment of the agricultural sector, of the liquidation of small and mediumsized farms, a sector which provides the livelihood of 70% of the world's poor. market fundamentalism, privatisation and liberalisation policies and free trade have had and have the effect of abandoning the land, concentrating ownership and domination of production by a few and food dependency by the many. experts estimate that $44 million would be needed to end the scourge of chronic malnutrition. this is a much smaller sum than the transfer made by the states to big capital in order to save it from the systemic crisis which is now under way.
madam president, there is a great irony here, isn't there? what google has done, taking intellectual property, reproducing it for its own use, and at first clearly illegal, according to the american court's own findings, is what, on a small scale, we call piracy. why should it be any different when it's done by the individual user and when it's done by a huge company like google? so this must be our first principle: there must be no privilege for the great. the second principle is that we cannot depend on the goodwill of a monopoly. like many people here, i find google an interesting company. i think their idea is innovative and it's a good idea. but what if they later raise prices, as do, for example, the publishers of academic journals, who raise prices hundreds of times? what if they restrict access to certain books? they have a 15% quota for objectionable books. we need a true world digital library, in which a global consortium has the power of initiative, with universities controlling the quality that is not being controlled, with national libraries, and in which, of course, europe has a much greater power of leadership and initiative than it has now. it started with books, then we'll move on to art in european museums, and europe cannot miss this train.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the scurria framework report on the european year of volunteering (2011) for advocating greater support from the eu institutions for this sector, which involves millions of europeans and is essential for promoting solidarity and social inclusion. i believe that an increase in the budget and coordination at community level is necessary to enable the initiatives under the european year of volunteering to be strengthened in terms of awareness campaigns and the transnational exchange of ideas and good practice.
in writing. - volunteering is, in its simplest definition, goodwill in action. it's free, it's generous, it's free and it's uncommitted. it is also a fundamental pillar of any society, with the work of thousands of volunteers, young and old, acting formally or informally in the areas of health, care, education, environment or culture, making a difference in thousands of lives every day. the initiative to establish a european year of volunteering is therefore to be welcomed, in which the right emphasis should be given to these anonymous faces, the volunteers, making us all aware of their immense work and seeking to create more favourable conditions for them to develop their activities. this is in line with the cds, the first and only portuguese political party to look at the issue of volunteering and to make concrete proposals to help volunteers, giving them the dignity and recognition they deserve.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this report, despite some contradictions and partial aspects of it which we do not follow. volunteering undoubtedly plays an important role in society, promoting the values of solidarity and mutual aid and contributing, among other things, to social integration and the dissipation of feelings of discrimination. the report addresses key issues such as the social protection of the volunteer, focusing on issues such as health, safety and training, and the distinction between paid employment and voluntary activities. we believe, however, that it is necessary to ensure that volunteering does not replace state action and that it should not be used as a means of meeting needs in the field of social services. we are calling for the promotion of the activities of non-profit organizations, including many others, such as the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreation, cultural, youth and child-oriented associations, with effective and appropriate support. it is important to stress that voluntary work also depends on workers having free time, and that it is incompatible with exploitative situations, irregular or excessive working hours, low wages and precarious employment.
in writing. - despite all the criticisms that can be made, reality clearly demonstrates the enormous desire of many states to join the european union. the brutally disturbing histories of several of them, particularly in the balkans, have served to strengthen the conviction of the candidate countries that under the protective umbrella of the european union they would be free both from the expansionist tendencies of their neighbours and from russian influence. in the face of the countries listed, it is relatively easy to see that there is no equality between the states in their desire and conditions to join the european union. of this group, iceland stands out, of course, as its democratic traditions, the high living standards of its people and respect for the acquis communautaire put it at the forefront of the accession process. i am alert to the need to comply scrupulously with the copenhagen criteria and to fulfil the commitments arising from them, and the european union should not, out of unreasonable obstinacy, evade welcoming those who are actually prepared to do so.
in writing. − this resolution is another example where, on the subject of enlargement and on a communication published by the european commission entitled enlargement strategy and key challenges for 2009-2010, the majority of the european parliament wants to move forward with the recognition of kosovo, even stating that it 'welcomes the commission's intention to strengthen relations with kosovo, including exploring the possibility of kosovo participating in community programmes'. it thus encourages the future accession of a territory which has declared itself independent in flagrant violation of international law, claiming that it is a state which is the product of an illegal war, a state which operates on the basis of an illegal status which is not recognised by the un. the question of turkey is also not being dealt with properly, as it continues to occupy a member state of the european union - the northern part of cyprus - and does not respect the rights of the kurdish people as it should. so, although we believe that the question of enlargement of the european union is first and foremost a decision of the people of each country wishing to join, we voted against the report because of the way it is drafted and because of the negative aspects of the strategy it proposes to pursue, which, however, have no legislative value.
in writing. − the eu enlargement process must always be considered and any new accession must always respect common reference factors of the eu countries. i believe that turkey's accession should warrant a preliminary debate, which is to say that there are doubts which at least warrant such a debate. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the international day for the elimination of violence against women is an initiative of the un and the council of europe to raise awareness and raise awareness of victims of domestic violence and other forms of maltreatment. the situation in portugal is worrying in this area. the number of domestic violence crimes recorded by the apav increased by 9% compared to the same period in 2008. according to apav, physical and psychological abuse, threats and sexual crimes have increased the most since 2008. this year in portugal, 26 women have already died as victims of domestic violence. yet the vast majority of acts of violence remain unreported out of fear and shame. the eu must step up its action in this area. i agree with the need to encourage member states to develop national action plans to combat violence against women. we support all initiatives that can help to change mentalities, agreeing to the organisation of a european year to combat violence against women in order to denounce and alert the authorities and society to this worrying situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of violence against women, as i consider it necessary for the commission and the council to step up eu action in this area. it is urgent to equip the eu with a more comprehensive policy to combat violence against women, including through the preparation by the commission of a proposal for a directive, which will ensure a clear legal basis to combat all forms of violence against women, including trafficking. it is worth noting and welcoming the fact that the spanish presidency has made this a priority issue in its action programme.
in writing. − in a week in which the shocking numbers of cases of domestic violence in portugal have again made the news, i believe that violence against women and children is a subject that deserves serious reflection and action by governments. i condemn all violence, but especially that which is directed against those who are most vulnerable - socially, economically or emotionally - such as children and, often, women. states should therefore seek to eliminate all forms of violence against women and children, including trafficking for sexual exploitation, violations of their sexual self-determination and domestic violence. respect for human life and dignity is incompatible with the crimes of which many women and children in europe are victims, which is why strong policies to prevent violence and punish offenders are warranted.
in writing. − on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, we want to highlight this serious social, economic and political problem which challenges women's rights in a wide range of areas: at work, in the family, in society in general. violence against women is a violation of human rights and an obstacle to their participation in social and political life, public life and work, preventing them from fulfilling their role as full citizens. although the different types of violence also vary according to cultures and traditions, the economic and social crises of capitalism increase the vulnerability of women, both collectively and individually, exacerbating their exploitation and leading to poverty and marginalization, which also fuels trafficking in women and prostitution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system.
in writing. - when we talk about violence against women, we are faced with a reality that is very evident in all the member states, as one in four women is a victim of violence. in an eu which wants to defend the rights and freedoms of all its citizens, we must make every effort to put an end to this scourge. the adoption of this motion for a resolution is a very important step in that direction towards finding new solutions, hence the meaning of my vote.
in writing. - somalia is one of the most flagrant cases of the total disintegration of central power and its retreat into a tribal and belligerent reality, and is a hotbed of violence and instability that goes far beyond its borders. its coast has been under constant threat from armed groups who not only compete for control but also carry out intolerable acts of piracy against other vessels, including commercial, cargo and fishing vessels, humanitarian aid vessels and recreational vessels. these events, because of their gravity and frequency, call for a firm reaction on the part of the entire international community, to which the european union cannot remain indifferent. the european union must be committed to combating piracy and do everything in its power not only to analyse its causes and consequences but also to mobilise all the forces, somali and international, willing and able to deal with it. i cannot therefore fail to greet, in the person of its commander, the entire garrison of the portuguese frigate corte-real, which has distinguished itself in the fight against this scourge and has recently been honoured by the international maritime organisation.
in writing. - in all this somalia problem it is necessary to reaffirm that there can be no military solution to the crisis there and that the lack of financial resources in the country, caused by the international debt crisis, which has created a vacuum, which has been exploited for illegal fishing in its territorial waters, being one of the main reasons for somali fishermen losing their livelihoods, since the government of somalia was forced to suspend its coast guard for lack of resources. one of the key issues is therefore to ensure technical and financial support, including support for a process of conciliation and mediation between the parties to the civil war. the commission and the council should therefore review their political strategy for somalia, including operation eunavfor-atalanta, and should focus on the situation in the country in general, especially the need to address the humanitarian situation on the ground and to help to eradicate the real causes of the disastrous situation that is causing suffering to millions of somalis. finally, we reaffirm that the resources earmarked for development aid, i.e. the edf, must not be used for any military purpose.
in writing. - what is happening off the coast of somalia is reprehensible on every level and affects all countries in a transversal way. i therefore consider it very important that, as long as there is no political solution to the problem in somalia and as long as instability persists in that area, the security strategy implemented by operation atalanta should be continued or even strengthened as regards the means of action of the forces used in that operation.
in writing. - voting in line with the ppe, i cannot, however, fail to express some of the concerns which this motion for a resolution raises for me. firstly, i believe that tobacco policies should be decided by the states and that the role of the european institutions, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, should therefore remain at the level of non-binding recommendations. on the other hand, i also believe that states should promote anti-smoking policies but should not impose any restrictions on the freedom of choice of operators, especially in the hotel sector, where owners of establishments should have the choice to be smoke-free or not. in this respect, the law recently passed in portugal has proved to be balanced. my second concern is the proposed end to direct subsidies linked to tobacco production. as portugal is also a tobacco producer, i believe that this type of policy should be examined with extreme caution. otherwise, it may cause serious damage to farmers who are unable to continue their production without being given any viable alternative. that is my view on paragraph 9 of this resolution.
in writing. - the protection of human health, the quality of life of workers in their workplaces and of the general population is at the heart of this resolution. that is why we voted in favour. it is necessary to increase the protection of non-smokers by avoiding passive exposure, but also to create the necessary conditions for monitoring and encouraging cessation of tobacco consumption. the prohibition policy should act in situations where it is indispensable. as regards direct subsidies linked to production, we support incentives for the conversion of tobacco production. we believe, however, that conditions should not be created to promote tobacco imports from outside the eu, thereby benefiting the big business of multinational tobacco companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of deleting paragraph 13 of the original text, which i transcribe as follows: 'invites the commission to submit to parliament and the council by 2011 a proposal for a legislative act on the prohibition of smoking in all indoor workplaces, including all indoor public buildings and public transport in the eu, for the protection of workers' health.' the deletion was approved in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity in this area. i believe that there is still a long way to go in each member state in creating smoke-free spaces, promoting effective awareness raising and implementing best practices for the implementation of article 14 (demand reduction measures for tobacco dependence and cessation). but i believe that these actions must be taken first of all by each state. the original text of the resolution confused tobacco production with consumption. i therefore welcome the adoption of the epp amendment which deletes part of paragraph 9 of the original text, thus eliminating the references to tobacco production. these two amendments improved the final resolution, the remaining points of which i regard as positive and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the fao world summit on food security - ending hunger on earth, because i believe that urgent action is needed to put an end to this scourge, which affects one sixth of the world's population. in view of the impacts of climate change on agriculture, in particular the decrease in productivity due to water scarcity, especially in countries already facing these problems, it is important to ensure the development of agricultural policies consistent with climate protection and the fight against hunger.
in writing. - knowing that more than 40 million people die of hunger every year and that every six seconds a child dies of malnutrition, none of us can remain indifferent to this global problem. the european union is the largest donor of development aid and humanitarian aid, but only a small part of that aid is channelled into the agricultural sector, which could meet the food needs of thousands of people who continue to suffer from malnutrition. it is therefore urgent that the european union should reflect on its development support policies and give greater prominence to support for agriculture in developing countries, a sector which is the source of income for over 70% of the working population. at the internal level too, the cap must adapt to the current crisis, with rising production costs for european farmers, by refraining from dismantling market support measures and/or reducing agricultural subsidies, paying particular attention to supporting small and mediumsized farmers and their access to credit, so that they can maintain their production despite the escalation in the price of the factors of production.
in writing. - by stressing that the fight against hunger must be rooted in the recognition of the right to food sovereignty; - by recognising the right of the national population to control agricultural land and other natural resources of vital importance to their food security. the resolution also calls attention to the importance of agriculture in the fight against hunger and stresses the importance of farmers' incomes. it remains to be seen whether this parliament will be consistent in the future with what it has adopted today. or if, as often happens, it makes just considerations and then, when it is necessary to implement them, it goes back on its word and passes legislation in violation of those principles. it is important to remember that the successive reforms of the cap, which were made in response to the liberalisation of agricultural markets under the wto and which were designed to serve the interests of the large agro-food companies, have contributed to the impoverishment of the world agricultural sector. agricultural production must be used first and foremost to feed the population, not to favour export monocultures.
in writing. - the phenomenon of hunger is a scourge that affects more and more people. as a space of solidarity, the eu must be at the forefront of tackling the problem it is creating. all european and global food security policies must be stepped up, as the global food crisis is one of the major threats to peace and security in the world.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. it was urgent to discuss here the recent tragedy caused by hurricane ida as it passed through el salvador in early november. it has caused more than 200 deaths and disappearances, destroyed essential infrastructure and equipment, particularly in the areas of health, education, water and sanitation, and exacerbated poverty in the country. it was urgent to be here to discuss the provision of extraordinary funds and the reorientation of available funds from the european union to the emergency situation and to start the reconstruction and risk reduction plan and to support the population of el salvador. it was urgent that this european parliament condemn the military coup in honduras and demand the return of power to president zelaya, who was legally elected by the honduran people. it was urgent to demand respect for the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara. unfortunately, none of this has been possible because of the opposition of the epp. so, as my colleagues have already said, we will not cooperate in this false urgency, which is a disgrace to the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. in china, all those who seek to exercise basic labour, social, civil and political rights continue to be repressed. the repression is most cruel and indiscriminate when it is directed against ethnic minorities such as the uighurs and tibetans, but the han are not spared either, as is the case with the sakharov prize hu jia and the lawyers and activists who are now being persecuted following president obama's visit to beijing. the administrative detention of hundreds of thousands of people, systematic torture in prisons, religious and political repression, executions - all these are methods incompatible with the obligations of the people's republic of china as a member of the united nations. and these are ineffective methods, which will not be able to silence or restrain those who fight for freedom and human rights. in china, as in the rest of the world, because the chinese are not martians, they are no different from the rest of humanity.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. for the reasons we also explained during our speech, we will not be taking part in this debate... in this vote. we have participated in the debate, but we are not going to participate in this vote, which is a false urgency, as we have already explained.
mr president, i bring to the house today the question of the taxation of portuguese farmers in the form of vat. under community law there are three possible schemes: the general scheme, with the organized accounting; the option of the small and medium-sized enterprises scheme; or the flat-rate scheme, where there is no refund but there is a right to compensation. unfortunately, since portugal's accession to the community, this compensation right has been 0%. at the moment there is an infringement procedure against the portuguese state. this taxation covers 18 000 farmers, accounting for approximately 5.3% of their sales. i want to make one point very clear here so that it is possible for national legislation to be in line with the acquis communautaire.
over the years and in the successive changes to the common agricultural policy we have warned of its consequences and presented alternatives. unfortunately, they did not want to listen to us and today we are experiencing a disaster situation, as is the case in portuguese agriculture. we have warned of the consequences of liberalizing international trade in agri-food products. we have said that agriculture cannot be treated as an industrial commodity and should be excluded from the negotiations of the world trade organization in order to avoid its being subjected to stock market and financial speculation. we have always said that food sovereignty and food security should be given priority and that those who work the land should be valued, and that is why we were against the withdrawal of production aid and the end of milk quotas. we have always said that there are specific features of the agriculture of the southern countries of the european union which must be respected in order to safeguard their production of high-quality foodstuffs such as wine, olive oil, fruit and vegetables, rice, but also meat and milk production under conditions which are very different from those in other areas. we therefore insist on the revision of these policies to take account of the high prices of the factors of production of gas oil, electricity, fertiliser, feed, credit and insurance, and we are intervening in defence of farmers with policies which support those who produce and create jobs in rural areas. it is time to give priority to family farming and the increasingly deserted countryside, to regional agricultural production and to native species. farmers deserve it, because they produce what is essential for our food.
i would like to congratulate you once again, madam commissioner, on your presence in this chamber - which has been a constant throughout your entire term of office - even though the commission is in a transitional phase. but the problems of agriculture are not subject to the vagaries of the political calendar, and farmers expect answers from us to their problems, their difficulties and their aspirations. as we all know, the economic crisis has also hit agriculture, not just the milk sector - as the media might make us believe - but other sectors as well. milk, fruit and vegetables, cereals and olive oil have been hit hard in recent months, as has meat production, with the tremendous rise in the cost of production factors that has now occurred. the situation for fruit and vegetables is likely to worsen further as a result of the extension of the market opening to moroccan products under the new agreement which is about to be approved. it is true, as the commissioner has said, that in recent weeks the markets have shown positive signs, but this should not give us too much enthusiasm, because if the recovery comes, as we all hope, it will surely bring with it an increase in the cost of oil and with it the inevitable increase in the cost of production in agriculture. that is why, commissioner, the european parliament, despite the political timetables, cannot but demand answers from the commission to these questions. farmers are waiting for political signals from parliament and the commission and so it makes perfect sense that we have brought this agenda here today, hoping that the commission can give some signals, indicate the information it has and the measures it proposes in the short term to mitigate these problems.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has also dragged us into an agricultural and social crisis, and i welcome this debate in this parliament, even though it is a bit late. producers (cereals, pork, olive oil, fruit, vegetables, etc.) are experiencing extremely difficult conditions at this time, resulting from the collapse in demand, obtaining prices for their products which are very low compared with the cost of their production. there are also difficulties in obtaining credit. these issues are affecting your income a lot. price volatility in agriculture is a very complex issue, affecting the planning and predictability needed in agriculture, and decisively affecting profitability and the level of investment. it is therefore essential to ensure that farms are sustainable and that prices are stable, so that producers can maintain their activity by improving the quality of their products, with a positive impact on the whole chain from producer to consumer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. although the doha round, or the doha development agenda, was not on the official agenda of this ministerial conference, the fact is that a large majority of the official delegations from the member countries of the world trade organization took the opportunity to comment on the issue and to declare their desire to conclude the doha round by the end of 2010. however, it is public knowledge that no recent progress has been made in the negotiations. i have therefore the honour, on behalf of the committee on international trade, of which i am chairman, to put the following questions to the commission: firstly, can the commission give us an assessment of the situation with regard to the main areas of negotiation on the doha round, in particular in the area of agriculture, the so-called nama, i.e. market access for non-agricultural products and services? what are the main developments recorded by the commission at the 7th ministerial conference of the world trade organization? what do you think are the issues that remain to be discussed? and what are the most difficult issues in the negotiations? secondly, what impact could the wto ministerial conference have on the ongoing doha round negotiations? how does the commission intend to ensure that the negotiations actually focus on development? will the commission also present an assessment of the likelihood of the doha development round being successfully concluded by the end of next year? third and last question: how does the commission intend to include the members of the european parliament delegation in the ongoing doha round negotiations and in the world trade organisation structure? the question is put on behalf of the committee on international trade, and i would like to conclude by emphasizing that this parliamentary committee attaches great importance - in the exercise of the new responsibilities and powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon - to establishing more fruitful and deeper cooperation with the commission in the field of international trade. but this presupposes, of course, that the commission is fully prepared to cooperate with the european parliament, starting with the answers to the questions we put to it.
it is time to change the priorities in international trade and to reject free trade for the negative contribution it has made to the financial, economic, food and social crisis that we are living with the increase in unemployment and poverty, serving only the interests of the richest countries and economic and financial groups. a fundamental change in the negotiations is needed to give priority to development and social progress, to creating jobs with rights, to combating hunger and poverty, which means ending tax havens, investing in food sovereignty and food security, supporting quality public services and respecting the right of governments to preserve their economy and public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, water, culture, communications and energy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we will vote in support of the workers made redundant in sweden, austria and the netherlands. but each request for the mobilisation of this fund increases my perplexity as to its fairness and effectiveness. first, efficiency: in 2009, the fund supported 16,000 workers, a drop in the bucket in a sea of redundancies, and spent 53 million of the possible 500 million. then justice: why is a swedish car worker supported by 6500 euros and an austrian by 14300? how do i explain this to a portuguese textile worker whose support was 524 euros, when her catalan counterpart could receive 2000? worse still, why were the fixedterm workers excluded from any support in the dutch application when they are the most vulnerable? this fund cannot continue to serve to widen the gaps in unemployment or to accentuate the inequalities between rich and peripheral countries.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my fellow rapporteur on her work on this report and on her speech a short while ago. this new microfinance facility will allow micro-credit to be granted to small businesses and to people who have lost their jobs and want to set up their own business and their own workplace. this is very important at a time when the economic crisis is expected to result in the loss of 3.5 million jobs in the european union alone. as a consequence of the economic slowdown, banks have stopped lending for jobs and businesses and access to credit is more difficult at a time when it should be more affordable. this new form of microfinance will counteract the current trend towards restricting access to credit by making it easier to obtain the funds needed to launch new businesses and create new jobs. the european commission's proposal is to reallocate eur 100 million from the progress programme budget to this financing instrument. we cannot agree to this proposal. the financial and economic crisis is also a social crisis. so reallocating resources from progress to the most vulnerable groups is not the most appropriate solution. the creation of a separate budget line to finance this instrument and an increase in the allocation to eur 150 million are therefore supported. we also agree with the need to clarify in the legislation itself that the target group is vulnerable groups who have difficulty entering or re-entering the labour market and who face the threat of social exclusion. therefore, the reference to specific groups should be deleted. finally, we stress that it is essential that those receiving financial support also have appropriate training.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a response to the economic crisis, with the european citizens at its core. so this is a budget that will serve to combat unemployment and to revive the economy. we therefore give priority to the plan to revive the european economy, which has a budget of eur 2.4 billion for next year. we also support the economic recovery by increasing the payment appropriations for the main budget lines. i would also like to stress the proposal to revise the erasmus programme in the fight against unemployment and youth unemployment. we welcome the granting of additional support to the milk sector of eur 300 million, but i insist that a budget line should be created to establish a permanent fund for this sector. we also consider it of great importance that the current multiannual financial framework 2007-2013 be revised and extended for the financial years 2015-2016 as we propose. i would remind you that the fight against climate change, together with energy security, are priorities of the european union which are not sufficiently reflected in this budget. the budget for parliament and the other institutions, which is now being proposed for second reading, is the same as that which we had already adopted at first reading. the pp reaffirms the priority of rigor and transparency and therefore advocates a long-term real estate policy, the implementation of a zero-based budget at the beginning of each legislature and the cost/benefit analysis of policies such as, for example, the parliament's communication. as for the new requirements, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we are in favour of legislative excellence and the need for the means necessary to achieve this objective.
i do not think we can talk about trees in this budget without mentioning the forest. and the question i ask you, quite frankly, is this: without the crisis, would this budget be very different from what it is? we all know it's not. and this is the decisive question. that is why the report we are voting on thursday itself acknowledges that the council is not prepared to increase funding to deal with the crisis, that it is reducing the appropriations for the structural and cohesion funds at a time when the crisis is present and severe, and that it does not sufficiently reflect, i repeat, the priority of climate change. the report itself makes further criticisms, such as those made by jutta haug: that there is a huge disparity between the level of authorized expenditure and payments, that it is below the limits set and, fundamentally, that we do not even know whether what is being spent is being spent well. in the face of such a severe examination, how can this house vote on such a budget? there is only one explanation: parliament is the weak link in the budgetary authority. even children know that the government is in charge and the state is in charge. ladies and gentlemen, today we are also talking about the future, because within a year europeans will be faced with the biggest budgetary adjustment programme in the history of each of our countries. it is very simple for the ordinary citizen: after the crisis, again the crisis, now in the name of the cleanup of public accounts. it is irresponsible to pursue this policy while maintaining a zero deficit in the european budget. the difficulties cannot continue to be borne by the same people as always, by the unemployed, by the precarious and the precarious, or by the reduction of pensions. the union will only be part of the problem when it starts sending invoices to the right addresses. without closing offshore, without taxing financial transactions, without issuing bonds, we will not be able to attack the crisis with what is the only answer that can end it: social justice. so they're counting on the left for a robust, radical, redistributive overhaul of the financial perspective to 2016, not counting on the left to make up a mediocre budget that doesn't respond to the social urgency or the boldness we need to combat climate change.
mr president, i regret that in the midst of the economic and social crisis, with its dramatic effects on employment and the living conditions of the population, this draft community budget for 2010 falls far short of what was needed and, for example, does not even take into account either the financial perspective which pointed to 1.1% of community gross national income or the proposal itself presented and adopted at first reading in this budget, which was 1.08% of community gross national income. this proposal, which is now before the house, continues a budget which privileges and finances the neoliberal and militarist orientations of the european union. it is the first budget of the lisbon treaty to be devoted to the detriment of the so-called economic and social cohesion, which, moreover, has its share here reduced, since in total payments the cut in cohesion expenditure is some 2.5 billion compared with what was approved at first reading. for all these reasons, we cannot agree to this budget proposal which is more than eur 11 billion below the amount provided for in the multiannual financial framework for 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation of this microfinance instrument for employment, as it aims to give the unemployed opportunities and encourage entrepreneurship. this instrument, which is aimed at people who want to start or develop a micro-enterprise (less than 10 employees and a turnover of less than eur 2 million), will open up new horizons for many unemployed people. in the current economic environment, this is an important programme which would have been beneficial if it had been launched earlier, as the difficulties in accessing credit have long been felt. as this instrument is intended for public and private entities established at national, regional and local level in the eu member states that provide microcredit to individuals and micro-enterprises, it should be closely monitored by the competent bodies to ensure that credit is effectively getting to where it is needed most and that situations similar to those experienced during the last financial crisis are not repeated.
in writing. − as europe is going through a serious economic and financial crisis, which has led to serious social problems, with unemployment rising in all member states, it is important that the eu establishes effective mechanisms to combat the crisis and also to support those most affected, such as unemployed people and companies in difficulty. i therefore believe that it is right to focus on a microfinance instrument for employment which focuses on entrepreneurship and the possibility for each individual to create his or her own job. european microfinance will be used to help those who are denied or hindered in accessing bank credit by supporting the growth of micro-enterprises with mentoring, coaching and interest rate subsidies granted by the esf. i also think it is important to stress that this instrument should serve the sole purpose of supporting entrepreneurship as a way of creating new jobs, making sound business ideas viable, and should not be used for social support or consumption.
in writing. − in the current context of economic crisis and rising unemployment, it is important to promote the growth of self-employment and the formation and development of micro-enterprises. microcredit will help to achieve this. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal and parliament's work on this matter. this encourages entrepreneurship and increases employment and social inclusion. this microfinance facility is complementary to other programmes to support employment and inclusion. i therefore consider it important that the financing of this new instrument should not be at the expense of existing programmes or call them into question. i had already voted in favour of this instrument in the committee on budgets in the context of the 2010 budgetary procedure, which created two new budget lines, one for operational expenditure of eur 37.5 million and the other for administrative expenditure of eur 0.25 million. i hope that this programme will be put into operation quickly and that the approval process for applications will be expeditious and unbureaucratic.
in writing. - we regret that once again the majority of this parliament has 'taken the unspoken word for the unspoken' and approved a proposal to withdraw money from the progress programme, which was already manifestly low in view of its areas of intervention in the social field. regardless of the considerations regarding the objectives of the new european microfinance instrument, it is not acceptable that it be financed at the expense of the reduction of funds from existing programmes, in this case a community programme in the field of employment, social inclusion and equal rights, the progress programme. the text adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs clearly rejected the financing of this instrument from progress and proposed the creation of a new budget line with own resources, that is, with 'new' money. the amendments tabled by our group, which have now been rejected, were also in this direction. in view of the worsening social conditions in the various member states, it is unacceptable that funding from the employment and social inclusion area is being reduced to channel it to other priorities that have been defined in the meantime, even in the area of microfinance.
in writing. − in a time of crisis, when credit is scarce and access to it is difficult, this type of instrument is essential to help provide micro-credit to small businesses and people who, having lost their jobs, wish to start a new activity on their own. without such a support mechanism, it is difficult to achieve these objectives. moreover, in the current crisis, the bank is not sensitive to the credit needs of start-up companies, which in most cases makes their emergence unfeasible. with the prospect of the loss of some several million more jobs in the eu, it is important that there are incentives that these unemployed can access in an attempt to rebuild their lives, avoiding social crises and reducing state expenditure, with social support measures.
mr president, i am afraid the portuguese interpretation is not working. i have not heard one single word from the previous speaker. something must be done; otherwise, i cannot follow the debate.
on behalf of the epp group. the strengthening of the european parliament's powers was one of the main points made by various political leaders in their speeches on the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the president of the european commission, mr barroso, for example, said the following in strasbourg on 25 november, in preparation for the european council: 'now the lisbon treaty gives us a new opportunity to move forward. we all know that freedom, security and justice will see some of the most significant changes in the treaty and in particular will increase the democratic method of these policies by the full involvement of your parliament'. i stress 'the full involvement of your parliament'. the president of the council, mr van rompuy, also said, in his first official speech, that the treaty is a powerful tool for meeting the challenges of our time. if that is the case, then it would make no sense to emphasize in the official speech the strengthening of our powers and our competences, but then to interpret the treaty of lisbon in a restrictive way, so as to deprive the european parliament of prerogatives which it previously had and which it would make no sense to lose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is also a practical consequence which stems from the old maxim of who can do the most, can do the least and it has to do with this: what sense does it make for someone who has competence in criminal matters and the prevention and combating of terrorist attacks, and who is involved in a codecision procedure, to be excluded injunctionally if other measures are involved which, by affecting citizens' rights, may even be important in this context? and so, mr president, in conclusion, it is essential that the normative interpretation of the treaty of lisbon corresponds in reality to the stated strengthening of the powers and competences of the european parliament. and at least in some cases, as raised in the question, providing for the possibility of a dual legal basis where citizens' rights are at stake and counter-terrorism policies are threatened. and in other cases, such as zimbabwe and somalia, the possibility of optional consultation, as enshrined in the stuttgart declaration on european union, was also raised. that is the position i wanted to express here, mr president.
i would like to return to the subject which has been raised by several colleagues, and particularly in the recent speeches by mr papanikolaou and mr luhan. let us break it down first into parts: the proposals for zimbabwe and somalia. i recognize that we are faced with the application of sanctions imposed by the united nations as such, clearly in the context of the union's external action. in principle, article 215 seems to be the most appropriate. however, according to this article, any acts adopted under it must contain the necessary provisions on legal guarantees, which is not covered by any of the proposals. these initiatives are the sole initiative of the commission and not a joint initiative of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. it is therefore clear that these proposals do not fulfil the necessary conditions for adoption on the basis of article 215. as regards the third proposal, concerning persons and entities associated with osama bin laden, the al-qaida network or the taliban, as mr luhan has just said, it is not possible to support the idea that we are in the framework of the union's external action. since the prevention and combating of terrorism is one of the main priorities of the european union's internal action, this objective is explicitly contained in article 75 of the lisbon treaty. this should therefore be the most appropriate legal basis on the basis of the ordinary legislative procedure. we are now starting to apply the treaty of lisbon, minister malmström. does the council intend to show its good will to start our international relations on the right foot by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon? or do you intend to do a restrictive analysis? i think we'd all like to get off to a good start.
the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european institutions are always asking for the confidence of their citizens. during the lisbon treaty process, for better or for worse, they asked for the citizens' trust. the financial crisis started, they asked the citizens for confidence. well, trust is a two-way street and it is not possible to be always asking for the citizens' trust and at the same time not to trust the citizens to show them all the processes, all the internal mechanics that run the commission. it is not possible for the rulers to say that the citizens do not trust the politicians and then the politicians themselves do not trust the citizens. this is a problem of democracy and, in addition to a problem of democracy, it is also a problem of waste. society is itself a vast repository of knowledge which we will be wasting if we do not involve citizens in the process of leadership, of governance of the european union. i have no doubt, therefore, that i support the efforts of the rapporteur, that he is doing a good service to democracy and that we must move not only towards transparency but above all towards ensuring that transparency is not just a pretty word, that it has a concrete meaning.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the promoters of this debate because it is very important that the situation of countries which are economically weaker and of countries which are outside the euro zone is discussed. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. and if the situation is difficult in many eastern european economies and in many central european economies, it is also beginning to be difficult in many western european economies that are within the euro area. i am speaking, for example, of my own country, portugal. the strategy has to take account of the various situations which differ between the states. there are many ways. it is very important that monetary and fiscal policy be appropriate, perhaps increasingly determined by political criteria which look at the need for liquidity for firms and small and mediumsized enterprises, which do not create and maintain obstacles which are very difficult for non-euro area states to overcome and which create pressure on national governments to make the necessary medium and long-term reforms. finally, we must move from words to deeds. cohesion has to be effective.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the swedish presidency and in particular prime minister reinfeldt, both on behalf of the epp and on behalf of the portuguese epp delegation. our record of the swedish presidency is one of almost total success, essentially in four key areas. firstly, in the institutional area, the contribution of the swedish presidency to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, to the very successful election of the president of the commission and to all matters associated with ratification was extremely professional and was at the level of what is expected of best practice in the european union. of course, for a country like portugal, which played a decisive role in the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, this contribution of the swedish presidency is invaluable. a second point is the climate agenda, where the commission's work has also been very important. i should like to say that in my view and in the view of many other members of the epp, the european union has been most successful in the area of climate change, it is on the front line of the global fight, and this is due to the efforts of both the swedish presidency and, in particular, the presidency of the commission. we also consider this to be a very positive balance. a third point is financial regulation, which, especially with this last council, has taken a step which we consider decisive and which can have a very big impact on the way out of the crisis. i would therefore like to congratulate you on the fact that an agreement has been reached in this area. finally, i would like to mention an area which is very personal to me, namely the stockholm programme and therefore the area of security, justice and freedom. i, who have followed both the tempere process and, in particular, the subsequent hague process, consider the stockholm programme absolutely essential and would like to congratulate the swedish presidency and prime minister fredrik reinfeldt on it.
in writing. the six months of the swedish presidency under prime minister reinfeldt were a great success and an excellent one. the swedish presidency played a crucial role in bringing the treaty of lisbon into force. this ended almost a decade of debate and institutional deadlock and opened the door to new opportunities for the european union. the fight against climate change has always been at the top of his agenda. the eu is a leader in this area, and has demonstrated its ambition by proposing, among other things, emission reductions of 80%, 95% by 2050. it also agreed to provide 7.2 billion euro in financing for developing countries over the next three years. the swedish presidency has faced the economic crisis and financial turbulence with solid and realistic measures. faced with the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, the eu quickly adopted extraordinary support measures. the work of 'preventing' further crises was also carried out through a new architecture for financial supervision. the swedish presidency has helped to tackle the crisis and made europe stronger, enabling it to continue on its path of peace, success and modernity.
in writing. it is true that it was during the swedish presidency that significant institutional changes took place, notably the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, after the whole process of pressure and blackmail on the irish people to change their vote in the second referendum they had to hold. but even for those who are keen to see european integration becoming increasingly neoliberal, militarist and federalist, it is unacceptable that they have not had a word to say about the seriousness of the social situation in the european union, which is clearly visible in the increase of more than five million unemployed in the space of just one year, now reaching more than 23 million people. however, it is symptomatic that the emphasis is placed on launching the debate on the european union's strategy for 2020, forgetting the evaluation of the so-called lisbon strategy, adopted ten years ago, which promised an oasis in the european union, so as not to have to refer to the causes of the greatest economic and social crisis of recent decades, to which liberalization and labour flexibility contributed, which created precarious and low-paid work and multiplied unemployment.
despite the difficulties resulting from the delay in the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the swedish presidency achieved notable victories. these include the energy efficiency package and the telecommunications package, the creation of a prudential financial supervisory body, the agreement on the 2010 budget, notably as regards the financing of the economic recovery plan, the baltic sea strategy and the alignment for this week's copenhagen climate conference. the spanish presidency, which will start in 2010, will ensure the transition between nice and lisbon and continue the strategy of promoting employment through stimulating and boosting economies, as well as tackling other key challenges such as financial regulation and climate change. because of its geographical and historical proximity, portugal and, in particular, the outermost regions such as madeira, which are looking forward to the performance of the spanish presidency, should seek to make the most of the opportunities that will surely be generated. the pioneering eu-morocco summit, for example, will be a privileged forum for the dynamisation of the euro-african atlantic cooperation area involving madeira, the azores, the canary islands and neighbouring countries, in particular morocco, to which i will devote my full efforts and which i will follow closely.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade. it has already been used in portugal, germany, spain, the netherlands, sweden, ireland and austria, thus demonstrating that this problem affects member states with different geographical situations and different economic models and paths. these developments, which are occurring at a worrying rate, call for a thorough reflection on the european economic and social model, its sustainability and its future. they make it crystal clear that we must promote the creation of new quality jobs, which will only be able to pay off if we know how to support and free from unjustified burdens and red tape those who, despite the adversities, are still able to take the risk of setting up new businesses and joining innovative projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cases in question, which i support, concern sweden, austria and the netherlands and have a broad consensus among the parliamentary committees responsible for both the motion for a resolution and the opinion.
in writing. - while maintaining our critical stance on the european globalisation adjustment fund, because we believe that it would have been more important to have taken measures to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it, we voted in favour of mobilising the fund to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of company restructuring or the liberalisation of international trade. in this case, it is the mobilisation of some eur 16 million for sweden, austria and the netherlands to provide assistance to workers made redundant in the automotive and construction sectors respectively. this is the fifth mobilisation of the fund in 2009, with a total of eur 53 million of the eur 500 million allocated being used. it is symptomatic that, in a period of severe social crisis, only a little over 10% of the funds provided have been used, which in itself shows the need to review the rules governing the fund.
in writing. - the eu is a space of solidarity. the european globalisation adjustment fund is in that spirit. these are essential supports for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. moreover, we know that an increasing number of companies are moving to other countries, taking advantage of the low prices of labour in a number of countries, notably china and india, often at the expense of so-called social, labour and environmental dumping.
in writing. - this amending budget reflects the contradictions of the european union budgets. on the one hand, it has low overall values in relation to the needs of economic and social cohesion policies. but on the other hand, the money is not spent because the countries that needed the money the most had budgetary difficulties to co-finance the money they needed. however, they rejected the proposals we put forward to reduce the co-financing requirements, particularly in a time of crisis. it is the contradictions and irrationalities of community policy which only favour the richer and more developed countries, and which end up exacerbating social inequalities and regional asymmetries. hence our vote against. the report itself justifies our position by pointing out that 'there are different reasons for the apparent slowdown in payments compared to the expected pace, depending on the member state. firstly, the current economic situation has in some cases caused difficulties in the provision of national co-financing. secondly, the fact that rural development implementation in 2009 shows a less dynamic profile than in the relevant year of the previous programming period is explained by the late adoption of certain programmes and, in the case of romania and bulgaria, by a lack of sufficient previous experience in the implementation of rural development programmes. "
in writing. - i believe that the doha round is of fundamental importance for international trade and can go a long way towards reducing poverty in developing countries and a more equitable sharing of the benefits of globalisation. it is therefore important that the doha development agenda takes account of that effect and makes a real contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. it is essential that wto members continue to avoid the adoption of protectionist measures, which could have a very serious impact on the world economy. i am convinced that the failure to adopt protectionist measures has allowed a better, albeit slow, recovery from the economic crisis we are currently experiencing. it is therefore crucial that wto members combat protectionism in their bilateral and multilateral relations in future agreements.
in writing. − i advocate a leading role for the eu in the ongoing wto negotiations to conclude the doha round, bearing in mind new global challenges such as climate change, food security and food sovereignty. i hope that the result will be the creation of new market opportunities and the strengthening of multilateral trade rules to put trade at the service of sustainable development. the wto can do a better job of managing globalization. however, i recognise that in the context of the current economic crisis, the rules and commitments under the wto have largely prevented its members from resorting to trade restrictive measures and have allowed economic recovery measures to be taken. it is important that wto members remain committed to actively combating protectionism. i hope that greater cooperation will be achieved between the wto and other international organisations and bodies such as the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao), the ilo, the united nations environment programme (unep), the united nations development programme (undp) and the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad). that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - this resolution insists on the european parliament's neoliberal positions on the doha round launched in 2001, albeit with some reference to social issues and the millennium development goals. but the central line is the commitment to complete liberalisation of the world market, which has refused to recognise that it is time to change priorities in international trade and to reject free trade for the negative contribution it has made to the financial, economic, food and social crisis we are experiencing, with increasing unemployment and poverty, serving only the interests of the richest countries and economic and financial groups. by rejecting our amendments, they have said no to a fundamental change in the negotiations to give priority to development and social progress, to the creation of jobs with rights, to the fight against hunger and poverty. it is regrettable that they have not made it a priority to end tax havens, to invest in food sovereignty and security, to support quality public services and to respect the right of governments to preserve their economy and public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, water, culture, communication and energy.
in writing. the various imbalances in the international trading system perversely contribute to accentuating the asymmetries between the various continents. in this sense, everything that contributes to the correction of the present imbalances is beneficial for all and certainly contributes to a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules and to finding a fair trade that serves all. that is the spirit of the doha development agenda.
in writing. − public access to documents is an essential element in ensuring democratic control of the institutions and their effective functioning, and in strengthening citizens' trust. in the context of the stockholm programme, the council recalled the importance of transparency and invited the commission to examine how best to ensure transparency in the decision-making process, access to documents and good administration in the face of the new opportunities opened up by the lisbon treaty. i have no doubt that the legal basis of the regulation on access to documents needs to be amended and the legal context in which it is to operate must also be changed, particularly as regards the relationship between the union's institutions and citizens. it is also necessary to make substantive improvements, for example in what i consider to be a fundamental area: the possibility for the ep to exercise its right of democratic control through access to sensitive documents. transparency, both vis-à-vis the public and in interinstitutional terms, is a fundamental principle of the eu. the action and decisions taken by all eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies must be guided by the principle of openness as fully as possible.
in writing. - the question at issue concerns the interpretation of the treaty of lisbon, in particular the compatibility of articles 75 and 215 thereof with regard to parliament's competence in the procedure for adopting restrictive measures against natural and legal persons. while article 215 seems to exclude parliament from the decision-making process, article 75 provides for the ordinary legislative procedure and the consequent participation of this house in the definition and adoption of measures aimed at preventing terrorism and related activities. the restrictive measures provided for in article 215 are often aimed specifically at combating terrorism, and it is therefore important to determine whether there is a derogation from article 75 and whether it is acceptable, from a systematic point of view, for the european parliament to be completely sidelined in the process of adopting the measures. i think it is clear that the legislator intended to entrust the adoption of those measures exclusively to the council and that such a trust may be due to criteria of speed and unity in decision-making. however, whenever urgency does not prevent it, i believe that there is an advantage in hearing parliament when adopting such measures.
in writing. - again, under the pretext of combating terrorism, restrictive measures and sanctions are envisaged against governments of third countries, natural or legal persons, non-state groups or authorities, which is unacceptable, since, despite some attempts at distinction, the report itself acknowledges that it is difficult to distinguish in practice the issue of threats. we know that another framework of respect for international law is needed. we do not accept the policy of 'double standards' towards governments of third countries, natural or legal persons, groups or non-state authorities, determined by the interests of the united states or the major european powers, of which there is no lack of examples. to name just a few, there are the cases of the illegal occupation of western sahara, of aminatu haidar and other sarawi prisoners held by morocco, of the turkish intervention against the kurds and against cyprus. we therefore voted against this report, although we agree with some of the paragraphs, particularly with regard to requests for clarification from the european commission.
in writing. the rational nature of the questions raised goes beyond the mere doctrinal assessment and the coherence between the declared will and the interpreted will. there is also a practical consequence which follows from the old maxim "he who can do the most, can do the least" and it has to do with the following: what sense does it make for someone who has competence in criminal matters and the prevention and combating of terrorist attacks, and who is involved in a codecision procedure, to be excluded in the first instance if other measures are involved which, by affecting citizens' rights, may even be important in this context? it is essential that the normative interpretation of the treaty of lisbon corresponds in reality to the stated strengthening of the european parliament's powers and competences. and at least in some cases, as raised in the question, providing for the possibility of a dual legal basis where citizens' rights are at stake and counter-terrorism policies are threatened. and in other cases, such as zimbabwe and somalia, the possibility of optional consultation, as enshrined in the stuttgart declaration on european union, was also raised.
the council says that the situation in afghanistan and pakistan has a direct impact on europe. this is the main message we must convey to the european citizens with honesty and courage. in this regard, i welcome the new european union action plan for afghanistan and pakistan which provides for investing in a broad capacity building programme at all levels of the afghan administration. only the effective implementation of this action plan as an aggregator of european efforts in afghanistan can contribute to the state building needed to end the war and underdevelopment. europe cannot abandon the afghans and it is not there because the americans have decided to do so. the international military and civilian presence will continue to be needed there for many years to come. i would like to conclude by expressing my strongest condemnation of the forced return, which has been unworthily imposed by the french government on afghans fleeing the war in their country.
mr president, as we know, 15 directives on the recognition of professional qualifications have been consolidated into a single legislative act, which has given rise to a number of practical problems in the implementation of the directives in the various member states. the difficulties are well known and the commission should draw up a list of critical points and analyse the problem areas which arise in the application of this important internal market provision. protectionism at various levels is an obstacle not only to the free movement of persons but also to the internal market. we must try to identify the nebulous points so that the effectiveness of the directive is not undermined by mistrust. the union is not asked to do what the member states should do, but there is a facilitation effort to be made to help overthrow professional corporatism. improving the application of this directive should be achieved by spreading the recognition of qualifications in the solvit and eures networks, by encouraging common platforms, by implementing effective contact points and, not least, by providing an articulation of this directive with the services directive.
mr president, we are very concerned about all the developments in the budget reform, particularly in the structural and cohesion policy. in a situation of crisis and of great social inequalities and regional asymmetries, structural and cohesion policy is essential for effective economic and social cohesion, which implies keeping precise objectives in this area and not trying to nationalise the costs of community policies, whether in agriculture or fisheries, to the detriment of the least developed countries and regions and the outermost regions. but there are several indications that the concept of cohesion is being further subverted, whether by attempting to include and finance all kinds of actions and actors that have nothing to do with the objectives of cohesion, namely the european union strategy for 2020 and policies on climate change, or by changing eligibility and management criteria. so it makes perfect sense to have this debate on cohesion policy after 2013. we expect clear answers in defence of a genuine policy of economic and social cohesion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need to have a debate on the community budget and how it can contribute to its sustainability and transparency in the future. the financial framework after 2013 should be built on the foundations of solidarity and territorial cohesion, which are crucial values for regions like madeira, which are facing permanent difficulties and therefore in need of permanent support. i would like to share with you some ideas which i think should always be present when thinking about and building cohesion policy. the commission has on several occasions referred to some aspects which i consider essential, such as the need for greater flexibility, simplicity, efficiency and a greater focus on results in the definition and implementation of this policy. but there are some issues which give me some concern, particularly in view of the needs of the outermost regions. i would like to make three brief comments on this subject: first, the current approach in terms of regions must prevail over alternative approaches, such as value-added sectors. such a reorientation could jeopardise objective 2, which currently benefits about two thirds of european regions, and could be counterproductive in regions with their own distinctive economic profile and competitive advantages; secondly, it seems to me that the maintenance of the proximity criterion in cohesion policy is vital. the allocation and management of the structural funds should continue to be prioritised from a regional rather than a national or even centralised european perspective; thirdly, and last but not least, i would like to recall and emphasize article 349 of the treaty of lisbon, which provides for special treatment for the outermost regions as regards access to the structural funds, precisely because of their economic and social situation, aggravated by the unique and perennial conditions and characteristics which are manifested in these constant difficulties and which therefore require the permanent aid claimed.
cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for ensuring that all european citizens have the same chances of success wherever they live, it makes a decisive contribution to creating a european feeling and is one of the most successful and effective european policies for development. i cannot hide my concern, commissioner, about the european commission's notorious 'non-paper' and its proposals. we do not accept the renationalisation of cohesion policy, which would in fact cease if its effectiveness depended on the wealth of each member state. i sincerely hope that the commission will abandon this course for good. as you know, mr commissioner, the new article 349 of the treaty establishes the need for european policies to be adapted to the specific features of the outermost regions, in particular to mitigate their handicaps but also to exploit their potential. what ideas can you give us about the future strategy for the ors that the commission will be releasing in the course of 2010?
just to say this: diplomatic work is very important, but aminatou haidar is on her 33rd day of hunger strike in a hospital. the worst thing we could do would be to tell a woman who is fighting for basic human rights that now, here in this european parliament, she would be forgotten.
in writing. the draft resolution under debate concerns european funding for the period 2010-13 for the decommissioning of the kozloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to this end, thus honouring a commitment made to bulgaria during its accession process. it also covers additional funding from the flexibility instrument for the second phase of the european economic recovery plan (eerp) in the field of energy, which has not been adequately funded. while i do not deny that nuclear energy can be part of a more balanced european energy mix and that its use is likely to reduce external dependence in this field, i believe that the european union cannot fail to share in the effort to close down the obsolete nuclear complex and thus ensure that projects to revive the economy deserve adequate funding. both the environmental safety motivated by the decommissioning of the kozloduy power station and increased investment in energy projects are thus good reasons for the mobilisation of the instrument.
in writing. − at the conciliation meeting of 18 november 2009, the flexibility instrument was mobilised to finance the decommissioning of the kozloduy nuclear power plant with an amount of eur 75 million in 2010. i regret that the commission only presented these funding needs in its letter of amendment no 2/2010 after parliament's first reading, i.e. after parliament had approved its priorities. this has created additional pressure on heading 1a, considerably affecting the dynamics of the 2010 budget negotiations and undermining parliament's political priorities. however, the commitments made are to be fulfilled, as is the case with the protocol on the conditions of bulgaria's accession to the european union, which contains the european union's commitment to finance the decommissioning of the kozloduy plant. the additional funding needs, totalling eur 225 million in 2011-13, should be addressed in the context of a mid-term review of the mff. it is noted that the continuation of the funding of kozloduy in 2011-2013 should not prejudice the funding of existing multiannual programmes and actions. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the €5 billion european economic recovery plan (eerp), agreed by the european parliament in march 2009, is divided into trans-european energy projects and broadband internet development projects in rural areas. this is an important instrument for dealing with the economic crisis, reviving the economy and, consequently, creating jobs. at the conciliation meeting on 18 november, the european parliament, the council and the commission reached agreement on the financing of the second year (2010) of the european economic recovery plan (eerp), which amounts to eur 2.4 billion. this funding for projects in the field of energy and broadband internet requires the revision of the multiannual financial framework for 2007-13. the financing of the pree should not have been postponed for later years and i am therefore pleased with the agreement reached. i would also point out that the current multiannual financial framework does not correspond to the financial needs of the european union. the commission should therefore submit a proposal for its mid-term evaluation as a matter of urgency. i also support the need to extend the 2017-2013 mff for the 2015-2016 financial years. that is why i voted in favour.
, in writing. - even if there is some positive use of the money mobilised here, it is still far from meeting the needs of rural areas. agriculture in the countries of the european union has many other shortcomings and farmers who work the land need an agricultural policy that encourages production, that guarantees them an income that allows them to live with dignity and prevents the continuing desertification of the rural world. so it is not enough to say that solidarity is being promoted in the field of energy sources and the promotion of broadband in rural areas to be considered as contributing to the revival of the european economy. as we have said, a thorough review of community policies and a substantial increase in budgetary resources were needed. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - as i have said before, i consider it essential that the particular conditions of the crisis we are currently experiencing be taken into account when we discuss the allocation of funds to the different sectors of the european economy. in particular, i consider it essential that funds be allocated to the implementation of the european economic recovery plan, especially as regards the possibility of adopting measures to stimulate economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and the protection of jobs. i would like to reiterate that the allocation of the funds needed to enable small and mediumsized enterprises, some of the main victims of the crisis, to benefit from support enabling them to survive this crisis is fundamental, as is the crucial importance of the structural and cohesion funds for national economic growth. however, i regret that only eur 300 million has been allocated, which i consider insufficient, for the creation of a fund for the dairy sector. the serious crisis currently affecting the sector would justify a greater allocation of funds to help producers overcome the difficulties they are currently facing.
in writing. - this is a budget that will help to combat unemployment and to revive the economy. the european parliament gives priority to the european economic recovery plan, which has a budget of eur 2.4 billion for next year. i welcome the granting of additional support to the milk sector, amounting to eur 300 million, but i would like to see a budget line created to establish a permanent fund for this sector. i also consider it very important that, as we propose in this budget, the current mff 2007-2013 be revised and extended for the financial years 2015-2016. i would remind you that the fight against climate change is an eu priority which is not sufficiently reflected in this budget. i would also like to remind you that energy security is crucial for the union and i therefore welcome the signing of the nabucco project. the budgets of parliament and the other institutions proposed for the second reading are the same as those which we had already adopted at first reading. in heading 5 we have a margin of eur 72 million, which will be used as a priority to finance additional expenditure directly attributable to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we voted against the report which 'welcomes the overall agreement on the 2010 budget', because this is a community budget which already reflects the priorities, laid down in the lisbon treaty, of an increasingly neoliberal and militarist european union, less concerned with economic and social cohesion. it is unacceptable that, in the midst of the economic and social crisis, with its dramatic effects on employment and the living conditions of the population, the proposed community budget should be 11 billion euros short of the figure for payments in the financial perspective. we are pleased, however, that some of our proposals have been accepted, such as: - the creation of a budget line for actions in the textile and footwear sector with a view to establishing a community programme for the sector; - the creation of another line to encourage the transformation of precarious work into work with rights. these proposals are intended, on the one hand, to highlight the serious crisis in the textile sector, to which the exponential increase in imports from third countries has contributed, and, on the other hand, to make a contribution to the fight against the growing precariousness of work, unemployment and poverty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. there are also various measures to assess the situation of key sectors of the economy, such as the textile and footwear sector and the fisheries sector, in order to promote the renewal of the fishing fleet, which is very important for my country. pilot projects to combat desertification and to preserve jobs are also of great importance in this period of economic crisis. it should also be noted that this was the last eu budget in the light of the treaty of nice. the treaty of lisbon extends the powers of the ep to the whole budget.
in writing. - believes that european citizens aspire to a secure europe, welcomes the increase in appropriations for sub-heading 3a on freedom, security and justice compared to the 2009 budget; it stressed the importance of making sufficient funds available from the eu budget to manage legal immigration and the integration of third-country nationals, while at the same time fighting illegal immigration. it recalls that these policies must always be based on respect for the eu charter of fundamental rights. it also considers it important to increase funds for border protection, including the european return fund and the european refugee fund, in order to promote a policy of genuine solidarity between member states. conscious that all eu countries face increasing challenges in relation to the policies covered by this heading, it urges the member states to take advantage of the increased appropriations for freedom, security and justice in the 2009 budget to jointly address these and any new challenges that may arise by promoting a common immigration policy, which is inclusive where possible but which has at its core the absolute respect for human rights.
in writing. the vote on the budget of the european union is an annual institutional framework in which commitment to community programmes is confirmed and the role of the european parliament underlined. the completion of the second financing phase of the european economic recovery plan for 2009 and 2010 is welcome, as economic recovery and employment are major concerns of the epp in the current crisis context. the launch of the new microfinance instrument programme underlines the priority of the lisbon strategy objectives and the importance of the role of smes in job creation. i cannot but express my concern about the reduction in the budgetary appropriations for the structural and cohesion funds, which are essential for economic dynamism and territorial cohesion, especially in the outermost regions such as madeira. it seems to me essential to continue the flexibility of cohesion policy with a view to increasing the current low levels of implementation of programmes financed by community funds. on the other hand, projects with a strategic vision, added value and long-term competitiveness should continue to be promoted. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is the culmination of a technical and negotiating process which has been painstaking and difficult.
in writing. − the openness of the european institutions and the clarity of their procedures ensure that civil society and public opinion in the member states are not only informed, but are an integral and informed part of their decision-making process. despite the relative distance between the populations, enhanced by the troubled and not always clear and uncritical process that led to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european institutions must persist and make a real effort to make as many documents as possible available in a timely manner, thus helping to reduce that gap. i cannot, however, fail to regret that the parliamentary left has taken advantage of the necessary improvement in the legal framework for access to documents following the entry into force of the treaty to disregard in a populist way the real need for confidentiality in certain aspects of european action, seeking to reduce itself to the category of the sole champion of transparency. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i regret that this was not possible.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon requires improvements to be made to the legal framework for access to documents. such improvements must safeguard the rights of all citizens of the union. since the union is an area of freedom, security and justice, as enshrined in the 'preamble to the charter of fundamental rights', all efforts to increase transparency in access to documents of the eu institutions are welcome. however, it is also very important to assess to what extent full freedom of access to all documents cannot be detrimental to the proper functioning of the institutions. it is therefore very important to find a balance in this matter.
in writing. - belarus has been given and deserved the unflattering epithet of the last soviet republic in europe. despite the progress that has been made in some aspects of political, social and economic life in that country, it is clear that no reforms there justify, for the time being, the refutation of that regrettable attribute. in belarus, elections are not free, there is no freedom of expression, association or demonstration, and repressive activities by the authorities are on the increase. as it did with cuba, the european union is in danger of being inclined to pursue a conciliatory line towards this dictatorship. i think it would be a mistake to do so and not make it clear that the values of democracy and freedom are not only non-negotiable but are also irrelevant to any agreements to be concluded with belarus. the european union must therefore maintain and strengthen its contacts with the democratic opposition in belarus, in fidelity to those who have been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament for their fight for the democratization of that country.
in writing. - the eu cannot be a space concerned only with the problems of the countries that are part of it. it must also be the driving force behind the democratization of the countries which emerged after the break-up of the former soviet union. all measures aimed at improving the conditions in these countries are very important. this is the spirit of this motion for a resolution which calls for measures to support belarus, which must be accompanied by clear signs of democratic reforms by belarus, as well as human rights and the rule of law. the participation of belarus in the eastern partnership is an important step in this direction, but there is still much to be done to improve the freedoms and guarantees in belarus.
in writing. - since the fall of the kleptocratic regime of mobutu sese seko, the democratic republic of the congo (formerly the belgian congo and zaire) has been plunged into the most brutal unrest and violence, which has already resulted in millions of deaths. the eastern part of the country has been particularly hard hit by this scourge, which knows no borders and is more ethnic than national in character. the most impressive atrocities are happening at a rate that is impossible to keep up with, without the international community, in particular the united nations forces, having demonstrated the ability to deal with them, despite all the civil and military efforts that have been made in the meantime. the lack of governance in certain african countries and the loss of control of parts of their territories by central governments are unfortunately phenomena that have yet to be eradicated and that often coincide with the illegal exploitation and plundering of raw materials by both insurgent forces and the regular forces and their leaders. if these phenomena have their origin in european decolonization and the way in which borders have been defined, they cannot absolve african governments and decision-makers of their responsibilities and call on the civil societies of those countries to take decisive control of their destinies.
in writing. the eu cannot be indifferent to the various armed conflicts that exist somewhat all over the world. the violence in the democratic republic of congo is a conflict that has dragged on for several years and has already caused millions of deaths, displacement and displaced persons. it is therefore very important to call on all parties to the conflict to cease hostilities so that the people of these regions can return to live in peace. it is very important that we continue to support the un missions on the ground in order to alleviate the suffering of the entire population, especially the elderly, women and children.
mr president, this is a point of order, given that we had a vote this morning on the justification of the negotiations that existed between the european union and morocco. since a document from the european commission has just come out, on the same date as today, which says that negotiations between the european union and morocco are progressing in the agri-food and fisheries sectors, i wonder whether it was to these negotiations that the chairman of the socialist group in the european parliament was referring this morning when he used the argument of negotiations to remove from the agenda the subject of aminatou haidar, the sarawi fighter who has been on hunger strike for 32 days and who is at this moment in danger of her life. it is a question that needed to be properly clarified, because what happened this morning is unacceptable.
europe must intervene in this matter with all the tools at its disposal, particularly in the framework of the cotonou agreement. we must demand that this draconian project be stopped immediately, or else there will be consequences for economic and political cooperation with uganda. when we learn about the content of this future law and when we hear reports of the sad fate of homosexuals in uganda, sudan, iran and nigeria, to name just a few examples, we see how homophobia is still sadly entrenched in many cultures and the flagrant violation of the human rights obligations of these countries. the role of the american evangelical christian far right in mobilizing and funding various initiatives of this nature in africa is shocking. europe and the european institutions must do everything on the ground in the countries concerned to counteract and combat the harmful and obscurantist influence of these agents of intolerance who are instigating a new era of hate crime in africa.
