mr president, nowadays we are faced with a paradox. although a majority of european consumers have repeatedly stated that they are against gmos, surveys show that they do buy gm foods when they are available in supermarkets. many consumers are just not aware that gm food is sold in europe or simply fall into the trap of illegible labels and end up not knowing what they buy. a possible solution would be to allow the absence of gmo in foods to be mentioned on the label. but currently there are no common provisions on gm-free labelling, leaving the member states the freedom of choice. this leads to confusion of consumers and distortion of the internal market since, while some countries have already introduced non-gm labelling provisions, others refuse to allow this kind of information to be given. people want to make food choices based on their own values and not according to safety assessment studies. if we care about consumers’ concerns, then we should be transparent all the way and give them a real choice. therefore i call on the commission to provide the legal framework for voluntary gm-free labelling at european level.
mr president, the gas crisis has left hundreds of thousands of households across 17 european countries without heating during freezing temperatures. eastern and central europe have been affected the most by the dispute, which has shut down factories and schools. even if kiev and moscow sign the eu-brokered deal after hours of talks with eu officials, gazprom says that the deal to restart gas supplies to europe via ukraine will be delayed as it has not received a copy of the agreement. the team of technical experts sent by the european commission will check flows into ukrainian pipelines from russia and, even if the gas starts to flow in ukraine, it may take about 36 hours to reach eu member states. as a result, europe needs a single policy on energy security in order to avoid future conflicts and it needs to diversity its sources of energy supplies. i welcome the intervention of parliament in the dispute and hope that an agreement will be reached as soon as possible in order to avoid a deepening conflict.
there was a lot of talk, including tonight, about the gas crisis. it is always said how serious and dangerous the level of energy dependence of the european union is. it is repeated every time that the solution is to further reduce dependence on single sources of energy. but we must not forget another imperative, that of energy conservation. what the level of energy waste in the european union is at this moment is hard to say. some analysts are talking about as much as a third of the total consumption. as an example, i can say that if romania's imports of russian gas are about 14 million tons of oil equivalent per year, almost 1 million tons of oil equivalent per year are wasted because of the poor insulation of housing blocks. unfortunately, community legislation is not designed to help solve this problem, because it inexplicably limits the european funds that can be allocated to thermal rehabilitation projects. i think we should ask ourselves every day the question: what is simpler? should we look for new sources of energy, should we look for new transit routes, or should we not forget that by simple methods we can save a good deal of wasted energy?
the european union must give priority to the development of a common energy strategy and an action plan to improve the union's energy security. the interruption of natural gas supplies to the member states of the union via ukraine has shown the union's dependence on its traditional suppliers. the cold temperatures this winter have also caused serious operational problems for electricity suppliers, which have recorded historic consumption figures. the union must develop a european strategy for modernising the energy grid, increasing energy efficiency and diversifying energy supply sources. the nabucco project, the construction of liquefied gas terminals in european ports, investment in safer nuclear power plants, increased energy efficiency and the increased use of renewable energy should be among the common priority actions dedicated to increasing the union's energy security. the european commission, together with the european investment bank and the governments of the member states, must identify and ensure the financing of these priority projects.
and since this year, 2009, is just beginning, i would like to tell you all that, in my opinion, it is not an ordinary year. in 2009, two decades have passed since the end of the cold war and the breaking down of all the walls that divided countries and europe, east and west, into freedom and democracy on the one hand and totalitarian regimes on the other. as a romanian mp, but also as a romanian citizen who has known the dictatorship, i believe that these two decades have meant for some of us a transition, and for the other part, acceptance. i also believe that, despite the context, 2009 should be the year in which our action, and the european commission's action as well, consecrates a europe for all europeans: a europe in which each of the 500 million europeans feels that his rights are guaranteed, that solidarity is real, that no one can be discriminated against, that no one should feel alienated or tolerated in a united europe, that we are all european citizens who feel the same, no matter where we were before 1989.
the use of plant protection products in accordance with efficient agricultural practices is essential for the production of sufficient quantities of quality food, which offers a high level of protection of consumer health and the environment. reducing the risk and impact associated with the use of pesticides and setting targets to reduce the frequency of their use will help to ensure sustainable agriculture. the presence of high levels of pesticides in food consumed in the european union is the result of a dependence on these chemicals, which, although necessary for pest control and increased production yields, can have negative effects on public health. some member states, including romania, are facing a high degree of infestation of agricultural land, with the use of pesticides being the apparent best method of pest control. for this reason, the proposals for the implementation of integrated pesticide management, the use of alternative substances and risk management will encourage the production of appropriate agricultural products, which take into account the environment and the safety of public health, thus reducing dependence on plant protection products. at the same time, the large number of pests on romanian agricultural land forces us to use in-flight treatments. however, once the directive enters into force, such spraying will only take place when no viable alternative pest control solutions are available to ensure a sufficient level of environmental protection. i am pleased with the outcome of the compromise, which has the support of most political groups and which ensures a balance between the availability of plant protection products and, by implication, a sufficient quantity of food, maintaining the competitiveness of european farmers and increasing environmental and health protection.
in writing. – i support the compromise of the breyer report on the placing of plant protection products on the market because it will provide for greater stability and security for farmers and food producers. however, the compromise agreement states that the new legislation would only gradually replace the existing eu law, and that pesticides already approved under current rules would remain available until their existing authorisation expires. products that contain hazardous substances are to be replaced within three years if safer alternatives exist. if voted, the report will be a step towards better health through environmental protection and a means of allowing the eu to move on to a better system without further delays.
in writing. i welcome the text of the compromise on the sustainable use of pesticides and i would like to congratulate mrs klaß on her work. i believe that we have a balanced text here, which prohibits the use of harmful pesticides without harming european agriculture. i am also pleased to note that the non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management do not include the use of gmos as an alternative. there would have been a possibility to include them among the non-chemical methods. this would have opened a door for the future marketing of food containing gmos on the union market. the text of the compromise proves that this is not the case. once again, the european parliament says a decisive no to the use of gmos. the united voice of 58% of european citizens is thus being heard once again. this time we have the member states, represented by the council, with us.
in writing. pesticide regulations are important to reduce the risks to human health and the environment from their use. however, measures taken to this end must be reasonable and take into account both the quality of production and the maximisation of harvests. in the context of the economic crisis, increasing food production may be a solution. as mrs mcguinness noted in her report to the agriculture committee at the end of last year, the price of wheat has risen by 180% in two years, and food prices in general have risen globally by 83%. these high prices are generated by the high standards we impose on european producers. without contesting the need for better regulation of pesticide use, i nevertheless believe that some of the proposed measures will lead to a reduction in the number of plant protection products on the eu market. as a result, productivity in some sectors will decline, such as cereals. certain provisions of this legislation will affect producers by resulting in the prohibition of most pesticides on the market, favouring instead the marketing of products considered safer but also much more expensive. this will increase production costs, with farmers in the new member states being the most disadvantaged.
in writing. the acceptance of this recommendation by all the actors involved will ensure the necessary conditions for the reconciliation of the principles of environmental protection and animal health with the proper functioning of the internal market. the provisions on mutual recognition and the zoning system were accepted by romania, given that clauses were included in the text allowing member states (ms) to take measures to adjust the conditions for authorisation of plant protection products (ppps) to take account of specific conditions, as well as clauses to refuse recognition in specific, justified cases. this option is therefore considered to offer sufficient guarantees. this is coupled with the advantages in reducing the administrative burden, as the ppp assessment will be carried out in only one country within each zone, taking into account the specific conditions of all ms in the zone. as a social democrat, i believe that we must make a sustained effort to protect the environment, human and animal health, without compromising agricultural production.
the urban mobility action plan is a necessity for the union's urban communities. 67% of european citizens expect a european policy to be developed in this respect. what is our response to the european citizens? the costs of congestion in urban traffic amount to about 1% of european gross domestic product. to reduce pollution in the urban environment and to reduce congestion, we need to invest in public transport and intelligent transport systems. last year, we approved the report on the promotion of green vehicles for public transport. prague is the capital that has set the example and last year purchased green buses for urban public transport using state subsidies. i would ask that the commission take urban mobility into account in its mid-term review of the framework for the use of the structural funds.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me congratulate mr belder for this very good report. your report comes at a time when the western balkans are moving closer and closer to the eu and provides a comprehensive overview of the issues at stake in eu-western balkans economic and trade relations. allow me to focus on some points highlighted in your report. the western balkans, as a region, is a key and valuable partner for the eu. the last commission communication on the western balkans in march 2008 reiterates the eu’s strong commitment to the european perspective of the region and confirms, among other things, the importance of the central european free trade agreement for the economic development of the region. the commission agrees with the rapporteur that the perspective of eu membership can act as a catalyst for sustainable economic development and for securing peace and stability within the region. the commission also agrees that the individual fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria is of the utmost importance when judging the readiness of countries in the region to join the eu. the eu is the western balkans’ main trading partner. deeper economic ties between the eu and the region are therefore vital for boosting the region’s economic growth. as rightly pointed out in your report, trade liberalisation and integration is a cornerstone in the stabilisation and association process, and the eu has pursued this objective with the western balkans at three levels. firstly, at the bilateral level, the eu has granted unilateral trade preferences to the western balkans since 2000 so as to facilitate the access of their exports to the eu markets. the commission has negotiated free trade agreements as part of the stabilisation and association agreements to create the conditions for political and economic reforms and to set the basis for the integration of the western balkans into the eu, for example by means of alignment to the acquis. secondly, at the regional level, the european commission acted as a facilitator in the negotiations on the central european free trade agreement (cefta) and decided to provide financial support and technical assistance to the cefta secretariat and to the parties to help implement the agreement. at the same time, the european commission values highly the regional ownership of the agreement and acknowledges that cefta is fundamental for deeper regional economic integration and for preparing the ground for the eventual full participation of the western balkans in the eu single market. moreover, cefta created all the necessary structures to discuss trade-related issues at the regional and bilateral level. this is essential for facilitating and deepening regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. the european commission will continue to monitor implementation of the cefta and will continue to report on this in its yearly report on the accession and pre-accession process. thirdly, at the multilateral level the commission has supported the accession of the countries in the region to the world trade organisation as this is an absolutely fundamental step for effective participation in the globalised economy. the eu has mobilised all available policy instruments to support the countries of the western balkans in their endeavours for reforms and regional cooperation. the instrument for pre-accession assistance is important for addressing the region’s long term development needs. the total funding for the current financial framework for 2007-2013 is eur 11.5 billion. last but not least, the european commission has started dialogues with all the countries concerned in the region to establish roadmaps for lifting the visa regime. in the light of what has been said, let me assure you that the commission is taking all the necessary steps to enhance trade relations and to bring the western balkans’ economy as close as possible to the eu. in conclusion, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur again for this good report and i am pleased to say that the commission shares its general approach.
in writing. i express my support and appreciation for the report presented by mr belder, as it recommends concrete economic measures aimed at the european perspective of the peoples of the western balkans. i want to bring to your attention three ideas: 1. we must realistically recognise that serbia is a key player in the success of the stabilisation and association process and the eu must make further efforts to win the trust and lasting friendship of the serbian people. 2. to no longer allow ethnic separatist tendencies and unilateral proclamations of independence of territories such as kosovo, south ossetia, abkhazia, transnistria, northern cyprus, etc. the principle of territorial integrity of states is sacred and must be respected in the future. 3. at the same time, we must strongly support the respect of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities in the western balkan states, including the rights of the romanian-speaking communities in the timos valley, vojvodina, istria and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to european standards. these rights must be respected, excluding any tendencies to territorial autonomy on ethnic grounds and claims to collective ethnic rights, tendencies that have already proven their potential for conflict and bloodshed.
in writing. the conclusions of the mcguiness report on global food security are now evident in romania: we are facing an increase in the price of all basic food products, driven by the devaluation of the national currency, the rise in raw material prices and the loans contracted by processors. moreover, due to global warming, we have seen crops destroyed more and more often by natural disasters in recent years, and farmers in the new member states are the most disadvantaged in these situations because the level of subsidies granted to them is lower than in the other member states. that is why, through the proposed amendments, i have asked the commission to examine the possibility of setting up intervention mechanisms at community level, independent of specific aid for crop insurance, to prevent and combat the effects of global warming. the eu's standards for food producers are high, and therefore food prices in the eu are high. however, i am convinced that agriculture can be the engine of recovery for european economies hit by the global crisis, and the development of renewable energy sources can have a positive impact on the agri-food sector. by taking the necessary precautions, we can increase biofuel production without endangering the environment or the world's food supply.
in writing. the global food crisis, driven by the continuing rise in the price of maize, wheat and energy, global population growth and climate change, has generated a series of tensions and uprisings that, if not resolved in the near future, could contribute to the destabilisation of countries and regions worldwide. the gap between the rate of population growth that could reach over 9 billion people in 2050 and the shrinking global food supply is alarming. such a situation will most likely lead to the replacement of conflicts over oil with those over clean water and food, respectively, and the struggle for survival. the european union is currently the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, but food supplies are running out and developing countries, particularly in africa, need more support to tackle chronic poverty and hunger. reducing agriculture's dependence on fossil fuels, using organic products, preserving fertile soils and adapting the common agricultural policy to the food crisis are some of the most important elements to be considered in order to overcome this impasse.
in writing. rising energy prices, adverse weather events and increased demand for energy due to global population growth have generated high food prices. i ask the commission to look at the link between high food prices and increasing energy prices, especially for used fuels. the agricultural sector needs to improve energy efficiency. increasing the share of biofuel crops and the use of renewable energy could have a positive impact on the agri-food sector, which is affected by high prices of fertilisers, pesticides, high processing and transport costs. i ask the commission to monitor closely the effects of high biofuel production both in the eu and in third countries on changes in land use, food prices and access to food. incentives for sustainable energy crops should not jeopardise food production. i believe that agricultural research is needed to increase agricultural productivity and i call on the member states to fully exploit the opportunities offered in this respect by the seventh framework programme for research and technological development and to adopt measures to improve agricultural production in a sustainable and energy-efficient way.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the gottardi report and the substance of the report fits well with that of the two earlier commission reports on public finances in the emu released in june 2007 and 2008. the commission also agrees with the three latest amendments tabled by the rapporteur on 7 january. the european parliaments’s report confirms that the revised stability and growth pact (sgp), so far, has been working as it should. in particular, many member states have made considerable efforts to meet their obligations with regard to the pact. since the reform of the sgp, both the corrective and preventive arms have been applied in full accordance with the provisions of the reform pact and any leniency in enforcement has not occurred. however, the report also emphasises the very negative economic outlook for the eu and the euro area for 2009. growth has slowed down considerably, to the point of turning into an outright recession this year. the overall economic prospects for 2010 are also discouraging, so the commission agrees with the european parliament that supporting demand by making use of discretionary fiscal policy measures is now essential. nevertheless, fiscal policy should be maintained on a sustainable course, anchoring expectations of an ordered resolution of the crisis. in this respect the commission shares parliament’s concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances and continues to put emphasis on its assessment. a new report on the long-term stability of public finances in the european union will be issued by the commission in autumn 2009. the commission also takes the european parliament’s view that public expenditure has to be reoriented in order to improve the quality of public spending in line with the lisbon strategy. such a policy orientation is indeed part of the integrated policy guidelines adopted by the european council. work is ongoing at the commission for a more systematic assessment of quality of public finance developments including aspects of performance-based budgeting.
in writing. in the spring of 2006, 12 member states were subject to an excessive deficit procedure. the implementation of the council recommendations and decisions issued for countries with excessive deficits has brought the number of member states subject to an excessive deficit procedure to close to zero two and a half years later. this work was made possible by favourable economic conditions in 2006 and 2007. in 2008-2009 we are facing an economic crisis which has already generated in many member states economic recession, rising unemployment, the bankruptcy of many companies, especially smes. the european economic recovery plan foresees significant public investment to modernise transport and energy infrastructure. member states develop programmes to support smes to continue their work. in these circumstances, euro area member states, like all member states, will have difficulties in complying with the convergence criteria. i believe that measures must be taken at european level to enable the member states to cope with the challenges of the present day: ageing populations, migration, climate change, etc. agriculture, education, health and transport, which are key areas for the union's economic development and for the quality of life of european citizens, must benefit from special public policies.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the report presented and the support given to our perspectives regarding the ecosystem approach. one of the main messages the commission gives in its communication is that, while fisheries depend on healthy marine ecosystems, fisheries management cannot take on the role of overall ocean management on its own. healthy marine ecosystems can only be safeguarded through a policy which involves all sectors which impact on these ecosystems. this is why the commission sees the maritime policy, and especially its environmental pillar, the marine strategy directive, as key to the implementation of an ecosystem approach. this approach will give assurances to the fishing industry that all human impacts on marine ecosystems, not only fisheries, are addressed in a proportionate and coherent way. this is also the overall thrust of the report and we appreciate the agreement on this point. i will emphasise that this does not mean that one policy is subordinate to another – that we, by taking this approach are establishing a hierarchy between, for instance, the marine strategy directive and the common fisheries policy. the marine strategy directive serves the common fisheries policy by being the necessary integrative instrument to safeguard the resource base for fisheries in the future, and the common fisheries policy will contribute to the marine strategy directive by putting in place management measures necessary to support the objectives for healthy marine ecosystems. as stated in the report, meeting food needs, safeguarding fishing industries and fishing communities, and preserving the sustainability of marine ecosystems are not irreconcilable. on the contrary, in the long term there is a synergy between these objectives. the report touches on many questions regarding the specific instruments to be utilised in the future. these are important and pertinent questions which we will address in the debate regarding the reform of the common fisheries policy. i will therefore not comment specifically on these questions here. i will, however, point out that there are a couple of points where we may be in disagreement. it is indicated that fishermen affected by management plans and measures to protect ecosystems should be subsidised or compensated. we do not think that direct subsidies is a way forward, but that the solution is to help the industry to be more economically resilient and to help coastal communities diversify into other economic activities. it is also indicated that restocking from aquaculture may be an instrument to replenish wild fish stocks. although this may be an option in a few very specific cases, we do not think that this is the way forward in general. fish stocks should be rebuilt by proper management of the human impacts on the marine ecosystems, including the impacts of both fisheries and other sectors. we will return to a more detailed debate on the instruments for fisheries management in the context of the debate and development of the common fisheries policy reform, starting with our publication of a green paper in april. in the mean time, i thank parliament for its support for our approach as expressed through this report.
in writing. fish stocks in eu waters are declining both because of overfishing and poorly managed gear, and because of the impact of other sectors on marine biological life, especially tourism. scientific research to identify the factors influencing marine ecosystems, including the impact of climate change, will ensure that it is possible to determine the evolution of fisheries resources and take precautionary measures to prevent the rapid and continuous depletion of fish stocks. as fishing is an essential activity for ensuring food and human survival, the management of sustainable fisheries resources becomes fundamental in the context of the deterioration of marine biodiversity. for this reason, the social, economic and environmental components must be taken into account in all initiatives for the sustainable development of coastal areas in the european union.
in writing. i was delighted to read on the european parliament's website that the subject of gender equality was ranked third in the top most read news stories in 2008. the very high level of interest in this subject shows us, however, that much more needs to be done, especially in the area of equal treatment between men and women in terms of access to employment, training and promotion. in this respect, the report by mrs teresa riera madurell is a success in clarifying the role of employers and civil society in promoting gender equality. i consider the commission's role in the fight for gender equality at work to be very important, as it must first check how the eu member states have acted positively in relation to the disadvantages women have faced in their professional careers. and i am referring in particular to the integration and respect of the principle of gender equality in the administrative and political decision-making of the member states. at the same time as the reports sent to the commission every four years, each member state is required to provide a coherent presentation of the actual sanctions for infringements of this directive, which would greatly help to develop the exchange of experience and good practices.
in writing. the introduction of the single currency, the euro, 10 years ago marked the culmination of a process whose implications go far beyond the economic sphere, with the finalisation of economic and monetary union demonstrating the commitment of the member states to ensure both the economic and political unity of the eu. the success of the euro is therefore the success of the process of building an entity to ensure the international promotion of european values and the affirmation of the european union as the main actor in trade and financial relations in the world economy. i believe that the advantages offered by the adoption of the single euro currency - linked to macroeconomic stability, a significant reduction in price volatility, the promotion of job creation and the support of productivity growth, all against the background of increased resistance to external shocks - justify the new member states, and in particular romania, to make every effort to meet the convergence criteria as soon as possible and to join the euro area.
in writing. almost a year ago, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the european central bank (ecb) and the creation of economic and monetary union (emu), we pointed out that: after 10 years of existence, the results achieved by emu are undeniable successes. i believe this assessment is timely, as i am convinced of the importance of the solidarity that member states must show in their joint action to combat the effects of the financial crisis and to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis. europe is in the most precarious economic situation since the end of the second world war. in this context, the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the euro should bring to mind the great projects of european construction. the introduction of the single european currency, like the creation of emu, was a joint decision made through coordination and solidarity around european values. this is the kind of attitude we need this year to create and implement successful counter-crisis measures. european competitiveness must be maintained in the euro area and enhanced in the member states preparing to join the euro area, and the divergent interests of emu members must be subordinated to the common economic interest of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the romanian aviation industry will also benefit directly. the negotiated agreement broadly reflects the structure of a classic aviation safety agreement; the agreement is based on mutual trust in the parties' systems and on comparison of regulatory differences. it shall include obligations and methods of cooperation between the importing and exporting authorities. however, the modalities for achieving this objective, namely cooperation and mutual acceptance of the results of the airworthiness and maintenance certification are laid down in the annexes to the agreement, whereas in conventional agreements these types of measures are normally laid down in separate non-binding agreements at civil aviation authority level. the annexes broadly reflect the content of the community implementing rules on airworthiness (commission regulation no 1702/2003) and maintenance (commission regulation no 2042/2003) to be amended by the parties by a decision of the bilateral oversight committee.
in writing. − as rapporteur of the european parliament on the legislative dossier on the extension of the powers of the european aviation safety agency (easa), i welcome the negotiated agreement with the united states on facilitating the mutual acceptance of civil aviation safety certificates. this agreement is an important step in the expansion of transatlantic cooperation, which is a priority objective of the epp-ed group. this provides a solid basis for strengthening trade and services in civil aviation between the european union and the united states, which is undoubtedly to the advantage of the european side. the agreement provides for increased safety guarantees and enhanced compatibility of products, components and aircraft with the increased requirements of environmental protection. in these circumstances, we can hope for a future transatlantic extension of the principles of the 'single european sky' and for the expansion of cooperation in research and the implementation of new technologies in this field through collaboration between sesar and nextgen. i believe that the agreement will allow, in the long term, a mutually beneficial extension of the framework of cooperation between easa and the faa, the direct beneficiaries being, without doubt, the airlines, the aviation industry and, above all, the passengers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for better company law in the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the common tax regime applicable to mergers, divisions, partial divisions, transfers of assets or exchanges of shares between companies in different member states, as these legal operations bring about fundamental changes in the legal status of companies and the european union must take the necessary measures to ensure uniform, harmonised and effective regulation. as a jurist i have supported and will continue to support in the european parliament all efforts to harmonize and codify at european level the rules in the field of taxation, economic, civil and criminal law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the rules of procedure of the court of first instance contain no provision on the language of the case to be used in appeal proceedings (against decisions of the civil service tribunal) and there is in fact no article equivalent to article 110 of the rules of procedure of the court of justice.
in writing. - i voted for this report on trade and economic relations with the western balkans because the european parliament's motion for a resolution also includes the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on regional development (a6-0489/2008) to which i belong. economic growth and development in the western balkans will provide the basis for constructive partnerships with the eu's eastern member states and, ultimately, with romania. at the same time, aligning the economic and trade policy of the western balkan countries with the european union's policy will preserve the stabilisation and association agreements between the eu and these countries. i voted for this report because economic stability can bring political stability to this area that has been so much troubled over time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in europe civil society plays an important role in the process of european integration, by conveying the views and demands of union citizens to the european institutions. the european union needs a wider public debate, more effective civil dialogue and a development of political awareness to achieve its political goals and objectives, which are recognised in this report. the report also highlights the importance of the expertise that civil society provides to the institutions and underlines the role and significance of the information and awareness-raising functions of civil dialogue. i hope that the existing eu initiatives aimed at increasing the involvement of civil society in the european integration process will continue in the future. i am referring to initiatives such as europe by satellite, the citizens' agora and thematic forums for citizens. i hope that this report will encourage the council of the european union to facilitate and simplify access to its work, which is a basic prerequisite for a genuine dialogue with civil society.
i congratulate mr carlos coelho on this report. i welcome this initiative, which represents real progress following the thessaloniki european council, by linking the travel document to its holder and by adopting the 'one person, one passport' principle. i would like to stress three important points. first, the need to apply the principles and exceptions set out in this report to the results and problems encountered in practice. the emphasis should therefore be on the three-year review period set by the commission as the timeframe within which both the member states and the commission must try to identify recommendations between theoretical principles and practical impediments. secondly, there is a serious problem with regard to the security of the data stored and the protection of the identity of the holder. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to develop common principles for the documents required for the issuing of travel documents or passports, this stage being essential both for ensuring the security of databases and for preventing the falsification of these documents.
romania introduced the use of biometric passports as of 1 january 2009. this type of passport has 50 security features and includes for the first time in the european union both facial and fingerprint identification. romania has thus taken an important step towards joining the schengen area, scheduled for 2011. the introduction of biometric passports cancels the last substantive condition for romania's inclusion in the visa waiver program. consequently, the refusal of visa exemption for romanians to the united states is henceforth based on purely subjective grounds and i hope that the united states will take this into account. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on the important improvements he has made to the regulation, in particular the creation of a uniform european system for checking the compatibility of biometric elements with data stored on a chip.
the harmonisation of security standards for biometric passports at european level is an extension of the provisions of the schengen acquis. the regulation provides for a general obligation to provide fingerprints, which are stored on a contactless chip in the passport. i support the exceptions to the provision of fingerprints for children under 12 and call for the revision and harmonisation of specific national legislation. i consider that the processing of data contained in biometric passports must be carried out in compliance with community legislation on the protection of personal data and privacy. the commission and the member states should take the necessary measures to ensure this with regard to the processing of biometric passport data, both at the border and in the process of maintaining the related databases, where national law so provides. however, i would point out that limiting the validity of a biometric passport for persons whose fingerprints are temporarily or permanently unavailable to 12 months or less makes life more difficult for people with disabilities and i ask the commission to re-evaluate the relevant text.
in writing. the threat of terrorism has led to the need to introduce additional security and biometric features to ensure greater protection for passengers travelling within the european union. the most important elements of the proposed regulation are the fight against child trafficking by introducing the 'one person, one passport' principle and the introduction of exemptions for fingerprinting children under 12. however, the legislation of some member states provides for the provision of fingerprints from children under 12 years of age, but this will only be possible for a transitional period of 4 years, the age limit being, however, not to exceed 6 years. certain pilot studies carried out by member states have shown that the fingerprints of children under the age of 6 years are not of good quality and may change during growth. by setting an age limit, the risk of fingerprinting being used to misidentify a person is reduced and the possibility of child trafficking is made more difficult. the need to protect travellers has become increasingly evident since the events of 11 september 2001, but the increased level of security protection must be accompanied by the safeguarding of the rights and dignity of passengers, as laid down in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
the european union is founded on the principle of transparency, to which the treaty on european union refers in articles 1 and 6 and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in article 41. from the outset, europe has promoted decision-making that is as transparent and as close to the citizen as possible. the european parliament, by its nature, is the first to promote public access to the decision-making process, with differing opinions on legislative and non-legislative work contributing to the confidence of european citizens in the european institutions. at the moment, public access to documents of the european institutions is quite good. it is clear, however, that the 2001 european legislation governing this right of access needs to be updated. the parliament has asked the commission since 2006 to submit proposals to amend the regulation, making several recommendations: - all documents used to draft legal acts to be directly accessible to the public and - the establishment of a single access point to documents used to draft legislation. the commission took account of these recommendations, which were, moreover, included in the new 2008 proposal for a regulation. during the decision-making process, the parties are confronted with diverse, sometimes contradictory opinions. negotiations lead to the best decision acceptable to all. the european citizen must be informed about the whole process leading to the adoption of decisions, because these decisions directly affect his life.
i would like to point out that, while mr cappato initially had an initiative with broad support, the 18 amendments introduced subsequently led to a loss of initial support. i would argue, however, that public access to parliament, council and commission documents is essential to bringing the european union closer to its citizens. i would first of all like to stress the need to publish the main documents in the comitology procedure. secondly, i think that the amendments tabled by the member in the parliamentary committees to which he belongs should also be published on the website of the european parliament, in the personal file of each member's activities. the citizen must be able to see clearly what amendments the mep has tabled in the european decision-making process, alongside reports, resolutions, plenary speeches. thirdly, the european council, when acting as a co-legislating institution alongside parliament, should publish its debates as parliament publishes its own. the council should be transparent by publishing its debates now, before the lisbon treaty requires it to do so.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr lambsdorff, on his excellent report. i know he dedicated himself to this very important work. i consider it vital to create a common arms market and to establish a legal framework for this in order to further develop the european security and defence policy (esdp). i also welcome the important achievement that the principles of the treaty, in particular transparency, non-discrimination and openness, will also be implemented in the defence and security market and, as has already been said, this will result in an improvement of the efficiency of defence spending. the commission’s proposal, as well as mr lambsdorff’s report, managed to establish a set of rules concerning procurement contracts in the field of security and defence, which allow the proper functioning of the common arms market. i want to refer to at least two major improvements for both suppliers and the contracting authorities which aim to protect the security of the eu and its member states. i would mention here the provisions relating to the security of supply, namely information about tenderers and subcontractors provided to the contracting authorities and the commitments tenderers have to make to ensure security of supply. on the other hand, tenderers are also protected by the introduction of the review procedure, which guarantees the awarding process is fair and no discrimination occurs. the proposal increases the transparency in the work procedure, but member states should not at all be reluctant to it as their security interests are safeguarded, especially by maintaining the derogations from the disclosure of information when security interests are at stake. in conclusion, i should like to emphasise the fact that it is very important for us to have a common european market for defence. at the same time, when we are discussing this issue – the common european defence market – or perhaps if we discuss more sensitive issues like offsets in the future, we should seriously take into consideration the strategic interests and the concrete situation of each and every member state.
mr president, the directive on defence procurement is an important step towards both the edem and the esdp. i recognise the difficulties of reconciling free market principles with inevitable discretion on defence deals, and common rules covering the award of public contracts with individual practices regarding defence contracts. this very complex set of regulations has, of course, to pass the test of practice, because trying to fit in the same box adverse elements like transparency and secrecy, and commonality and individuality, will require constant monitoring and the determination to penalise any individual attempt to favour one over the other in a continuous effort to keep a fine balance between all four. proper functioning will then be both a function and a reflection of the determination of the eu bodies to referee this nascent european market, and of the true willingness of national defence champions and the member states behind them to respect and play the game according to these new rules. one word on offsetting. for countries like mine, romania, offset is, at least for the time being, an important mechanism to ensure the survival of our national industry.
the european union's unity and security were again put at risk in the wake of the financial and energy crises. it has been demonstrated once again that only through unity and solidarity can the major problems of the contemporary world be successfully tackled. the introduction of common and transparent rules for procurement on the market for security and defence products is an important step in strengthening european security policy. it is also a market economy way for the european industry to compete successfully with the major international players, especially the united states. a strong community regime on information security needs to be established as soon as possible and adequate controls on exports of security and defence products and equipment to third countries need to be established. the ratification and entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will allow the establishment of permanent structured cooperation in the field of security policy, which is essential for the future of the union.
i would like to mention that 2009 is the year of innovation and creativity. we also have another priority, namely climate change, and we must not forget that, also in the european economic recovery plan, the need to finance priority infrastructures such as energy and transport is a priority. how is this reflected in the budget reform?
member of the commission. − concerning a reality check, i agree fully that any decisions we make, especially strategic ones, need to be very politically responsible. we should not change the best, but we need to get rid of what is old or not very effective. concerning the mid-term review, i think there is a misunderstanding. we have never been asked to prepare a mid-term review of the european budget. we have been asked to prepare the full-range budget reform paper by the end of 2009, and it is up to us to decide the timing – where politically it is more proper or where we can have a more efficient and effective response. personally, i would like it to be prepared earlier – maybe in the spring. but i have to take a serious reality check because we have elections, perhaps the ratification of the lisbon treaty etc. we should not waste a good proposal and allow operational events to overshadow it. let us leave it to president barroso to decide on the final date, but we are ready and this commission is ready to do its job. komisijos narė. − j. palecki, jūsų klausimai yra iš tikrųjų labai svarbūs, labai gilūs ir netgi sakyčiau gilesni ir svarbesni, negu visas europos biudžetas galėtų atsakyti. iš tiesų jūsų klausimai strateginiai, o į tokią finansinę krizę, kokia įvyko, joks biudžetas operatyviai reaguoti negalėjo ir ateityje negalės. europos biudžetas tik 1 proc. nuo bendro produkto, o finansinė krizė kilo didesne dalimi ne dėl pinigų stokos, o dėl galbūt, sakyčiau, priežiūros funkcijų, dėl finansinės sistemos globalizacijos, jos monopolizacijos ir dėl daugelio kitų priežasčių. europos biudžetas, kaip labai nedidelis tarptautinės organizacijos biudžetas, be abejo, turi tam tikrą instrumentų rinkinį, bet jis tikrai nėra didelis. ir tas rinkinys didesne dalimi susideda ne iš pačių finansų ar pinigų, o daugiau iš reguliacinių priemonių, kontrolinių priemonių, rekomendacinių priemonių, įskaitant ir makroekonominės politikos srityje. ir tai yra, ko gero, netgi svarbiau, negu kiek konkrečiai pinigų mes turime, ar galime įdėti. taigi šiuo metu mes iš tiesų turime globalizacijos fondą, turime lankstumo instrumentą ir kitus, bet jie nėra labai efektyvūs ir operatyvūs. būtent dėl to mūsų „recovery“ plane komisija pasiūlė investuoti tuos 5 milijardus į strateginius elektros jungčių ir kitų energetinių infrastruktūros projektų struktūrinius pasikeitimus ir kol kas šalys neskuba ir nelabai noriai diskutuoja šiuo klausimu. būtent krizė rodo, kad investuoti į strateginius, energetinius ir kitus strateginius bendrus europinius projektus be galo svarbu. ir aš labai tikiuosi, kad ši krizė bus viena iš tų pamokų, į kurias europai reikia labai rimtai atsižvelgti. taip pat tikiuosi, kad ji turėtų padėti susikoncentruoti ir ateityje europos biudžetą naudoti tik ten, kur galime gauti didžiausią naudą, nes jis pernelyg mažas, kad aprėptų viską ir išspręstų viską. taigi, į jūsų labai tokius bendrus klausimus nėra lengva atsakyti, bet kaip minėjau, aš labai tikiuosi, kad ši krizinė situacija pasaulyje ir ekonomikos nuosmukis, kuris dabar matomas visoje europoje, iš tiesų turėtų padėti politikams investuoti daugiau į europinę strategiją.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i therefore reply to mr ó neachtain's question. the commission has been pursuing a policy to combat cybercrime for several years. it does so in close cooperation with the member states and the other institutions of the european union. the commission contributes to the fight against cybercrime in four ways: by promoting cooperation between member states, by facilitating public-private partnerships, by developing different legal instruments and, finally, by engaging in cooperation with third countries. the 2007 communication 'towards a comprehensive policy on combating cybercrime' enabled the commission to promote the exchange of information in the field of cybercrime between member states' law enforcement agencies, either bilaterally or via europol. member states should designate permanent contact points through which other member states may request assistance or information. the commission also contributed to the council conclusions on a strategy to combat cybercrime, adopted last november. the strategy proposes a series of measures to encourage cooperation between member states to combat crimes such as child pornography, terrorism, attacks on information systems and fraud. a platform for reporting offences detected on the internet should be set up to centralise cybercrimes in order to allow them to be aggregated by europol. at the same time, the commission is developing a policy of partnership between law enforcement and the private sector to tackle cybercrime. the jai council of 8 december 2008 made recommendations on public-private cooperation against cybercrime. the commission also wants to set up a european financial coalition against commercial child pornography. the aim of this coalition is to combine the efforts of different public and private actors to combat the production, distribution and sale of child pornography images on the internet. finally, the commission has been heavily involved in the development of legislation which sets minimum standards for the harmonization of appropriate criminal legislation. this is the case with framework decision 2005/222/jha on attacks against information systems and framework decision 2004/68/jha on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the commission is now studying how to update and put these instruments into practice. i conclude by saying that it is important to remember that the internet is a global information network. the european union cannot come up with regulations on its own. that is why the commission wants to promote international cooperation in this area and we will be organising a meeting with international organisations and european union agencies this year to try to coordinate the respective activities of these international organisations and european union agencies. this is what i can say to mr ó neachtain.
i would like to ask what measures the commission is considering for the member states to adopt the council of europe convention on cybercrime, what action plan the commission is considering to improve and combat cybercrime and also what measures are you considering on the interoperability of electronic signatures?
madam president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for coming here today to outline the czech presidency’s programme. however, i will draw attention to some issues that i hope your presidency can address. firstly, the motto you have chosen is ‘europe without barriers’. i agree with the premise of this motto. it should especially hold true for european citizens who have the right to move and reside freely within the eu. i am the rapporteur on the application of the free movement directive. unfortunately, it seems that your motto is under threat from national authorities. the commission has recently released a very disappointing report on the implementation of this directive. given the directive’s improper transposition by member states, i would hope that you will give this issue much more weight than is indicated by your programme in the area of freedom and security. secondly, in addition to some daunting issues that you will have to confront during your presidency – such as the continuing global financial crisis and energy security concerns – you will also have a large legislative burden. therefore, i trust that you will employ all the necessary means to properly conclude the numerous outstanding reports before the end of the parliamentary mandate. in particular, expectations have been created for european citizens on price reduction for voice, sms and data roaming. i hope that you will honour your commitment to reach a first reading agreement with my roaming ii report. thank you, and i wish you the best of luck during your presidency.
'economy, energy and the european union in the world' is the motto of the czech presidency of the union. european citizens expect the european institutions to protect them from crises and improve their quality of life. the european union's economic recovery plan, increased energy efficiency and security of energy supply are the priorities of european citizens today. i ask the czech presidency that, despite the approach of the european elections, or especially for that reason, we show vision, political will and above all commitment to the european citizens. together we can reach an agreement on the first reading of the energy performance of buildings directive and i assure you that both the european parliament and the european commission are ready to support you in making the energy performance of buildings directive one of the outcomes of the czech presidency.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the czech republic on taking over the presidency of the european union. i also appreciate that it was possible to draw up an 18-month programme in a process of cooperation with france - which held the previous presidency of the european union - and sweden, which will take over the eu presidency in the second half of this year. the challenges that have marked the beginning of this presidency - the war in gaza and the interruption of russian gas supplies, as well as the global economic crisis - have confirmed that the priorities identified by the czech republic are as relevant as possible. of the three priorities announced by the czech presidency - energy, the economy and europe in the world - i would like to mention the energy component. i personally believe that europe needs a single energy policy so as to avoid over-dependence on a single pool of resources. in this respect, i support the need to develop relationships with new suppliers, but also the importance of investing in unconventional energy production technologies. we need to improve transportation infrastructure and pay proper attention to the construction of the nabucco pipeline route. i also believe that it is a priority to shorten the procedures for the implementation of projects concerning alternative energy sources and unconventional energy.
in writing. the czech republic, which took over the presidency of the council of the european union on 1 january 2009, is facing, along with other countries that joined the eu in 2004 and since, some problems related to the poor state of thermal insulation of a significant number of residential buildings. given the significant energy savings and reduction of heating costs borne by citizens that could be achieved by thermal rehabilitation of these buildings, and the limited possibilities of using the structural and cohesion funds for investments in this area, i believe that the czech presidency of the council should include this issue among its priorities. second, as regards the european arrest warrant, the czech republic made a declaration, on the basis of article 32 of the framework decision, that it applies the surrender procedure 'only for offences committed after 1 november 2004'. similar regulations are in force in other european countries. such examples erode citizens' confidence in the effectiveness of european crime-fighting policies. the czech republic's holding of the council presidency is a good opportunity to re-examine these statements.
in writing. at the beginning of my speech, i would like to take up an idea that i raised on monday at the opening of the plenary session: you are holding the presidency at a time of special significance for each of us - this year marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain. as i said on monday, for us, but especially for the millions of citizens who sent us here, these 20 years have meant in one way waiting and in another acceptance. maybe it was normal, we couldn't get rid of the burden of 50 years that separated us from the rest of europe any faster. i wanted to congratulate you on the inclusion of the third priority - europe in the world - but especially on the priority approach to the eastern partnership. our history, romania's and the czech republic's, has two strong common landmarks: 1968 and then the prague spring, which was for us, for romanians subjected to the cruelest communist dictatorship, a ray of light that guided us on the road to freedom. i want to ask you, as a romanian mp, to give substance and concreteness to the eastern partnership. there are millions of citizens in this area who need a renewal of hope through a symbolic resumption now, in the coming months, of the prague spring. and it's our chance, and yours, to understand the weight of that expectation.
in writing. i welcome the czech presidency's prioritisation of the energy issue. the unacceptable events of recent weeks regarding the security of gas supply to some eu member states have once again demonstrated the need for a european energy policy, implemented through clear european projects and supported by european funds. the eu's internal market in natural gas can only function normally with the rapid development of natural gas storage facilities, including liquefied natural gas, and by accelerating the nabucco project.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it clarifies important points concerning the standards required for issuing biometric passports. i also hope that the introduction of biometric passports (in romania from 1 january 2009) will lead to romania's inclusion in the us visa waiver program and accelerate the integration process into the schengen area. however, we must be careful about the reliability of biometric techniques, as they have proven ineffective in identifying children under the age of 6. member states should soon launch a new pilot project to analyse the reliability of this identification system and which will certainly help to identify any errors recorded in the member states.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr catania because i do not agree with article 49, a controversial article which encourages solving the problems of 'traditional national minority communities' through 'self-government (personal, cultural, territorial, regional autonomy) '. i am a supporter of the rights of persons belonging to minorities, but i categorically reject the idea of territorial autonomy on ethnic criteria and collective rights of minorities, an idea which in practice has generated ethnic separatism and interethnic conflict. the unclear and controversial concepts of 'self-governance' and 'cultural autonomy' also have a potential for conflict. these concepts go beyond current european standards in international law on the rights of persons belonging to national minorities and lead us into an area of controversy. i believe that eu member states have the sovereign right to decide for themselves the extent to which they accept or reject such concepts, and the eu must respect and guarantee the sovereignty and integrity of its member states.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it contains approaches to encouraging multiple abortions, same-sex marriage or autonomy on ethnic grounds.
in writing. − the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union includes amendments tabled by me which i consider important for romanian citizens (for example, the amendment on the abolition of restrictions on the labour market for citizens of new member states). they also agree with many of the issues promoted in the report, such as the roma integration strategy, the protection of minorities, the rights of migrant workers and child protection. however, the report also contains references that call into question some fundamental principles of romanian society (such as the view of the family as the basic element of society) or that contravene romanian legislation (such as drug use). for these reasons, on the final vote, i voted against.
in writing. − the report presented by giusto catani is rich in interpretations and general recommendations on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu countries. but the regulatory framework we need is there: the charter of fundamental rights of the human being and the european convention on human rights. the priority at present is not to bring in new regulations but to make the existing ones functional and efficient. one of the issues covered by the report is the free movement of labour, which unfortunately cannot be enjoyed by all european citizens equally at present. although the two-year period of labour market restrictions imposed on the new member states expired at the end of 2008, six of the member states extended the restrictions for romania and bulgaria for a further three years, justifying their decision to extend the period of restrictions in the context of the financial crisis. the report does not explicitly discuss this issue, although it is a question of differential treatment, and this time unjustified, among citizens of the union.
in writing. - i voted against this report which contains, in addition to at least 10 critical points (we can indulgently define them as such), an intolerable reference to council of europe recommendation 1201. this recommendation should not be invoked without a very rigorous clarification of the interpretation given to it, as it could be interpreted as granting collective rights to minorities or territorial autonomy on ethnic grounds. i welcome the adoption of amendment no 35, which is very reasonable, but a number of aspects of the report cannot, in my view, be accepted.
in writing. − it goes without saying that the epp and the pd-l value and respect fundamental human rights and take a firm stand when they are violated. i voted against the catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in the period 2004-08 because the rapporteur has exceeded his mandate by making recommendations and comments that go beyond the period 2004-08 to which he was obliged to report. instead of dealing with concrete cases of human rights violations, the rapporteur catania comments and recommends that member states apply regulations that contradict the rules of national law. thus, articles 38 and 76 use the notion of same-sex marriage, which violates not only our religious beliefs, but also legal and doctrinal ones. article 149 speaks of the legalization of drug use, which violates the romanian criminal law. although the initiative of a report on the human rights situation in the european union is commendable and some of the statements in the report are correct, in view of the above, i voted against.
in writing. − the two recent enlargements of the european union, which have included the former socialist states of central and eastern europe, have also opened a new chapter in the community's approach to human rights issues. since then, it has become clear that the protection of fundamental rights - and, within these, the rights of national minorities - is the greatest challenge for the community in the new member states. the report by mr catania, drawn up on his own initiative, stresses that the principles of subsidiarity and self-determination should be the guiding principles for policies to address the problems of traditional national minority communities in a way that provides a satisfactory solution to their situation. the report encourages the use of cultural, territorial and regional forms of autonomy. it is also welcome that my colleague from catania's report calls for the definition of belonging to a national minority and proposes the establishment of a minimum set of standards for the community in order to protect the rights of these communities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because ratification of the convention will significantly contribute to the promotion of decent work standards worldwide, it is in favour of the agreement between the social partners on certain aspects concerning the working conditions of workers in the maritime transport sector, because it creates an acceptable balance between the need to improve working conditions and the need to protect the health and safety of seafarers, and because this occupational category exists in romania.
in writing. − the resolution proposed by mary lou mcdonald summarises the main points that the proposal for a council directive on the maritime labour convention, 2006, and amending directive 1999/63/ec (com (2008) 422) must take into account. maritime workers are among those who work in extremely difficult, often dangerous, conditions. that is why we need standards for working conditions, which take account of their health and safety, but also clear rules for employment. the establishment of these standards must start from the needs and problems identified by maritime workers and fishermen, but also ensure flexibility in the application by member states. the documents we adopt at european level must be followed by action by the member states and monitoring by the commission to ensure that the provisions are applied. moreover, as regards maritime labour standards, the european union has the opportunity to be a leader in translating them into principles applicable anywhere in the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the andrikienė report on the future of the un human rights council because i believe that the eu needs a long-term strategy for the work of this institution, which must become the main global forum for human rights. i believe that eu member states need to show more unity and efficiency in promoting common eu positions on human rights. the eu must become a global leader and initiator of strategies for the defence of human rights in the world. we must pay greater attention to promoting economic, social and cultural human rights, because poverty, backwardness, low levels of education and culture among the population have negative multiplier effects. to gain much wider support for its positions, the eu needs to create coalition mechanisms and initiate regular meetings on specific issues with all democratic states on other continents. it is also essential that states send to international fora specialists with real expertise in the field, which is strongly and fully recommended in ms andrikienė's report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because respect for, and the promotion and guarantee of, the universality of human rights are an integral part of the legal acquis of the european union and one of the fundamental principles of the eu, and because the united nations and the unhrc are one of the most appropriate organisations for a comprehensive approach to human rights issues and humanitarian challenges. i consider human rights and democracy to be essential elements of the eu's external relations and foreign policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the development of the un human rights council because, in recognition of both its indisputable achievements and its efforts to increase the credibility and the degree of protection of human rights, i am convinced that its functioning can be improved in the future. i also believe that the european union's role must remain active and visible in the establishment and functioning of the un council. i also appreciate that the report calls on the european union to reaffirm and strongly defend the principles of the universality, indivisibility and independence of human rights.
in writing. − the right of access to parliament, council and commission documents is a fundamental right enjoyed by all citizens and residents of the european union (under articles 254 and 255 of the ec treaty). i would like to stress one point, however: i believe that the publication of the working documents of the european institutions is only a first step, because most european citizens do not understand our procedures and will not know how to find the information they need. i agree with my colleague on this, who proposes that a single portal for all documents be set up at eu level and that this portal be structured in such a way that it is understandable to everyone. this portal should present the information in an accessible and simplified way so that european citizens can use it without problems. there are certainly technical solutions and i hope that financial resources will be found to build this portal. however, i voted against the report because, although the overall framework is correct, some of the points proposed by my colleague are unacceptable.
the conflict, which has been going on for a very long time, is based on territorial issues, but also on cultural differences that are sometimes overstated. the long-term solution is a secure and protected state of israel alongside a sustainable palestinian state. but this solution cannot be achieved by terrorist attacks or armed action. in order to achieve a normal standard of living, the palestinian people must establish a state based on democratic institutions and the rule of law, which ensures economic development; they must renounce terrorist acts and concern themselves with creating a normal political climate, which allows the election of politicians to the leadership of the state who genuinely want to resolve the conflict through negotiations.
in writing. i'm concerned about what's happening in the middle east. what is needed for peace? how many civilian casualties are necessary for a real ceasefire? in bosnia and herzegovina, it took at least 10,000 people to have peace talks, to have peacekeepers arrive on the scene, to have disarmament begin. in the days since, we've been remembering the destruction of grand duke. in this city of transylvania and its surroundings, thousands of innocent civilians, including women and children, were slaughtered 160 years ago. since then, the majority has failed to remember the victims. but perhaps the time will come when israelis and palestinians not only remember each other's sacrifices together, but also build lasting peace and a future together. until then, the eu will continue to set a responsible example. we have a lot to do for reconciliation in europe. there must be equal cooperation between the majority and the minority. the least we can do is remember the victims together. we also have a lot of work to do within the eu to respect individual and minority rights.
mr president, the problem we are coping with is not a mere russia-ukraine dispute. there is a europe-russia dispute having as its object the geopolitical status of ukraine, a european union-ukraine dispute having as its object the european perspectives of ukraine, a european union-russia dispute having as its object the russian monopoly on the gas supply and a european union-ukraine dispute having as its object the ukrainian monopoly on gas transit. all these disputes combined place us in the middle of an energy war, which is about power-sharing. in this war we are not hostages but combatants. we are not mediators but one of the sides having a legitimate interest. this war extends its consequences from one crisis to another. could we cease the combat and organise a peace conference? we need rules for a free energy market shared by our russian and ukrainian partners. we need guarantees and mechanisms to enhance these rules and an arbitration system for dispute settlement as well as an institution to put in motion those mechanisms. we need a common european energy policy, served by appropriate legal and political instruments and consolidated by an integrated agreement with the supply and transit countries, russia and ukraine respectively. sanctions cannot work. confrontation is not the solution either. let us be united and negotiate strategically and comprehensively. to this end, we have to organise an interparliamentary ad hoc working group formed by european parliament, russian duma and ukrainian rada representatives to follow the process of consensus and strategy-building on a permanent basis as long as necessary.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, firstly let me offer my apologies to you. i am here for the first time and perhaps i spent so long on the introduction that i contributed to the delay. but i think this summary of how we have been acting since the early morning of 1 january was worthwhile. speaking with one voice is exactly what we are trying to do in this adventure. i think we are quite successful in doing that for the time being. you mentioned the internal energy package. this is not a subject of the current debate; we are discussing the emergency situation. but i can tell you that, from what i know of the discussion in the council, the various fears about going for complete unbundling were simply motivated by strategic concerns in some countries. this is the debate about a third-country clause etc. however, i mentioned in my statement here that the czech presidency takes this as one of its priorities, and we will do whatever we can to find a solution and compromise between the council and parliament. but do not expect that it will bring us a miraculous solution like in those kinds of gas games in central and eastern europe. it is different from being on an island, where you have the freedom to bring energy into any port you wish, as opposed to being located somewhere like slovakia or bulgaria. yes, you are right that there are countries which are better equipped, even in that particular region, for that kind of emergency situation. however, i think we should also be aware of the fact that, for example, you cannot build gas storage facilities wherever you want. you need the right kind of a geological environment. for example, we are fortunate in my country that all storage facilities are located in the eastern part of the country. we can pump from those storages and distribute gas even if there is almost no supply from outside. we are able to survive for a few weeks or months, but no longer. on the other hand, slovakia unfortunately has those geological positions in the western part of the country and to reverse the flow is not an easy operation. you need to have the compressors on the pipelines and, if you do not, then it causes trouble. to those who argue that this is a political problem: concerning speaking with one voice, i can tell you from all my experience that of course it is a political problem. it is a political problem because people are freezing so it is a politically difficult situation. of course i agree with those, like jacek saryusz-wolski or istván szent-iványi, who argue that this is a kind of cynical game and, in fact, at the heart of this is the fight about who is going to control the infrastructure in the country in question. others, like hannes swoboda and jan marinus wiersma, stress that we should not take a black-and-white approach to this and that ukraine deserves some attention – you are also right: of course ukraine is not making this easier. that is, at least, my own view. but then we should be aware of the fact that bulgaria and slovakia are in a terrible situation, because suddenly there is a country that wants to exploit this difficult situation and to put those countries into conflict with ukraine. that is what we can see right now, from the developments today, for example. so it is difficult – what can we do? then there are those who are afraid to enter into the game at all because they view it as being like the card game schwarzer peter, with the danger that whoever ends up with the black card will foot the bill. i do not think that the one who is afraid to play is courageous. i think a courageous person is one is willing to take a risk. why not buy gas on the ukrainian-russian border? an excellent example! we have discussed this, but who are the contractors on the eu side? they are private companies who are afraid because they do not have control over the gas coming in. there obviously should be a solution but that would require the willingness of ukraine to give up a stake in the pipeline. as you know, their parliament prohibits that and they are not ready to do it. european companies should take a certain role, and there is nothing that can be done in a matter of weeks or even months. so we need to step up the pressure. but today, for example, we said that legal action must follow here. i think this is important on both sides. i do not want to repeat myself and again take longer than i should. i want to thank you above all for your interest and your active attitude – from jacek saryusz-wolski, the ppe-de group, to all of you here. we need your help and your attention. we need your help in drawing attention to this issue to those in european countries where this is not a problem on the front pages. that is mostly in this part of europe, where there is no emergency situation. that would help us to speak with one voice in a more active way. last, but not least, i agree with most of you who were arguing for the need for a more strategic approach, the need for medium- and long-term solutions – this is exactly what the czech presidency is planning to do. we have the six months – and we have perhaps four months to work with you on it – but we are in complete agreement with the commission and member states to move the agenda forward in order to make this a key item for the march european council and, of course, also to organise in may the southern corridor summit in order to promote the diversification of the supplies such as the nabucco project and others.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will try to be as brief as possible. from the foreign policy point of view, there are many consequences and we started to look into these consequences in 2006 when we had the first wake-up call. the most important thing is what we can do together in the future. we have one problem and that is, of course, the treaty. in the treaty there is no common external security policy. in the lisbon treaty we will have a solidarity clause, which could then be used to give the better coordination that has been used and mentioned everywhere. secondly, for two years we have had energy diplomacy. quite a number of memoranda have been signed. we have been working on this but much is still theory or is in the preparation phase. it is very difficult to get all the actors together at once. we can normally only do the framework, for instance for nabucco. we tried then to get the volume of gas needed in order for nabucco to be supplied and built. there, i think that public-private partnerships are necessary. this is my second point. the third is, of course as we all know – and it has been said so often – that this gas conflict is a commercial one, but one that also has great political connotations. we also see the very poor state of russian-ukrainian relations, but our main goal has to be to stabilise the situation as much as possible. one of those possibilities will be our new eastern partnership idea where we will want the eastern partners to work together. on ukraine, we will be holding a joint international investment conference on the rehabilitation and modernisation of ukraine’s gas transit system at the end of march. i think this is a highly timely event. concerning the bilateral relationships – eu-russia or eu-ukraine – i think it is clear that the energy supply and transit aspects of the new agreements currently being negotiated have taken on a new importance and will be there. my final point is that we are not only looking towards the east, but also towards the south. we have already been working with many arab countries on initiatives to get gas, via turkey, hopefully to a nabucco pipeline. that means that diversification of pipelines, sources and, of course, of different energy – as has been said here – will be the way to go in the future. for this, we also need the right legal basis and this is difficult.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i will just say a couple of things. first of all, our task is to restore supplies immediately because people are suffering, industry is suffering, people are losing jobs; so that is the main task, not to create additional obstacles. but, after that, an analysis should take place, and measures should also be taken. we should revisit some of our stereotypes, because if 2006 could be called a wake-up call, this is a real shock. in reality we are underestimating what really happened. if two countries’ governments have accused each other of turning off the tap of the gas pipelines, then the only conclusion that i can draw – because i trust the countries and governments – is that somebody tampered with the pipelines, and that is very difficult to believe. so what has happened is really extraordinary and i believe it should have a huge impact on the energy policies that we are trying to create. that is why i believe that no issue should be taboo any more. we really should discuss how to guarantee security of supply under all possible conditions. and, to be honest, i never expected full disruption of supply. it was never in my expectations: it was a shock for me too. you can blame me as energy commissioner, and say ‘you should have foreseen this’. but it was never to be expected. it is something new that never has happened before and we should in future be prepared for such a type of measure.
in writing. the european union is again facing a natural gas supply crisis. it's not clear who the culprit is. russia, the ukraine? both of you? i ask the european commission to inform the public about the reasons that have led to this situation. the european union must take responsibility for saying who is really to blame. the crisis has shown that, unfortunately, many of the eu countries are vulnerable to energy blackmail and may suffer from political rather than economic disagreements between the countries of the former soviet union. it is clear that we need to accelerate the process of creating a common european energy policy, based also on a common external approach. we need to accelerate the process of diversifying natural gas supply sources and transport routes, and accelerating the nabucco project is essential. i think that a report by the energy commissioner is required on the actions taken or, more correctly, 'not taken' by the commission to support the nabucco project over the last year.
in writing. the gas crisis highlights two major problems facing the european union. we have no common energy strategy because there is no cohesion. now, the supply cuts have affected 11 of the 27 eu countries. but dependence on russian gas is a common security concern, given that the energy weapon can be used at any time, especially against former russian satellites. in these circumstances, the eu has a duty to find a solution to secure the energy supply of the new member states. the real problem for europe is diversifying gas sources, not transit routes between russia and the eu. secondly, the gas crisis shows the political weakness of a divided and hesitant european union. one of the obvious shortcomings is the eu presidency. there is a need, especially in times of crisis, for a representative voice to speak for the union. a chorus of voices risks casting aspersions on the idea of a united europe, not just its international image and influence. this is why we need a european presidency for a longer period and independence from the political structures of the member states.
in writing. – another wake-up call. the current gas crisis shows once more how weak and ineffective our eu energy policy is. when under big pressure eu national governments rely, basically, on their own resources and sources. this is not surprising under the circumstances, but it shows another facet of lack of eu solidarity. this crisis also highlights what is a must for future steps in eu energy policy if we wish to have one, in reality. as for oil stocks we should develop gas storage. we need to diversify gas suppliers, supply routes and delivery mechanisms (as in the case of liquefied natural gas). the construction of the nabucco project should be speeded up and the money for this project should be enhanced by involving the eib in its funding. the argument that not enough gas would be available were new transport routes to be developed does not stand scrutiny. we need to develop renewable energy resources at a faster pace and save energy. last, but not least, we need to develop cross-border energy interconnectors, so that eu member states can help each other if need arises.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen,the energy sector is a major economic and geopolitical factor; today almost half of the eu's energy is imported, and forecasts show that imports could reach 70% for natural gas and 100% for oil by 2030. these must be the main reasons for the urgent need to establish a common energy policy. they must base the implementation of the common energy policy on three pillars: the interconnection of national networks throughout the union, the diversification of sources of supply and active energy saving measures. the eu's energy policy is based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle, which is the basis for the eu's energy policy. can gas be stolen from a network like a wallet from a pocket? can the gas be stopped in a few minutes without notifying the user? i think that before we look at the non-compliance with international treaties and agreements and the fact that the supplier, which receives most of its revenues from gas exports, treats europeans who pay conscientiously for this gas with "coldness" and disinterestedness, we must look at the solutions for the eu's energy security.
in writing. 'the current crisis has once again demonstrated that the main problem is the energy dependence on the resources located in the russian federation and the use by the russian federation of this situation in a manner outside normal international procedures. the statements by the president of the european commission and the president of the council during the crisis in georgia on a change in the eu's relationship with russia need to be implemented. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is needed to create a common european energy policy. we must start building the nabbucco pipeline without delay. it is imperative to promote energy projects that exploit the black sea area and use the energy sources of the caspian sea area. the eastern enlargement of the european energy community and the priority inclusion of energy in the new framework created by the eastern partnership can also help to resolve the current situation. "
in writing. the issue of russian gas supplies to ukraine and the european union must be resolved as soon as possible. the european union needs a policy of energy security, diversification of resources and solidarity in the energy sector to prevent such crises affecting its citizens. more than half of the eu member states are affected by the russian gas supply cut. in bulgaria, gas supplies to industry have been reduced or cut off, as the country is 90% dependent on gas from russia. i support both the presidency and the commission's position to encourage both sides to dialogue in order to reach a compromise. without technical coordination between the two parties, the gas supply cannot be carried out. in the future, we must keep the dialogue open with both sides to avoid such situations. the council and parliament, through the energy package under discussion, are proposing a series of measures involving the existence of several energy suppliers for the benefit of the consumer, a package which we hope will be adopted at second reading. this crisis must be resolved as soon as possible as it affects both european citizens and european industry; we need a common external energy policy.
president-in-office of the council. − i think on the cap reform we were among those who were trying to push the commission to come forward with the new budgetary reform proposals, the white paper. i was even trying to orchestrate some kind of a joint effort with my colleague from sweden, because 2009 is the year of the czech and the swedish presidencies and we have pretty similar views. but it is not up to us to bring a legislative proposal. i say to my friend bernd posselt, we come from similar cultural backgrounds, but i think you know we are both living examples that there is no hunger in europe thanks simply to the fact that trade in agricultural products has been growing in the past couple of decades. i know that we also need some tasty products to keep on the market like bavarian and czech beer, but i think in general, again, free trade promotes wealth in europe as well as in the world. here is the question on the cap. the council recalls that, in the context of the political agreement reached on the cap health check in the council on 20 november last year, it was agreed in the joint council and commission declaration that, in the framework of the discussions that started in annecy in france on 23 september on the future of cap after 2013 and without prejudice to the new financial perspective for that period, the council and the commission are committed to closely examining the possibilities for the development of direct payments in the community and addressing the different levels of direct payment between the member states. i can tell you that the incoming czech presidency intends to organise the discussion of this issue at the informal agricultural ministers’ meeting to be held in brno in may. my colleague from the government, petr gandalovič, is really eager to open this debate. our goal is to moderate a discussion on the future of the cap aimed at exploring agrarian policy instruments, particularly in the area of direct payments, which would enable a non-discriminatory and effective use of financial resources gathered from european taxpayers and spent on the cap, strengthening the competitiveness of european farmers, improving the position of europe’s agricultural and food industries in a globalised and open world market, improving the quality of agricultural products and the provision of non-marketable outcomes of agriculture, as well as contributing to sustainable rural development. the outcome of the abovementioned dialogue should result in paving the way towards – i would like to emphasise – the modernised cap providing equal conditions for all member states.
president-in-office of the council. − the problem of disadvantaged areas throughout europe is one of the particular problems which are constantly being discussed in relation to the cap. i think that we are all, or mostly all, in agreement that we should move from direct payment to a payment for developing rural areas, if there is some kind of redistribution, rather than to continue with protectionist measures. so there are the ways and means, and certainly we are working closely with commissioner fischer boel. i am not an expert on agriculture but i think you certainly would have the opportunity to also approach our minister for agriculture and discuss this in detail.
the economic crisis, unfortunately, leads to job losses. purchasing power is dropping. but quality of life also means healthy eating. there are many farmers in romania, but the farms are small. i would like to ask what support you have in mind for small farmers, especially for the new member states.
i would first like to welcome the fact that my colleagues are on a mission to inform people in one of the most dangerous and, certainly, most deprived regions of the world. and i think the horn of africa is probably the poorest place in the world. ethiopia has suffered a catastrophe from recent droughts in a country where millions of people suffer from hunger even in years of bountiful harvests. the sudan and particularly the darfur region are also tragic places on the world map in terms of the humanitarian catastrophe, which many experts have described as a veritable genocide, with over two million people massacred, while another four million are refugees from the civil war. somalia, eritrea and djibouti are among the poorest countries, where conflict is a permanent reality, as you, commissioner, and my colleagues before you have pointed out. the constant instability of the region is one of the causes of the difficulties that the horn of africa faces in the process of economic, social and political development. the success of the peace process in the region is closely linked to the participation of regional and african structures such as the intergovernmental authority on development or the african union. the european union must support the strengthening of these organisations and their capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts. better regional integration would also allow for a more open dialogue between countries in the horn of africa on issues of common concern such as migration, arms trafficking, energy or natural resources, and would provide a basis for dialogues on divergent themes. of course, the european union must do more to address human rights violations. under the cotonou agreement, these countries must reach an agreement with the european union on respect for the rule of law, human rights and democratic principles.
the european union has every reason to be concerned about the situation in somalia, where a power vacuum has been created which is likely to be filled by somali islamist militias. in addition to the withdrawal of the 3,000 ethiopian troops, the african union-led missions could also withdraw if they do not receive additional support in the coming period. i can only describe the european patrol mission in the area as a success, but this is only about treating the effects of the disease, not the disease itself. somalia must have a government that can be a partner in dialogue with the international institutions, with the european union, with all the other states that are willing to play an active role in stabilising the area.
the european union has multiple responsibilities in somalia and the horn of africa. instability, lack of governance, and insecurity have made this region a source of concern for a number of reasons. first of all, the unprecedented growth in acts of piracy by groups sheltered in somali ports is affecting trade routes in a region that is vital to european and global economic exchanges. we note with concern that these groups are becoming more technologically sophisticated and capable of attacking ships at greater and greater distances from shore. obviously, this is due to the desperate situation in somalia, in this case the lack of a central government capable of controlling its territorial waters. but equally, the international community has a responsibility in relation to these events. piracy, no matter what seas it takes place in and what safe havens it enjoys, violates the written and unwritten laws of every country and an intervention against it is justified no matter which direction it comes from. the chances of the european union and the international community fundamentally changing the reality in somalia are slim. but let's fight one of its effects - piracy. it's much more accessible.
i welcome the statement of the council and the commission and agree that the authoritarian regime of lukashenko must be closely monitored. at the same time, i believe that we need a long-term vision that looks to a post-lukashenko, democratic and prosperous belarus. the european union must implement a smart strategy for the people and society of belarus, not just for the caretaker government in minsk. history has proven that isolation and external sanctions favor the maintenance of dictatorships. on the contrary, we must give belarusians as many opportunities as possible to study in the european union, to travel and work on short notice, to come into contact with european values and our economic and cultural products. only then will we open people's appetite for our values and facilitate the transition process that this country will go through. in conclusion, i would like to tell mr. fiore that the appearance of the candidates on television during the election campaign means nothing because, as stalin said, it only matters who counts the votes.
i have before me three motions for resolutions, the one on 21 may, the one on 9 october and the one on 7 january. there is a development in the declarations of the members of the european union. however, i consider and support any statement that can bring more democracy to any state, especially when we are talking about a neighboring state, belarus. i think that we must, or we could, do two very important things to promote mutual trust and transparency, as my colleagues have said before me: to show our maturity and to make it easier for the citizens of the state of belarus to be able to come to the european union and get in touch with the values of the european union, with what the european union means, with the policy of the european union, with everything that we represent, and secondly - certainly, a very simple gesture that president lukashenko could make - namely, that belarus should become a state without political prisoners in the shortest possible time.
the srebrenica massacre in july 1995, together with all the atrocities committed in the war that accompanied the break-up of the former yugoslavia, represents a dark page in european history. it is a tragic lesson of history, from which we can once again understand the need to develop the capacity for effective action in the european union, in its external security and defence policy, and especially in the european neighbourhood policy. why would you do that? it is precisely to combat phenomena such as the violation of human rights and the principles of international law, regional conflicts, nationalist extremism and ethnic separatism, which made the atrocities in bosnia possible. europe needs a stronger and wider european union whose preventive policy will not allow such atrocities to happen again.
animal testing is an important step in biological and medical research. however, in this work, particular attention must be paid to the care of animals used for scientific or other experimental purposes, and the european union must set an example in the care and housing of these animals. the european commission directive 86/609 is more than 20 years old and regulates these matters only in an approximate and permissive manner. in this period, statistics show that some 235 million animals have been used in experiments across europe and over 12 million are slaughtered annually in european union laboratories. care is a complex set of material and other conditions that man is obliged to provide for the animals used. trade in animals, transport, surgery, slaughter, the taking of an animal's life, all must be done in strict compliance with international and national provisions relating to the species, category of animals and circumstances, in order to avoid, as far as possible, their physical and psychological suffering. care must be taken (the speaker was interrupted)
the new member states, and i shall refer specifically to my country, romania, need, as has already been said here, support to strengthen the capacity of the authorities responsible for monitoring the application of the regulation on the transport of animals which we are discussing today. from this point of view, it is still very difficult for the veterinary authorities in romania to control the transport of animals without calling the police, as the only competent authority can stop the means of transport in traffic. the second thing specific to romania is the maintenance of transhumanism, obviously on a much smaller scale, as a phenomenon that should be treated, in my opinion, separately from the subject itself and conserved as much as possible. the third and last thing i want to talk about is the concern we should have about the capacity of the inspections and the reports that we're discussing. (speaker was interrupted)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs véronique mathieu on the budgetary control of community funds in afghanistan. it is a wise and significant report, as the success of the financial, political, civil and military efforts to stabilise afghanistan is of particular importance to the eu and to the entire democratic world. romania is contributing to these international efforts in afghanistan with 721 soldiers in the isaf mission (under the nato umbrella) and 57 soldiers in the enduring freedom operation (coalition-type mission). in these missions, several romanian soldiers were killed or wounded, bringing sadness to their families and to romanian society. we hope that their sacrifice will not be in vain and that the financial, military and human contribution of the romanians to the european and international effort will lead to a lasting stabilization of afghanistan and the elimination of the foci of terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the commission must increase the resources allocated to the fight against drug trafficking. the eu's 2004-2007 aid consists of direct and indirect aid. between 2002 and 2007, direct community aid accounted for 70% (eur 970 million) of total community aid, and indirect community aid, managed by international organisations, accounted for 30% of community aid (eur 422 million). however, it is necessary to recognise the lack of international coordination between donor countries, which also exists between the various member states of the union and the european commission, where it could play a unifying role. this results in a much lower cost-effectiveness than it should be and the belief that the afghan population could have benefited much more from the international and eu funds allocated to the country.
in writing. − the european union is one of the main donors to afghanistan, helping to stabilise and increase security in the area, with visible effects such as increasing life expectancy. the eu must continue to support afghanistan, but it cannot ignore the faulty spending of money from the eu budget, which is ultimately the pocket of the taxpayer. i therefore consider this report to be a welcome tool to make the allocation of eu assistance to afghanistan more efficient and to maximise the financial impact of the funds. in this respect, the coordination and control of development assistance funds to afghanistan are three essential elements to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of this money. the proposed report summarises a number of problems in the allocation of eu funds to afghanistan and proposes a number of workable recommendations. i support this report and hope that it will be followed by the implementation of a series of concrete measures to increase the impact of the use of eu funds and to ensure better control over their spending. given the economic situation in most of our countries, i believe that it is the duty of the ep, as the budgetary authority of the union, to ensure maximum efficiency in the use of public money.
in writing. − in the current economic crisis, women are among those most affected by unemployment or wage cuts. we need at european level member states to implement the provisions of directive 2002/73/ec and the european commission to monitor these actions and to regularly inform the european parliament. as mrs madurell's report shows, one of the major problems in combating gender discrimination in the labour market is also the lack of information on the rights of victims of discrimination. here, responsibility is shared equally between member states, european institutions - such as the european institute for gender equality - and employers. civil society organisations also have an important role to play, and through information campaigns and monitoring reports, they can fill the gap in action at national or european level. the commission has a duty to ensure that member states take measures to reconcile family and working life, reduce the gender pay gap and increase women's access to management positions. in romania, it was european-level regulations that helped us to put in place an institutional system that ensures that 'human rights are also women's rights'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment, training and promotion, and working conditions. although gender equality is a fundamental right in the european union, official statistics show that there are still differences in employment rates, especially in countries that have recently joined the european union. given that equal treatment of women and men is still a structural issue, the lisbon european council of march 2000 set the european union the objective of raising the employment rate of women to above 60% by 2010, a target which needs to be closely monitored in the new member states. i believe it is essential to implement the european directive to ensure the elimination of discrimination against women in the labour market, as further efforts are needed to change attitudes towards this issue, especially in rural areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the report's request to the commission to closely monitor the transposition of directive 2002/73/ec and compliance with the legislation adopted as a result of the implementation process is legitimate and necessary. by adopting this report, the european parliament has provided member states with a useful tool for strengthening their national legislation on equal treatment between men and women in the labour market. however, according to the statistics provided, there is a difference of 28.4% between the employment rate of men and women, indicating that gender inequality in the labour market is still a problem that needs to be addressed. i therefore believe that member states must make every effort to implement strategies to promote gender equality.
in writing. − this resolution succeeds in rallying the main political forces in the european parliament around a statement that is badly needed given the current humanitarian and security situation in the middle east. regardless of the developments that led to its initiation, this conflict is already having a significant negative impact on the civilians in the area and the united nations presence in gaza. like my colleagues, i believe we are at the point where sustainable results can only be achieved through dialogue, and that only a ceasefire can achieve that. in addition, romania's consistent position on this issue is convincingly reflected in this document. i am pleased to have the opportunity to vote for a document which expresses both the view of the european political family to which i belong and that of my country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the gaza strip calling for an immediate ceasefire in the area. i believe that, whatever the positions of the parties to the conflict, dialogue is the only way to resolve any problems for the common good.
in writing. − the chances of the eu and the international community fundamentally changing the reality in somalia are slim. but to combat one of its effects, piracy, is much more within our reach. we must not forget that piracy is, for groups in southern and central somalia, primarily a means of generating revenue. this revenue is in turn used to fuel conflicts within the country and the region. a stronger naval presence in the region can have a positive impact on the security environment in somalia and, consequently, in the region. the eu must therefore support elements of the moderate somali leadership that are firmly committed to stability and peace in the region. the fight against piracy is a tool at the disposal of the european union, which has the necessary military capabilities and which contributes not only to the restoration of the security of a vital transit route but also, indirectly, to regional stability and peace.
in writing. − the resolution continues a constant and productive dialogue with the government in minsk and expresses the concern of the european parliament and the citizens it represents for the human rights situation and for the general developments in belarus. the belarusian authorities have made some welcome progress, but we hope that it will be the beginning of a process of democratization, and not just a temporary cosmetization. this resolution is firm enough, but also nuanced enough, to express both our satisfaction with the former and our concern about the latter. current events in the region once again demonstrate the importance of transparency in governance and democratic accountability of governments to the citizens they represent. the democratic values that are assumed are linked to the stability and development of both societies and markets, including energy. this resolution is a step forward in reaffirming these values.
in writing. - i voted for the eu resolution on belarus because i believe that any step that can bring more democracy to any country in the world is a positive one. the democratization of belarus will contribute to the respect of the rights and freedoms of citizens in this country. this resolution is welcome, because i hope that this will make it easier for as many belarusian citizens as possible to obtain visas to the eu countries, to get to know our values and traditions, and also in the hope that there will soon be no more political prisoners or people under house arrest in belarus.
iran represents perhaps the least documented case of human rights violation in the international community. at this time, there are no signs of improvement. the persecution of ms. shirin ebadi is a very serious case in this regard, and the same can be said about the situation of the 6 students, which was mentioned earlier. it is gratifying that several resolutions have been proposed on this subject, initiated by several political groups. but we believe that the european people's party's is much more in keeping with our duty to defend human rights. as a citizen of a country that has recently experienced both totalitarianism and freedom of expression guaranteed by a democratic regime, i can only sympathize with the cause of a human rights activist and i am sure that this will be taken into account. this constructive criticism can only help relations between the european union and iran.
in writing. kenyan democracy suffered a blow to press freedom in early 2009. president mwai kibaki signed, after a change of heart, a law giving kenyan authorities the right to raid newsrooms, listen to journalists' phone calls and control the content of broadcasts on the grounds of "national security". as if these abuses were not enough, the law also provides for huge fines and jail terms for reporters found guilty of "anti-government" practices. although president kibaki ordered the amendment of these provisions a week later, it is not known what these "amendments" are. the law, in its original form, is reminiscent of the dark days of the dictatorship, when the kenyan press was on its knees. kenya is now a democracy, and i am convinced that no one, including president kibaki, wants to go back to those days. an attack on freedom of the press is an attack on democracy. the international community must continue to put pressure on the kenyan authorities to treat civil liberties responsibly and especially press freedom.
in the minority intergroup, we have developed a report to protect traditional national minorities. why is that important? many of the newly joined countries, such as romania, do not have minority laws. last year, we witnessed how uniformed police beat civilians in slovakia. in romania, since the new government took office, we have noticed that the symbols of minorities are being removed, that the problem is that if someone speaks several languages, that hundreds of children are accidentally left out of school. that is why we think it is important that a report, a resolution, be adopted by the european parliament guaranteeing the protection of minorities, the protection of traditional national minorities. thank you very much, mr. president.
the documents of the meeting in prague on 5 february provide for a debate on the barcelona objectives on public childcare services, with an emphasis on home care. i wonder if the czech presidency is aware of the european commission report of october 2008 which states that over 6 million women aged 25-49 say they are forced not to work or can only work part time because of family responsibilities. home care shouldn't be at the expense of public services. as a social democrat, i believe that investing in public childcare is good for society as a whole. i ask the czech presidency to consider how member states can be helped to improve the quantity and quality of public childcare services, especially in the current context of the crisis.
the european commission has designated 2009 as the european year of creativity and innovation. creative thinking is the key to success in a global economy, as the european union has long recognised, and innovation is an integral part of both the commission's climate change package and the plan to revitalise the european economy. the european parliament, in turn, must be actively involved in promoting creativity as an engine of innovation. last year, the climate change-energy package was adopted and the written declaration on fibromyalgia was approved, for which i thank you again. these documents are opening the door to innovation and creativity in areas of utmost importance, such as health, by identifying new treatments for fibromyalgia and energy, by making new alternative energy efficient.
in the current european context, ensuring energy security is becoming a priority. diversification of energy routes can be ensured by interconnecting european gas networks, which also contributes to solidarity between member states, a fundamental principle in the european union. in addition to romania and hungary's own financial efforts, the european commission last week proposed €30 million for the completion of the arad-szeget gas pipeline project, whose funding has been suspended for more than five years. the importance of this project is major. the pipeline will link romania to hungary, but it will also connect to the european union's gas network. once the pipeline is completed, both under normal conditions and in situations of energy crisis at european level, romania will be able to export its gas to the european market, but also to import these resources. i would therefore ask for your support to ensure that the commission's proposal is implemented as quickly as possible.
the european union is preparing intensively to negotiate a post-kyoto agreement to continue reducing the causes of climate change. member states must gradually reduce their carbon dioxide emissions. european companies urgently need to invest in upgrading production facilities in energy-intensive sectors to maintain production levels, to preserve jobs and to protect the environment. i would point out that, in the context of the economic crisis, european companies are unable to obtain the loans they so badly need for modernisation. european businesses must not produce less, but smarter and greener. i call on the european commission, the european investment bank and the member states to give priority to the development of the union's sustainable economy and to ensure, through the european economic recovery plan, the conditions necessary for european businesses to modernise and remain competitive in an increasingly tough market.
thank you very much, madam president. the challenge for the european union is to guarantee stability and security, to improve the well-being of its citizens and to build a common european future. historical, national and ethnic minorities are enduring values of a diverse europe. respect for these rights is not yet settled in a satisfactory manner. the existence of documents such as the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages gives us reason for confidence. it is clear that until all eu member states have ratified these documents, further efforts are needed. parliament should aim to create a binding framework measure to ensure the protection of national minority communities, recognising that the various forms of autonomy and self-determination, based on the principle of subsidiarity, represent a reassuring solution to the situation of minority communities. thank you very much.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you for your answers to the oral questions. i would like to stress that the textile sector, as we know, makes a particularly important contribution to the gdp of all the member states and, if you like, also of romania. we know that this sector creates new jobs, especially for women. i agree with and support the measures you propose because, knowing how important trade is in the current crisis, we must know how important the measures we have to take to protect jobs are. given that at the end of last year the system of double surveillance of chinese textile imports was abolished, which i understand was an important tool in monitoring the market, i would like to suggest to the commission that it should give greater importance to this textile sector and to other sensitive industrial sectors such as steel, chemicals and machinery, and i would like to suggest to the european commission that it should regularly present impact studies, statistical data or other elements, relevant instruments on these sectors. i would like to welcome once again the measures you have proposed on access, free trade, funds, the environment.
energy policy is and will continue to be a priority for the union. the gas crisis this winter, in a period of very cold temperatures, has once again shown the dependence of the member states and the european union on traditional gas suppliers. united in diversity is the motto of the european union. i hope that this gas crisis will lead us to unite in the construction of a common energy policy. the development of the nabucco project and the construction of an lpg terminal at constanta, an important black sea port, as well as the interconnection of national electricity infrastructures, can contribute both to increasing the security of energy supply and to developing the union's capacity to show solidarity with member states in energy crisis. i call on the commission and the member states to invest in modernising the european energy network and in increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy production. i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that measures to reduce pollution from coal-fired power stations are financed. the economic crisis is forcing member states to define their priorities and strategic development directions more carefully. in the field of energy efficiency, the union can deliver rapid and cost-effective results in the fight against climate change. increasing the energy performance of existing buildings and promoting passive buildings, as well as using communications and information technology to reduce energy consumption and increase energy efficiency through the widespread deployment of smart meters and automated systems, are strategic development directions in which europe needs to invest. i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that measures to reduce pollution from coal-fired power stations are financed. the economic crisis is forcing member states to define their priorities and strategic development directions more carefully. by 2020, the union must increase its energy efficiency by 35% and reduce its primary energy consumption by 20%. i call on the commission and the member states to promote and finance research projects aimed at improving energy efficiency. commissioner, i call on the european commission, the european investment bank and the member states to set up a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to mobilise public and private capital for the implementation of energy efficiency projects implemented this time across the european union. last but not least, i would like to mention the transport sector, which is the main sector in which oil is used. the adoption of very ambitious medium- and even long-term targets for 2020 on the energy efficiency of vehicles is, i believe, necessary today at european level. i also encourage member states to develop smart transport policies for goods and people, especially in urban areas. last but not least, smart transport is one of the strategic directions for transport development.
i would like to stress the need for an external energy policy of the european union, so that the 27 member states can speak with one voice in negotiations with the major producers. only in this way can the european union obtain affordable prices for gas and oil imports, while guaranteeing energy security. diversification of energy sources must be a major objective of the european union. however, i would point out that the russian south stream project does not contribute to this diversification at all, since the source of supply remains the same, russia. moreover, the enormous costs of building the pipeline would raise the price of gas, which european consumers would be forced to pay. i therefore believe that the european union must act urgently to include in future agreements with russia and ukraine comprehensive energy interdependence clauses, clauses which set out very clear obligations and effective mechanisms for the rapid resolution of any problems. the eu-russia strategic partnership and the new eastern partnership should aim at achieving ...
madam president, the two important documents we are discussing today – the commission’s plan of action and the report on it – are separated in time by the recent interruption of gas due to the usual winter quarrel between russia and ukraine. consequently, the report is more attuned to reality, trying to increase our internal solidarity and expedite the implementation of the plan in front of us, thus capitalising on the lessons of the last crisis. personally, apart from support for the diversification of transport routes for the import of gas, i consider the appeal to expedite the achievement of internal market energy in the current legislature and the necessity to revisit the entire problem of gas storage as major contributions of the report. however, the recommendation to fully open the nabucco project to russia is questionable since everyone knows that nabucco was conceived as an alternative to russian gas and that, consequently, russia is already doing everything possible to kill it.
the gas crisis we've been facing has manifested itself between ukraine and russia but unfortunately it has affected some of the states of the european union. this crisis has once again demonstrated that the european union is highly dependent on a single gas supply pole. i therefore believe that developing partnerships with russia is beneficial for the whole european union, but at the same time i believe that the european union must immediately start projects to find alternative solutions, precisely in order to prevent the consequences of crises that may occur in the near or distant future. in the same vein, i think we should consider the two projects, nabucco and south stream, as well as other solutions, and here i am referring to the deposits that are at the level of the north sea and those that are supposed to be on the continental shelf of the black sea. since, in time, deposits of all kinds will be exhausted, i believe that we must invest in scientific projects capable of discovering alternative sources of energy, thus ensuring the development of future generations.
the recent gas crisis has brought even more acute attention to the importance of developing alternative energy routes and sources through the development of transport infrastructure and interconnections. in this context, it is necessary to accelerate the nabucco project, which has the potential to contribute to the european union's objectives of diversifying routes, but especially sources of supply from third countries. it is necessary to promote transit with neighbouring countries by completing the projects to interconnect romania with hungary and bulgaria. at the same time, i believe that the south stream project cannot be considered to be in the european interest precisely because it does not use an alternative source, as required by the strategic analysis in the report. but we also have our own energy sources. a micro-hydroelectric plant is not profitable, it is not efficient, but hundreds of thousands of hydroelectric plants from the alps to the carpathians, from the balkans to the tatra or the pyrenees, means energy independence.
in writing. solidarity between the member states of the european union in the field of energy must become a primary objective at european, regional and bilateral levels, and the strategies adopted by each member state at national level must not affect the energy interests of other member states and must correspond to the general interest of the european union in energy security. in this context, the improvement of the community legislative framework on energy interdependence within the eu and the development of a new generation of normative acts aimed at regulating both the european union's relations with non-eu energy suppliers and transit states must serve as an effective instrument in the process of developing european security policy. the new laws will have to provide for legal enforcement mechanisms designed to strengthen energy cooperation and develop viable competition in european energy markets. efforts to increase eu investment in diversifying cross-border structures, stimulating alternative, non-traditional, local energy production and improving infrastructure capacity to facilitate connection to new energy sources should be encouraged. the european union must also take very seriously the need to stimulate the private energy sector in the member states, which is already feeling the effects of the global economic crisis.
in writing. i thank mrs laperrouze for this report and support most of its conclusions. the eu must be ambitious in tackling climate change, and the role of nuclear and renewable energy cannot be overlooked. the process of creating a common market for electricity and natural gas must be accelerated. this requires interconnections; i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to allocate eur 1.5 billion for interconnection projects. in addition, the barcelona criteria for interconnections must be met by all member states. improvements in energy efficiency are also needed, especially in the new member states. in romania, for example, there is a huge potential for savings and i would like to see it exploited. the russia-ukraine crisis has once again shown the need for a common eu approach. support the conclusion of the report, including on the conclusion of an eu-russia-ukraine agreement. but i do not agree with the mention of south stream as a vital project for eu energy security on a par with nabucco. south stream is a competitor project to nabucco and does not fully meet the need to diversify energy supply sources in order to guarantee the eu's energy security. that is why i suggest that in future we pay more attention to the place given to this project in various ep documents.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,today we are discussing in the european parliament one of the most important reports under debate in this plenary session. we find in the report the key elements of the energy policy we want to implement at union level, the national emergency action plans, the energy security clause, the diversification of sources of supply and the maintenance of nuclear energy in the energy mix. all of this shows the flexibility and rapid adaptation of our policies and actions to current situations. i believe that the regulation of trade, association, partnership and cooperation agreements with producing and transit countries, which establish a code of conduct and the consequences of non-compliance with it, is the union's priority after the gas crisis at the beginning of the year. the diversification of energy supply sources, by establishing interconnections between member states, the development of new supply routes such as nabucco and the construction of lng terminals, should also become current projects financed by the commission. finally, i congratulate mrs laperrouze on her report and hope that it will be supported by the vast majority of our colleagues. thank you. thank you.
in writing. mrs laperrouze's report addresses a problem of particular importance to all european citizens, especially in the context of the gas crisis we have recently faced. we must all contribute to successfully implementing the ambitious objectives of this second strategic review of energy policy: sustainability, competitiveness and security of energy supply. i want to stress the importance of improving the security of energy resources. we need to take steps to diversify the sources of energy and the ways in which it is delivered. we need to support investment in infrastructure as well as in new energy-efficient technologies to successfully implement the 20-20-20 targets. now more than ever, member states must show solidarity and cooperate to secure energy supplies. this new strategy must also lay the foundations for eu economic growth. i would like to recall the geopolitical importance of romania and the black sea region for energy security and for diversifying energy supply resources.
in writing. i was shadow rapporteur on this report on ‘wilderness in europe’ and i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr gyula hegyi, on his work. i wish to outline two things here: first of all, we really need to proceed with the mapping of the last wilderness areas in europe. of course, this cannot be done without defining ‘wilderness’, therefore i urge the european commission to take action in this field. secondly, i wish to speak on the key issue of this report, namely human presence and tourism. human presence should not be excluded; on the contrary, people have to be introduced to the natural beauties of their country in order to preserve them better. we need to support sustainable tourism in these areas and teach the site managers how to preserve and protect the wilderness. therefore i join the request of the main ngos in the field and ask the european commission to give some guidelines for wilderness preservation in europe.
in writing. – wilderness can mean different things to different people. i personally perceive wilderness as areas undisturbed by human activities, where natural processes are dominant. so for me, promoting wilderness tourism is a mere contradiction of the term ‘wilderness’. on the other hand, i agree that sustainable tourism, if done properly, can provide an economic incentive for local communities to conserve the natural and cultural heritage. but the increase in demand for wilderness tourism puts pressure on the very same values that the tourists are seeking and can speed up the destruction of fragile ecosystems. a solution would be to open a limited part of wilderness areas to high-quality sustainable tourism, which does not adversely affect the conservation objectives of the sites. tourism activities should be allowed under strict conditions, such as a limited number of tourists per day, and on the basis of a solid sustainable tourism plan that supports conservation initiatives and promotes a responsible experience of wilderness. the tourism plans and the activities of the operators should be evaluated by means of thorough assessment mechanisms, especially designed for wilderness areas. the aim is to make tourists and operators aware that wilderness entails not only freedom but also responsibility.
in writing. natural wealth - and romania is one of the countries with a generous and varied fauna and flora - must be preserved for future generations. the european union must therefore increase its funds for the financing of actions to conserve natural areas. as such, the commission should allocate higher amounts through the rural development fund to environmental protection projects in the european agricultural sector, with the clear aim of financing actions to conserve natural spaces. on the other hand, the european commission should establish a set of clear rules for the financial support of projects by local communities in the vicinity of these spaces, which allow on the one hand the practice of civilized tourism in the areas concerned for preservation, and on the other hand the existence of economic benefits for the benefit of the local communities concerned. in addition, the commission should encourage crossborder cooperation between member states in cases where projects for the conservation of natural spaces are located in the territory of two or more states.
in writing. europe's biodiversity is the most precious legacy we leave to future generations. i welcome and support the report on the natural areas of europe. i would like to draw attention to the worrying state of the most biodiverse area in europe, the danube delta. the delta is under constant assault from poaching, illegal business interests and, not least, uncontrolled tourism. one of the most important sources of aggression taking place on the delta has its roots in the educational level of the populations in the delta, as well as the rural populations along the danube tributaries in romania. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the commission and the council to reflect rapidly on concrete measures on the basis of this report to: set up a working group on the situation in the danube delta, establish effective environmental education programmes for populations with a direct impact on biodiversity, establish standards for the protection of biodiversity. at the same time, the preservation of natural spaces in the european union, in particular the danube delta, is unrealizable in the absence of similar measures in the union's neighbouring countries. i therefore call on the commission and the council to intensify dialogue and concrete action in relations with these countries.
in writing. given that the commitments made in 2007 by adopting the resolution on biodiversity loss by 2010 will not be able to be achieved, the protection of natural spaces through promotion, development and financing becomes a priority in the context of climate change and the negative impact of tourism. the proposed creation of a system for mapping natural spaces in europe would help identify biodiversity and intact areas that will require increased attention and considerable effort by member states to protect them. information campaigns to raise public awareness of natural spaces, the implementation of high-quality sustainable tourism and the implementation of the birds and habitats directives are some of the tools that will help to protect these areas. in europe, there are already eight nature parks, including the retezat national park in romania, which is part of the pan network of protected areas. this network is responsible for the management of natural areas and brings together all national authorities and local tourism agencies involved in ensuring the sustainable development of tourism. the european commission should support this initiative and cooperate with this network to exchange information and effective practices.
in writing. gender discrimination is still a reality, unfortunately even in the member states of the european union. this is true not only in the private sector, where men make up nine-tenths of the board of directors of large companies, but also in the public sector, where women are also underrepresented. the lisbon strategy aims to integrate 60% of women who are able to work into the labour market. in addition, it should not be forgotten that one of the major challenges facing europe in the medium and long term is the demographic situation. the european union is experiencing a higher average ageing of its population than other regions of the world, and a population growth of only 0.4%, which means that the european union will have to cope with both a shrinking and an ageing working-age population. it is therefore necessary that the choice between career and raising a family is neither final nor binding, and that these two aspects of life can be balanced.
in writing. one of the key values of the european union is the elimination of all forms of discrimination. in addition to eliminating discrimination, including between men and women, we have a responsibility to put in place proactive measures to stimulate women's working lives. one area where women are severely underrepresented is in the field of scientific research. moreover, it is not only a question of numerical underrepresentation, but also of hierarchical underrepresentation: as the hierarchy level rises, the proportion of women decreases. society is thus depriving a significant part of the population of their creative potential. the ultra-competitive nature of research, the geographical mobility inherent in scientific work, and the stabilisation of careers at a relatively advanced age make it difficult to reconcile this activity with family life. i take advantage of this debate to highlight the need for specific policies to achieve gender parity in academic life. these policies should take into account a set of good practices at european level, such as facilitating dual careers, encouraging universities and research institutes to invest in childcare centres, and increasing access to academic posts for women.
in writing. at a time when europe is facing a major economic crisis, the final dimensions of which are difficult to estimate, it is expected that the negative effects of labour market movements will be felt by the birth rate, with many women tending not to have a child, afraid of losing their jobs and of the decrease in the material resources needed to care for and educate them. in this context, it is the duty of each member state to promote multi-generational activities, such as 'intergenerational centres', where older people are paid for childcare and education. these intergenerational centres, which are successfully operating in some member states, would allow women who have given birth to a child to return to work quickly and would also facilitate the reintegration of elderly pensioners into the labour market.
child sexual exploitation and child pornography are very serious crimes. although the legislation in many countries of the european union is quite strict, there are still many measures that need to be taken to ensure adequate protection for children. all member states should ratify the council of europe convention and fully implement the framework decision in order to have a unified approach at european union level. illegal child abuse material should be removed from the internet at source, websites should be blocked by providers and the review of the telecom legislation that we are now debating in the european parliament together with the council and the commission is a good opportunity to improve the legislation. sexual abusers should be banned from working with children and special centres for orphans should be more closely monitored by local authorities. finally, i believe that the european commission and the member states should provide financial and logistical support for campaigns targeting parents and children.
the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is a very serious and growing phenomenon that can be tackled through legislation, including awareness-raising campaigns. as a mother and as a representative of a country that is the leader in hosting pornographic websites, i believe that the member states of the union need clear laws to ban child pornography on the internet and to oblige internet service providers to block public access to websites that post such images. as access to and dissemination of pornographic material is not subject to time and place, i consider it appropriate to set up a separate unit at european level to combat child pornography and prostitution and i propose that the member states and the commission provide financial support for information and awareness-raising campaigns.
in writing. one of the characteristics of child sexual abuse is the rapid growth of the phenomenon via the internet, which makes it increasingly difficult to combat. the blocking of access to child pornography sites must become a legal obligation and the sexual exploitation of children on the internet must be considered a criminal offence. we need to be much more aware of the risk that new technologies will be used by paedophiles, as children increasingly use the internet. we can only worry about the generational gap in terms of internet use and, by implication, the control of children's access to high-risk websites. communication between school and family is very important in preparing children to identify risk situations and react, which is why special information and education programmes, a european strategy to combat sexual abuse and more intensive cooperation between member states are useful in setting up a transnational police network to combat child pornography and prostitution, including a database of perpetrators. from the perspective of european cooperation, the slowness with which the 2007 council of europe convention is being ratified is regrettable.
the current directive contributes to strengthening the common policy on illegal immigration and is a first step towards tackling illegal employment by imposing financial sanctions on employers. i would remind you, however, that all member states have national legislation on illegal work and tax evasion. enforcement of these laws also helps to detect the employment of illegal immigrants. that is why i think it is important to have adequate regulations but even more important that member states ensure that these regulations are strictly enforced. the final text welcomes the provisions on penalties proportionate to the number of illegal employees, and on the application of lower fines where the employer is a natural person and the employee provides personal services or domestic help and no abusive working conditions are found. the negotiations between the european parliament and the council have led to clarification of the notion of subcontractor that may be held liable and the amount of retroactive payments to be made by the employer. i am convinced that the application of the directive will improve the situation of respect for community preference in the recruitment of staff. i also believe that the application of this directive should be an additional reason for member states to remove restrictions on the labour market for european citizens, given that limiting the possibility of employing illegal immigrants will create new opportunities for recruiting their own union citizens.
i think this legislative initiative is welcome in a context where, at european union level, the labour force from third countries represents a far from negligible percentage and illegal immigration is a worrying phenomenon. i would stress the need to establish a legislative framework to define more clearly the sanctions against employers of immigrants from third countries without a residence permit in the european union, given that undeclared work is an alarming phenomenon at european level and the exploitation of immigrant labour is a reality. we also need to recognise that a number of employers are increasing their profits by employing undocumented immigrants, thereby avoiding social security payments or taxes to the state, and we need to ensure that this type of behaviour is punished as such. it is therefore mandatory for each state to take measures to combat undeclared work, to provide greater protection for immigrants and to organise regular inspections, especially in sectors of activity where illegal immigrants are allegedly employed. it is desirable that access to the european labour market be controlled and that the rights of immigrants be respected; the commission is therefore calling on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure more effective cooperation and to facilitate the exchange of information between the various national authorities involved.
black-collar work in the european union is concentrated in the areas of unskilled labour, construction, agriculture, cleaning, hotels and restaurants, sectors that use illegal labour to a worrying extent. especially in times of crisis, employers are tempted, to maintain their profits or simply to survive in the marketplace, to try to circumvent the law and resort to illegally employed workers. today's document is a step towards reducing the phenomenon of black labor which has so many negative implications in terms of tax and social. it is very good that we are sanctioning the illegal employment of third country nationals, but let us not forget that the same scourge affects our fellow citizens in the less developed countries of the european union. romanians also face numerous abuses by employers within the european union. as regards the text of the report, i think that more stringent sanctions against labour market intermediaries would be desirable.
in writing. neither the usefulness nor the timeliness of measures to sanction those who employ illegal immigrants can be questioned. the state i represent is less of a particular concern in this respect, because it is for the moment more of a transit state for illegal immigration. at the same time, we must be aware of the future risks to which we are exposed. as regards the report, i welcome the proposal to remove the percentage of compulsory checks that the commission wants to impose. this percentage is excessive and would only result in bureaucracy and huge public expenditure with no effect.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. as we know, between 4.5 and 8 million illegal immigrants work in the european union in sectors such as construction, agriculture, tourism. i welcome the fact that the directive provides for criminal sanctions against employers for repeated offences, the employment of a large number of persons in an irregular situation, if the employee is a victim of trafficking in human beings and the employer is aware of this, or if the employee is a minor. it is also necessary for member states to establish a mechanism to provide illegal immigrants with the possibility to lodge a complaint if they are, for example, victims of exploitative practices. we must take into account that illegal immigrants have left their countries of origin to provide their families with a better future. children are being left behind in increasing numbers - unsupervised, in the care of grandparents and neighbors, and in foster homes. if these children accompany their parents, we must give them the chance to have access to the education and social protection system of the european union, even if they are in an illegal situation.
in writing. the report by claudio fava is part of the package of measures to combat illegal immigration by discouraging their employment. unfortunately, the rapporteur has over-emphasised measures to punish employers and has advocated extending the rights of illegal immigrants. as it is very important to maintain a balance in the sanctions applicable to employers, i have tried to distinguish, through the amendments tabled, those provisions in the report which are too harsh in their sanctions against employers and which could have given rise to interpretations which would have led to abuses against them. at the same time, particular attention should be paid to the humanitarian situation of these migrants. it is therefore very important to encourage member states to apply criminal sanctions in serious cases such as where the employer knows that the employee is a victim of trafficking in human beings. in addition, the report's verification and notification obligations on employers have a real role in empowering them in this pressing issue that we are increasingly facing in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the niebler report because cooperation between the eu and the us in the field of science and technology is very necessary. the transatlantic agreement should encourage both the united states and the european community to gain mutual benefits from the scientific and technical advances made through research programmes. the agreement will allow the exchange of ideas and the transfer of know-how to the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. i would like to emphasize that the united states is a world leader in science and technology. it should be noted that the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, promotes participation in cooperation activities such as coordinated calls for proposals for joint projects, access to each other's programmes and activities. the principles of effective protection of intellectual property and fair sharing of intellectual property rights shall be promoted. the proposal also provides for missions of eu experts and officials, workshops, seminars and meetings to be organised in the european community and the united states. i hope that this agreement will also contribute to the success of the lisbon strategy for a europe of knowledge. with the creation of the european institute of technology, transatlantic cooperation in science and technology will gain new momentum.
in writing. − the extension of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the eu and the usa is, beyond doubt, a positive aspect for european research. the overwhelming vote shows just this. however, experience shows time and again that the most fruitful scientific collaborations are obtained when two researchers from two institutions collaborate on a commonly designed and jointly funded project. therefore, in order to bring more substance to the scientific cooperation with the us i call upon the commission to explicitly establish simple, project-oriented financing instruments of joint research grants between researchers in the us and the eu. the explicit inclusion in the agreement of fields such as biomedicine, nanotechnology and space research is welcomed. i would like to see included also other cutting edge fields, such as stem-cell research. the fact that there are justified ethical issues related to some research fields should be a drive to a common reflection on these aspects rather than a barrier to common scientific progress. due in particular to the european research council grants, the eu is increasingly attractive for american researchers. eu now has instruments to seek higher and longer term incoming scientist mobility and must act so that eu achieves a net brain-gain.
in writing. − the extension of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the united states is a confirmation of the need for mutually beneficial eu-us cooperation and exchange in all leading-edge areas of research and innovation. the inclusion of space and security in the agreement is an important step towards strengthening transatlantic relations, a priority objective of the epp-ed group. this cooperation should also take the form of civil-military collaboration in areas of common interest, including in pioneering areas such as new space technologies, nanotechnologies and defence research. i am confident that this collaboration will lead to improved outcomes for the activities carried out on the international space station, as well as in the sensitive field of communications satellites. i also think it is important to work with third countries, and in particular with russia, especially in projects such as gps-glonass-galileo. beneficial civil or military results achieved by one of the parties with civil application should benefit all stakeholders, because for citizens of the contemporary world safety and security are a primary concern, and the sharing of these achievements is not only a proof of mutual trust and partnership, but also a guarantee that these results will be used only for the benefit of humanity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision extending the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america, because i believe that any cooperation at the scientific level can lead to new discoveries, which in turn can support human development and evolution. given that the usa is one of the most important vectors of scientific research in the world, i believe that expanding scientific cooperation with the country will be beneficial for any eu country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the niebler report because cooperation between the eu and russia in the field of science and technology is necessary. the eu-russia agreement should stimulate both the european community and russia to gain mutual benefits from scientific and technical progress achieved through research programmes. the agreement will allow the exchange of ideas and the transfer of know-how to the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. i note that this agreement is based on similar principles to the one concluded between the eu and the usa in the same scientific and technological field. it should be noted that the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, promotes participation in cooperation activities such as 'coordinated calls for proposals for joint projects, access to each other's programmes and activities'. the principles of effective protection of intellectual property and fair sharing of intellectual property rights shall be promoted. the proposal also provides for missions of eu experts and officials, workshops, seminars and meetings to be organised in the european community and in russia. in the european year of creativity and innovation, we hope that this agreement will help to make the eu-russia strategic partnership more effective.
in writing. − the renewal of the partnership agreement for scientific and technological cooperation with russia is an important step in normalising and strengthening relations between the eu and the russian federation, beyond the tensions of the recent period. however, the normality of collaborative relations in these areas is not sufficient. the eu and russia must first find a way to strengthen partnership and cooperation in security policies and, above all, in energy security policy. the recent gas crisis has shown us the need to deal seriously and unitedly with the problem of the european union's dependence on its suppliers of resources. let us also not forget the crisis in georgia which, for a time, threatened the entire post-cold war european architecture. in the face of all the challenges of globalisation and the global crisis, russia is an important player that cannot be excluded or ignored from the negotiating table. but the russian federation must abide by these agreements as well as the normal international rules. i call on the ec and the czech presidency to find concrete ways of resolving these problems as soon as possible, for the benefit of both themselves and european citizens, as well as the partner third countries (ukraine, the republic of moldova).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report since i agree that we really need to proceed with the mapping of the last wilderness areas in europe. of course, this cannot be done without defining wilderness, therefore i urge the european commission to take action in this field. i also agree with the idea that we should promote sustainable tourism in these areas and teach site managers how to preserve and protect the wilderness. therefore i join the request of the main ngos in the field and ask the european commission to give some guidelines for wilderness preservation in europe.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that europe must protect its natural spaces and contribute to maintaining the national parks it has. according to the 'natural spaces in europe' report, there are 10 national parks in several parts of europe. maintaining and protecting national parks also means protecting the species of animals and birds that live in them. as some of these species are in danger of extinction, i believe that the european union should be actively involved in developing programmes to support the recovery of these species and the repopulation of certain areas where, unfortunately, certain animal and plant species have disappeared. in the same vein, i think we need to look more closely at deforestation in areas not declared national parks and develop concrete projects to replant deforested areas. i am in favour of any such project and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. − general and business aviation is a growing sector characterised by an increased degree of adaptability and flexibility, which is at odds with the rigidity of large airports in particular. for this reason, i support the recommendations of my colleague, mr queiró, concerning the consistent application of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity in this sector, on a case-by-case basis, provided that all safety and security requirements are met. i call on all member states to take into account all the recommendations of the commission and the rapporteur, particularly with regard to the efficiency and optimisation of airport capacity, not only for large airports but also for regional and local airports. moreover, as rapporteur on the single european sky ii package and the extension of easa's powers, i took account of the need for this segment of the aviation sector to benefit from all the conditions it needs to ensure its sustainable development, both for the benefit of the industry and, ultimately, for the benefit of passengers.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate mr harbour on the report he has produced, on the way in which it reflects the work of the imco commission. the adoption of this own-initiative report by mr harbour will stimulate innovation in research and development within the european union. we must take advantage of the advantage that a pre-market acquisition policy will bring. substantial opportunities for smes are seen in the area of public procurement, with pre-market procurement being more easily accessible than large-scale procurement. we need to take the example of the us and put more emphasis on the procurement of r & d services; we need to define a policy instrument favourable to pre-commercial procurement to boost the eu's innovation base. at present, companies that have developed a product or service for a public body are not able to reuse their findings for other potential customers, leading to financial barriers to the acquisition of competing solutions. pre-market procurement allows for the cost-effective development of innovative solutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs laperrouze's report on the strategic analysis of the eu energy situation, as it provides that the future eu energy policy should include emergency action plans, the implementation of projects on diversification of supply sources and new climate change objectives.
in writing. − the energy security of the european union is becoming more and more pressing, signalling the existence of a deep and unresolved problem. the recent gas crisis has demonstrated the absolute need for member states to act as one, at community level, and to show solidarity both in crisis situations and in the approach and implementation of mutually beneficial common solutions. romania is aware of both the risks and the advantages of its geostrategic position on the eu's eastern border, and for this reason it supports and promotes the construction of alternative energy transport routes, primarily the nabucco pipeline, but also supports the process of clarifying and strengthening partnership relations with russia, a major player on the international scene, and not only in this delicate sector of energy supply. in this regard, the rapporteur's recommendations on the southern europe corridor, in particular nabucco, the interconnection of gas and electricity networks on the north-south axis through south-eastern europe should be taken into account and implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that member states must 'criminalize all forms of sexual abuse of children', including 'grooming' children on the internet. persons convicted of sexual offences must be prevented from coming into contact with children by the nature of their work or through voluntary activities involving periodic contact with children. member states are required to ensure that applicants for certain child labour are subject to a criminal record check, including by laying down clear rules or guidelines for employers on their obligations in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the angelilli report because i believe that the protection of children's rights must be a priority for the eu and its member states. legislation against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography needs to be updated to take account of the development of new technologies, in particular the internet, as well as the use of new forms of manipulation and solicitation of children by paedophiles. i believe that the eu institutions and the member states should focus in particular on increasing the institutional capacity to combat these crimes. as crime is transnational, the eu must develop a transnational network to combat it. in this connection, i support the idea that europol should set up a specific unit to combat child pornography and prostitution, composed of experts specialised in specific issues. this unit shall cooperate effectively with the police authorities of the member states and third states competent in the matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs angelilli's report on the sexual exploitation of children because it concerns one of the most sordid anti-humanitarian acts which must be punished by measures taken by all the member states. in romania, knowledge of this phenomenon is still largely unknown, we have little data on its extent, so i believe that the adoption of the report will contribute to the expansion of information campaigns, attention and prevention of child sexual abuse, the expansion of the number and area of actions to detect sexually exploited minors, the provision of rehabilitation services and, subsequently, the periodic checks on their situation, as well as the improvement of the system of registration and monitoring of cases of child sexual exploitation. i also believe that trafficked children should benefit from specialised services in transit, assistance and rehabilitation centres in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for the angelilli report because we need swift and efficient action to tackle the causes, but above all the effects, of the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. our kids are getting more and more lonely because we're getting more and more busy. thus, they fall prey to dangerous temptations. the commitments of the ec, as voiced by commissioner barrot, guarantee that we will have an exemplary legal framework by march.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mrs roberta angelilli on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, with emphasis on the preventive measures to be taken into account by the member states when drawing up the legislative framework against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the report also raises an alarm about the weak implementation of the existing framework decision, but also of international instruments, in particular the council of europe convention for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, to which romania has been a party since 2007, and calls for the integration of new sexual offences. member states should encourage victims of sexual exploitation to address law enforcement and courts with jurisdiction in criminal and civil matters and should hold both legal representatives of minors and staff who come into direct contact with minors accountable and inform them of the dangers of manipulating and accessing children for sexual purposes on the internet. all these dangers can be limited by setting up national monitoring bodies and cooperating with internet service providers to block websites or materials targeting child pornography.
in writing. − child pornography is a sensitive subject which should be kept under constant review by european and national authorities. the european union's member states should punish harshly any kind of sexual abuse of children and any kind of harassment of children on the internet. the european parliament's decision to call on member states to commit themselves firmly to combating child sexual abuse is welcome, especially given the vulnerability of children using online chat rooms or forums to abuse. in this regard, effective cooperation between national authorities and internet service providers is essential in order to limit access of children to pornographic websites, but also to block access of children to websites that promote the possibility of committing sexual offences. it is recommended that national systems for the psychological rehabilitation of sexual offenders and victims of sexual abuse be set up. i would stress that each member state must keep a record of those who have sexually abused children and prevent their employment in childcare settings.
in writing. - in a civilized society, we must put the safety of our children above all else. sexual exploitation is a violation of the right of the child to care and protection. sexual exploitation leaves psychological and sometimes even physical scars on children, diminishing their hopes of living a dignified life. i would like to support the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, in her view that the 2004 framework decision should be updated. we welcome the decision to update the directive to increase the level of protection for children, especially in relation to the new threats posed by the internet and other new communication systems. member states must ensure that legislation is amended so that criminal websites are blocked. we must encourage cooperation between member states to stop crime in this area, to actively combat child pornography and other means of commercial sexual exploitation of minors. we need a comprehensive strategy at the international level, of both diplomatic and administrative cooperation to ensure that the law is applied for the benefit of children. we need to provide protection for victims of abuse. stop the sex tourism!
combating terrorism is the zero priority of contemporary society, yet in the name of this aspiration, mistakes have been made and controversial decisions have been made. the closure of guantanamo bay, a stain on the face of the civilized world over the past decade, is a just and momentous decision. it would be natural for this measure to be followed by the resolution by the united states of the situation of the persons currently in prison. but the european union and the united states have been and are champions of respect for human rights and respect for human dignity and must cooperate to right wrongs. i believe that before we raise the question of the admission of prisoners to europe, it is absolutely necessary to make available all the information relating to possible terrorist activities in which they have been involved or to their possible membership of a terrorist group. the information must be carefully checked and an objective assessment made of the possible repercussions of the prisoner's return to the state of residence. it is absolutely necessary to have an official request from the united states and i believe that the decision to take the prisoners to europe should be taken by the member states and those who take this decision should also bear in mind that they are taking these responsibilities on behalf of the european union. as for commissioner barrot's mention of romania, there have been unfounded accusations in the past. however, romania responded to all requests from the european institutions, received the cia commission and made all information available. the romanian parliament carried out an investigation and made the results available to interested parties. i think it's absolutely enough, i think for the completely unfounded accusations that have been brought, romania has given enough answers.
mr president, the eu has been asking for the closure of guantánamo for a long time. today that decision has been taken by the new us administration, and eu countries are expected to show solidarity by taking over those prisoners. however, some think that such solidarity should be demonstrated primarily by the countries mentioned before in the press as hosting secret cia detention centres. i would like to stress once more the fact that such allegations have not been supported by evidence, either when they were made or since then. that is also valid for mr mate, who failed to produce the evidence supporting his accusations in this very house. moreover, internal investigations have not supported the accusations either. exploiting people’s potential lack of memory that such evidence was not produced then does not make it evidence today. at the most, it is simply cynical manipulation for obscure purposes.
first of all, whatever the substance and the outcome of the discussions on the so-called cia prisons, i would like to welcome the concern of the members of the european parliament and of the european citizens for the rigorous respect of human rights, regardless of the context. torture is unacceptable and there are no exceptional circumstances that suspend this truth. i feel compelled to make some remarks, however, as long as the name of romania is still mentioned in this context. i remember that, until now, we have never been offered charges without evidence to back them up. the martin report is the best example of this approach; it contains as controversial as it is baseless allegations against romania. i would like to point out this precedent for the way the accusations against romania were formulated, because it can damage the image of other european states. i repeat, it is unacceptable that the names of member states, such as romania, should be freely circulated and supported in the context of this debate.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate. i believe it was very useful. if you had listened to the debate in the last council meeting during lunch, you would have seen a similar will to cope with the problem, but also an appreciation of the complexity of the problem we are discussing. it has a moral and political dimension, but also a security and legal dimension. we all agree that president obama’s decision to close guantánamo was an important and good one, which we all appreciate and which is applauded by practically all of you here. but now that we are discussing the consequences and what we can do to express solidarity – and our interest here is to act in transatlantic harmony – we of course see that the problem is a complex one. martin schulz has said that we cannot fight terrorism and at the same time get into a conflict over fundamental rights. he is perfectly right, but hartmut nassauer has said that there are two dimensions: one is the moral one and the other concerns security. he is also right, and that is exactly why the ministers of justice and home affairs have to discuss this as well. from the political perspective, it is not just a flexing of moral muscles, nor should we approach this problem just out of guilt. it is certainly more complex than that. graham watson spoke of the need to approach this with one voice. again, he is certainly right, but at the same time – because this also concerns the legal problem and the competence issue – we cannot force the member states to invite the detainees from guantánamo on demand. if you had to solve this problem by deciding to invite those detainees to your homes – imagine taking on the responsibility of the ministers of the interior – you would certainly think twice about how this problem is to be handled. i certainly do not think it should be approached by the council and the member states as an issue of horse-trading – not at all. it is not about washing ourselves but not getting wet. at the core of the problem is simply the fact that the decision to close guantánamo is, of course, the primary responsibility of the united states, the country which built the facility. but we have – and have to have – the goodwill to express solidarity and to be cooperative in solving the problem. there is also the tactical debate. should we offer this on a gold plate now, or should we wait until a request has been made? but if we do receive a request, we need to be prepared to react. therefore the council started to discuss this seriously on the second day after president obama’s decision. i do not think we can underestimate the security issue – as you have pointed out – as it is a simple fact that some of the inmates who were released re-engaged in terrorist activity, and it is a simple matter of fact that one man, mr said al-shihri, is now the deputy head of al-qa’ida in yemen. so the us has to start the serious work of clearing up who those people are, and we have to break with them. legally, i think we have to be aware that the decision on the admission of foreign nationals to eu member states is the national competence of the member states. this is one level. however, on a second level, there is the agreement that we should now work towards a european framework in which to embed the national decision. both the schengen and the dublin agreements call for a european approach because the security of all schengen members will be affected in some way by the decision of the individual member states. so there is an internal imperative for a coordinated approach. furthermore, the eu is looking into the possibility of assisting the us with the resettlement and rehabilitation of former detainees in third countries. some of you have raised the question of speed: can we act faster than we are doing now? i think we should be aware that the discussion has only just begun. it has only been one week. the questions that have to be addressed are really complex and will need some time, although president obama himself has requested a review of the prisoners’ files and has set a one-year deadline for the closure of guantánamo. one should not expect the council to be ready to fix all these complex problems in a matter of a few days. furthermore, it has to be kept in mind that the primary responsibility for the guantánamo rests with the us. although the member states express their readiness to work on a coordinated approach, the issue has a bilateral dimension as well as the multilateral one. a clear position of the respective member states on the resettlement of detainees is not yet known. the meeting of the justice and home affairs ministers which is to take place later this month will be very useful here. in the meantime, the anti-terrorist coordinator, gilles de kerchove, is also working on various option papers here. so that is my summary on guantánamo, which occupied most of the time. on the other issue of illegal detention, mr fava’s favourite issue, i will just repeat what has been said several times by my predecessors: the allegation concerned the involvement of national intelligence agencies; the supervision of those agencies is the responsibility of individual member states, and the council has no power here to act beyond what was done.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the commission broadly shares the views expressed by the president-in-office of the council, mr vondra. i would like to say, however, that we are at a turning point in this long debate. this is a fundamental turning point in the fight against terrorism: we must now try to engage in this fight with a restored moral authority for the entire western community, a fight in respect of fundamental values and fundamental rights. europe must also involve the entire international community in this desire to fight terrorism from now on, bearing in mind the fundamental values which are the very motives behind this fight. this is a crucial turning point and parliament's declaration is extremely useful in this respect because it presupposes a willingness on the part of all the member states to participate in this major change. it is true, however, that the united states has the primary responsibility. the united states must be prepared to verify the status of each detainee before making a formal request to us for transfer to a member state of the union. it is indeed the indispensable condition. the united states must make a clear and reasoned request on a case-by-case basis. this is absolutely essential. it is true that it is up to each member state to decide in the end whether or not to accept a former guantanamo detainee, but the debate has shown that consultation at european level is obviously very, very desirable. coordination will be beneficial in determining the legal status of former detainees. it will also be necessary to protect member states against diplomatic or other requests from the country of origin of such detainees. it will be necessary to reassure the member states, in particular - i am thinking of what mr nassauer told us - those who have a concern about public order and security. the coordinated european approach will also improve the bargaining power vis-à-vis the united states on access to documents and on the modalities of transfer, and we may then be able to add financial aid to facilitate this reception in certain member states. i say this in front of mr vondra: we will of course work closely with the czech presidency. we are in fact drafting with mr de kerchove the reflection paper which will serve as a basis for the discussion which will take place at the jha council on 26 february. and then, i can say here, we will probably take the opportunity of our visit to washington with mr langer, who is the president of the council of ministers of the interior, to raise with the american interlocutors all the questions surrounding these problems relating to and following the closure of guantánamo. we must now deal with this matter very seriously and prepare ourselves legally to respond to the american demand on a case-by-case basis. this must be done very, very seriously, while of course taking into account the desire for positive cooperation in this new fight against terrorism, which is in fact based on adherence to the true fundamental values that unite us and that must unite the entire world community. thank you, everybody.
in writing. us president barack obama's decision to close guantanamo bay prison has symbolic significance for the entire democratic world. this gesture demonstrates that the war on terrorism, which is waged in defence of western democratic values, must not neglect these very values. terrorism must be fought vigorously, but human rights must always be respected. even people suspected of committing serious crimes have the right to a fair trial by an impartial tribunal on clear legal grounds and to be punished in proportion to their crimes. there is no basis for speculation that romania is named in connection with the cia's secret prisons. no one could prove their existence in romania. romania is a loyal ally of the us in nato and in the fight against terrorism, primarily in afghanistan. but both the authorities and the public in romania strongly support respect for human rights. after suffering the abuses of the soviet occupation and the communist dictatorship, the citizens of romania disapprove of any violation of human rights.
as energy efficiency is one of the priority areas for the union's economic recovery and the fight against climate change, i consider it necessary to establish a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to mobilise public and private funds for the implementation of specific projects in the european union. this would be a model of efficiency in the use of european public money. i would like to ask the commission what its view is.
vice-president of the commission. − i do not know what parliament’s position is on the issue of salaries. it is a question of opening the staff regulations, which is a very complicated issue. this commission decided at the beginning not to open the staff regulations, but to make this machinery function smoothly. nobody has so far, bearing in mind the complexity of opening the staff regulations, suggested opening them again. of course, if we go with such a proposal, we must negotiate with our social partners, the trade unions. we can negotiate about this or ask them these questions definitely, but there is very little chance of opening the staff regulations before the parliament and commission terms end. concerning the funds, i did not understand the question. were you suggesting that all the funds should be merged? could you repeat the question?
i propose the creation of a european fund dedicated to energy efficiency but for projects implemented within the european union. i think it would be very useful for the sustainable economic development of the european union.
i express my support for the protection of minorities, respect for their culture, languages, traditions and customs. i believe that all member states should include in their national legislation, in various fields, specifications relating to the protection of minorities. in this respect, i believe that romania has a particularly well-constructed legislation in this area and can serve as an example for the other member states. the fact that the hungarian people are not the only ones who are suffering from the effects of the war in bosnia and herzegovina, and that the hungarian people are not the only ones who are suffering from the effects of the war in bosnia, is a fact which is not to be denied. the protection of minorities must not, however, lead to exaggerations such as collective rights, the promotion of autonomy and self-determination, including territorial ones. i also don't think it's helpful to divide minorities into different categories, because it can lead to the idea that different treatments are needed for these categories. all citizens must be treated equally, must have the same rights and obligations to the communities in which they live. decentralisation and local autonomy within national laws respond very well to all the wishes of citizens, regardless of nationality or ethnicity. it is not right to bring into question concepts which are not yet enshrined in current international law and which are not accepted at the level of the states and there is no need to take up council of europe provisions. a special mention should be made of the roma minority. i strongly believe that joint programmes at union level, especially in the field of education, would substantially accelerate the integration of roma. finally, i would remind you that any nation, however large, is a minority compared with the 500 million citizens of europe.
at european level there is a consistent set of rules, criteria and recommendations that ensure the protection of citizens belonging to national minorities and cases of violation of these are quite rare within the european union. romania has recognised rights for national minorities that go beyond european standards in this area, and the presence of romanian parliamentarians of hungarian nationality in this forum is living proof of this. it is essential for inter-ethnic harmony in europe that human rights be respected, but separatist excesses based on the exacerbation of ethnic rights must be stopped. the european project is one of integration, not enclaves on ethnic grounds. i also believe that we should pay more attention to the situation of national minorities in the countries neighbouring the union, especially when it comes to citizens of the same nationality as some of the member states. an example is the romanians in ukraine, serbia and the republic of moldova, deprived of basic rights and subject to an intense process of denationalization.
mr president, i welcome this debate, the more so as european history shows that in times of crisis ethnic tensions can inflame otherwise stable situations. i would like to believe that the intent of the initiators of this debate is to emphasise the generous core values and realities of the european project, because the realities of the european union are indeed the best standards in the world for the treatment of minorities. therefore, we should say out loud that this assembly does not and will not accept any divisive actions or the lowering of the standards i have just mentioned. as commissioner barrot has underlined, in each individual country of the union, there is a clear and, more often than not, official legal framework that ensures the protection of our cultural diversity. yet, for the sustainability of our multi-ethnic society, is there any alternative to higher education? real-life examples show that solving issues related to education fuels strong community development. education is, by its own nature, unifying rather than divisive. in fact, it teaches us that we are all someone else’s minority. the babeş-bolyai university in romania, in the transylvanian city of cluj, is an example of a multicultural university that has been cited time and again by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe as a positive example of multicultural and inter-ethnic excellence. where the need arises, higher-degree education in the language of minorities is part of the national educational system. let me give you the example of sapientia university in romania. these positive examples, however, do not mean that we can take our eye off the ball, and we must be aware that maybe the most challenging issue lies ahead of us: solving the difficult situation of the roma community throughout europe. it is my belief that the most effective way of solving this tremendously difficult european problem in the long term is through education. i would very much like to see a very substantial debate on how europe intends to take advantage of our unique educational system, so that we remain united in our diversity.
the council of europe is the institution that deals with the respect of human rights. the rights and protection of minorities fall within the competence of the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. traditional and ethnic minorities, migrant minorities and immigrants must respect the national legislation of the member state of residence. i believe that the integration of the new migrant minorities should not be part of the common immigration policy currently being drawn up by the union. this policy can only be defined when the existing barriers to the free movement of workers from the member states which joined the european union after 2004 disappear within the union. the protection of migrant minorities is one of the principles promoted by social europe. ensuring fair working conditions for all european citizens, regardless of their member state of origin, guarantees them a decent life. as a european socialist, i support the development of a european framework for legal immigration but i militate first and foremost for the respect of the basic principles of the european union for all european citizens.
unfortunately, this draft resolution is only before parliament today in the form of a question. representatives of traditional national minorities, communities, are trying to convince the majority, through peaceful means, through parliamentary means, that what is good in the 14 countries of europe will be good in the whole of the union. traditional national minorities have moved to a new country through no fault of their own, without ever having left their centuries-old homes. no one asked them if they wanted to change their citizenship, to learn a new official language. these traditional national minorities are the most loyal citizens of their countries. despite wars, economic crises, internal political battles, assimilation, they have not left their native homelands, old and new. their loyalty is unwavering. that is why it is incomprehensible that tens of millions of people in large countries are afraid of a few hundred thousand, perhaps half a million, one and a half million minorities. the various forms of self-determination used in the union, such as territorial or cultural autonomy, which is the result of a consensus policy of the majority and the minority, have not weakened the economic, political and social strength of the country concerned, or even that of the european union. my country, romania, has existed in its present form since 1920. in this area, 28% of the non-romanian population lived in 1930, today this number has decreased to 10%. several member states, including romania, have similar problems. there are laws, rights, but they cannot guarantee the implementation of these, even though linguistic, ethnic, regional diversity is a european value. it is therefore important that the existing and well-established eu models should be used to develop a guiding principle that is acceptable to all and does not infringe the territorial integrity of the countries.
firstly, i do not believe that the european union needs a common policy on minorities; we owe equal rights to all european citizens, regardless of ethnicity. on the other hand, if the signatories of the question under debate want a european policy in this respect, we assure them that, for example, romanian legislation can be considered an example of good practice. romania has perhaps the most generous and modern legislation at european level on national minorities. they enjoy broad political and social rights, identical to those of all citizens; significant minorities, such as the hungarian minority, receive education in their mother tongue at all levels; representatives of minorities have the right to seats in parliament, even if they do not obtain the necessary votes. moreover, the party of the hungarian minority which was invoked this evening and in the debates last night, has been part of the romanian government for 12 of the 19 years that romania has functioned as a democratic state.
minorities of all kinds must be supported both in preserving their own identity, values, traditions and language, and in developing their culture. in my view, romania, as a unitary and sovereign state, is a model in respecting the individual rights of members of any minority. i appreciate the approach of my fellow members of parliament and their continuing concern for the protection of ethnic, traditional or national minorities. it is a natural and welcome thing. but as far as the majority-minority connection goes, i want to make two points clear: 1) i believe that not only members of a minority should be involved in such actions, but also, to the same extent, the majority should be concerned about issues related to minorities, precisely to support and protect what we call "unity in diversity", which is happening in romania, and 2) i believe that, to the same extent, minorities should also be concerned about the state of the majority, because these two entities form, only together, that whole unit that contributes to the natural development of any society.
in the context of this debate, i would like to make a point to point out that national minorities make a lot of noise because they do not have arguments for all the rights they claim. i would like to launch a phrase in this regard, namely: "noise does no good and good does not make much noise". the european union's laws cannot only protect minorities and disadvantage national communities, because we are facing positive discrimination. i'd like to give an example where reality disproves what some people say. some have claimed that the rights of hungarian minorities are not respected in the field of education in romania, and since they come from the field of education, i would like to give an example that universities in romania have european standards in the field of treatment of minorities.
in the context of this debate, i would like to highlight the deterioration of the respect for the religious rights of romanians in the timoc valley, serbia. we're talking about a community of over 100,000 romanians. i hereby express my concern at the decision of the mayor of negotin, serbia, to demolish the foundation of the romanian-speaking orthodox church, although the priest boian alexandru has obtained all the necessary approvals. this church would be the second for romanians living in serbia. for the courage to build the first, priest boian alexander was sentenced to two months suspended. i would stress that serbia has committed itself, in accordance with article 5 of the stabilisation and association agreement, to respect human rights and the protection of ethnic and religious minorities. i would like to end with a quote from a letter by the priest boian alexandru, in the hope that the serbian authorities will not demolish this church where they will worship in romanian. i quote: ... to help us to acquire these rights in our country where we live, serbia, to have at least our church and school and to be able to speak romanian.
mr president, the european union has no jurisdiction as far as the status of national minorities in the member states is concerned. there is no problem, however, because all european union member states are also members of the council of europe, an organisation which is well-equipped and well-experienced to address that issue. to duplicate the activity of the council of europe would be detrimental to the scope of our work on minorities and would only create confusion and frustration. secondly, i am concerned to see that our approach on minorities places too much emphasis on solutions that were perhaps valid decades and centuries ago. i believe that in this field, as well, it would be better to develop our imagination more than our memory. finally, instead of revisiting fields already explored, the european union would be better advised to develop a concept of transnational protection of cultural rights in a continent where each ethno-cultural community is a minority as well.
in the current global context of globalisation and the mobility of people, i think that what has been said here tonight about territorial authority is meaningless. i think there are over a million romanians in spain and italy and i don't see why they would want territorial autonomy in those countries. i think that the creation of a committee or subcommittee at the european parliament level for the observance of minority rights would be a very good idea and would put into practice a european policy at this level, or, finally, if you wish, certain procedures for the observance of minority rights. i don't think romania has ever refused a visit from a president of any european state, which is what happened here. i think romania is an example of good practice for many of the countries of the european union.
thank you very much, mr. president. national minorities living in the european union enrich the union. the european parliament should take the lead in protecting ethnic minorities by initiating a meaningful debate on the legal status of minorities. parliament should undertake to develop and adopt a framework of rules which are binding on all member states. this framework is in fact in the interests of minority communities if it includes in its provisions, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity, that the implementation of different forms of autonomy based on consensus between the majority and the minority is the best way to ensure the appropriate status of minority communities. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president,ladies and gentlemen,i come from a region on the romanian-hungarian border, in the county of arad, where the problems of minorities have long been overcome. here, colleagues and childhood friends who attended primary school and then university studies in hungarian, today also use hungarian in the institutions where they work. i ruled arad county and the western region of romania. in this area, in the counties of arad, timis and bihor in romania, and csongrad and bekes in hungary, romanians together with hungarians have completed dozens of joint projects and are continuing others, using a single, european language to solve common european problems. i invite all those who wish to know the romanian model of solving the minority problem on the spot, before expressing themselves in various european forums, to know the reality on the spot.
the report presents both scientific data and recommendations for combating climate change, addressing both adaptation and reducing the causes that lead to it. fighting climate change is not only an obligation to ensure the future of future generations, but also an opportunity to revive the global economy. i ask that the importance of energy efficiency be reflected in the community budget and in the financial instruments available. making transport more efficient through the use of intelligent transport systems, promoting rail and shipping, ensuring intermodality and investing in greener cars will reduce emissions from this sector. i have recommended the development of greener types of tourism, such as sports tourism or cultural tourism, and i stress that the best tourist destinations should be those that respect and protect the environment. i think that an international fund should be considered to plant trees on unused land. in conclusion, he said that research is needed in medical science and pharmaceuticals to produce drugs and vaccines that will be available to all people affected by certain diseases at an affordable price.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in the last few months we have seen what it means for the global economy to be hit by an unprecedented crisis, the credit crisis. but the climate, food and social crises are also being felt. in romania, we have been facing declines in production in recent years due to external causes such as floods, drought, avian influenza, to which economic problems have been added in recent months. in the context of the financial crisis, it will be increasingly difficult for us to cover from the state budget the damage caused by floods or drought. throughout my work in the committee on agriculture, i have supported the idea of setting up independent intervention mechanisms at community level, independent of the value of national ceilings. i also believe that in a confrontation of this magnitude we must prioritize investments in clean technologies and renewable energy. they are a solution to the climate crisis and at the same time, economic recovery through job creation. as part of our european mandate, we have a duty to persuade our governments to invest more in innovation and new environmental technologies.
in writing. i believe that mr florenz's report 2050: the future starts today recommendations for a future integrated policy for environmental protection in the eu was timely and necessary in view of the observed and anticipated effects of climate change. romania is one of the first european countries to sign the kyoto protocol, whereby it has committed itself to supporting the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by 2012. i am convinced of the need for these measures, although, compared to many other european countries, romania has low greenhouse gas emissions. both agriculture and the romanian forestry fund can play an important role in the fight against climate change, which has been strongly felt in recent years, especially through floods and high temperatures and prolonged droughts. these phenomena affect both agricultural and forest productivity and valuable habitats and ecosystems. agriculture and forestry are expected to continue to make an important contribution to combating the effects of climate change through afforestation to absorb and retain greenhouse gases and the use of biomass as a source of renewable energy.
in writing. the european union has played a major role in the effort to find a compromise for a global post-kyoto agreement and it is possible that, together with the new us administration, a concrete way to achieve this agreement can be found. concrete measures to combat the effects of climate change offer just as many opportunities for sustainable socioeconomic development and job creation. they are particularly targeted at new and dynamic sectors with major growth potential, in which insufficient investment has been made to date. these measures, in addition to their beneficial effect in the fight against climate change, will also have a positive effect in mitigating the effects of the economic and financial crisis and may lead, in the long term, to a decrease in the european union's dependence on energy imports. we are talking about accelerated investment in transport infrastructure, renewable energy, biotechnology, waste collection and recycling, nuclear energy, thermal rehabilitation of housing. reforestation and measures to combat desertification can have dramatic results in the medium term.
in writing. the report provides a clear guide for future action in its 12 points. but to be able to act locally, nationally, regionally, globally, we need the support of well-informed citizens. according to the special eurobarometer on 'climate change' in spring 2008, some 41% of europeans feel poorly informed about the causes, consequences and ways of combating climate change. in romania, over 65% of citizens are not informed. raising awareness through education and awareness campaigns in everyday life is an essential step in this direction. the commission and the member states must finance awareness-raising campaigns among citizens, create conditions for training new careers adapted to the specific challenges of the labour market caused by structural economic changes, which are accelerated by climate change and its effects. in the context of the economic crisis, the eu needs to engage politically and financially in the key areas of supporting and developing 'clean' technologies to combat climate change, supporting cross-border adaptation measures, increasing energy efficiency and disaster relief, in line with the eu principle of solidarity. all this means creating 'green' jobs in new and competitive enterprises.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, any debate about climate, ecosystem, energy, is extremely important, because any major change in these can affect life on earth. regardless of the causes or the scientific arguments of different groups of scientists, one thing is certain: we are facing a global warming phenomenon. this comprehensive and consistent report, with all the useful and valuable information it provides, prompts the question: what can we do for ourselves and future generations? in this climate change context, i believe there are three types of projects that eu member states should develop and support as a matter of priority: 1. projects concerning the implementation of common policies for the most efficient management of energy and the search for solutions to reduce pollution, particularly in the case of industrial zones and parks. 2. projects relating to the financing of scientific research capable of developing non-polluting technologies. 3. projects that immediately support concrete actions to restore the ecosystem both at european level and in any other area of the world.
in writing. the european union has taken a leading role in the fight against climate change, and a long-term strategy for efficient management of natural resources will ensure a low-carbon global economy. this strategy must be based on the principle of solidarity in order to achieve a balance between rich countries and developing countries that need support in reducing their vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change. global warming is translated into poverty, insufficient food and limited energy resources. it is well known that oil is no longer a sufficiently strong energy source to meet demand, which is expected to increase by at least 60% by 2030. finding alternative sources and making rational use of existing resources is a challenge facing the union in the future. agriculture is one of the sectors most exposed to climate change because of its dependence on weather conditions. given that this sector provides food for the world's population, the sustainable management of soil and water resources, as well as the protection of forests and biodiversity, will need to be on the agenda of the long-term strategy to counter the effects of global warming.
in writing. the european union has become the main actor taking concrete steps in adopting policies to respond to the global challenge of climate change. european policy in this area can become more effective globally and within the eu if: (a) european efforts are supported by those of other highly industrialized countries outside the eu, such as china, india, brazil, russia, etc.; (b) the development of nuclear energy is encouraged and not discouraged, at least for the next 30-40 years, until technologies for exploiting renewable resources are developed and costs allow for marketing without subsidies; (c) the european commission will give stronger support to energy saving and biomass energy projects, including technology transfer, in the eu's least developed and high agricultural potential member states. romania will continue to develop its nuclear electricity generation programme. it will also modernise coal-fired power stations and step up efforts to produce energy from biomass. in this respect, we need partnerships with the member states and we call for the european commission to speed up its efforts to simplify the procedures for the mobilisation of european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the florenz report because i agree with the recommendations made for the future integrated environmental protection policy. this report calls on the commission to closely monitor and analyse the latest scientific research findings in order to assess, in particular, whether the eu's 2oc target would actually achieve its goal of avoiding dangerous climate change. it also stresses the importance of the eu and the other industrialised countries as a group setting a medium-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25%-40% by 2020 and a long-term target of reducing emissions by at least 80% by 2050 compared to 1990, while continuing to focus on the goal of limiting the increase in average global temperature to 2oc above pre-industrial levels, thus achieving a 50% probability of achieving this target.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report 2050: the future begins today recommendations for a future integrated policy for environmental protection in the eu because climate change can produce irreversible disasters and the era of cheap fossil energy is coming to an end. the eu, in collaboration with its strategic partners, must therefore make every effort to reduce its current dependence on fossil fuels and to significantly increase the share of renewable energy. with the right investments, the energy efficiency of the european economy needs to be increased and greenhouse gas emissions reduced by more than 25% over the next 12 years. the eu must take decisive action to meet the 2050 targets: less greenhouse gas emissions, 60% renewable energy and energy efficiency. the european year of creativity and innovation can be a major landmark in this regard, underlining the fundamental importance of investing in scientific research and new technologies.
in writing. − by adopting this report, the european union is demonstrating that it is actively involved in combating the adverse effects of climate change. global warming is one of the most delicate problems facing the entire planet and therefore requires a joint effort by all countries. the more than 150 recommendations included in this report cover most of the areas that can be improved to meet the european target of reducing temperature rise to 2 degrees c. to ensure that this is achieved, it is necessary to involve all people actively and to educate them properly in the spirit of environmental protection and responsibility towards future generations. the european economic recovery plan supports the fight against global warming by allocating funds for the development of innovative technologies, but also by means of improving energy efficiency. investing in research and innovation can develop clean technologies to respond to the challenges posed by climate change. i consider the proposed measures to be feasible and to be implemented in the medium and long term. although most countries are facing a range of economic and financial challenges, particular attention needs to be paid to addressing the negative effects of climate change.
in writing. − investments in clean technologies and green energy, so necessary in the fight against global warming, are becoming increasingly difficult to finance in the current economic context. that is why i join my fellow meps in supporting this report, which proposes measures to increase 'smart' investment, a solution not only to the climate crisis but also to the current credit crisis, as it has a great potential to generate new jobs. one such measure is the commission's proposal for a regulation, currently being debated in parliament, which provides for member states to be able to finance large-scale public works programmes for the rehabilitation of housing from the structural and cohesion funds. the benefits are many: low-income families can receive financial support for upgrading heating systems and can benefit from substantial savings on maintenance bills. in addition, the measure will also contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, a priority in the context of the recent energy crisis that europe has been experiencing.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it constitutes the 'roadmap in 12 action points' of the future integrated policy for environmental protection. the report stresses the importance of the eu and the other industrialised countries as a group setting a medium-term target of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 25-40% by 2020 and, in the longer term, by 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. to achieve these goals and adapt to climate change, funding of around €175 million per year is needed at eu level. this requires the creation of a climate fund, fed by revenues from the emissions trading scheme and/or corresponding private funds in the member states to ensure the financing of future climate policy, the investments and the solidarity it will entail. particular attention should be paid to research to ensure scientific support for the development and deployment of 'clean' technologies. environmental policy must be used as a chance for the adaptation strategy to the effects of climate change, applied correctly and cross-sectorally, to counteract the effects of the crisis by creating new 'green' jobs in competitive enterprises.
in writing. - the report drawn up by our colleague is a first step towards combating illegal employment and reducing one of the most serious phenomena of cross-border crime. whereas previously, state policies have focused more on how to prevent illegal immigrants from entering the labor market, this time we're tackling the root of the problem by punishing employers who take advantage of the vulnerability of illegal immigrants. many of these workers work in the agricultural sector, and there are countless instances where the conditions they endure are inhuman, often without pay. the regulations we're proposing will not only punish employers, but will also ensure that workers receive their back pay. we needed such provisions to establish uniform rules at community level for the penalisation of employers, since in most cases this phenomenon is fuelled by transnational networks of traffickers in live meat. we must not interpret this report as closing the union's borders, but merely as strengthening the principle of community preference. given the demographic profile of most member states, we must keep the borders of the labour market open, provided that the flow of workers is legal and adapted to the needs of the community.
in writing. − i voted for the european parliament resolution on solving the energy efficiency problem through information and communication technologies, because i am convinced that these technologies can provide viable solutions to this problem. energy efficiency is a very important issue because we know that the natural resources from which energy is obtained are becoming scarcer and are going to be depleted at some point. i therefore consider that any technology that achieves energy efficiency is a positive aspect that can benefit society as a whole.
madam president, how many recognitions are necessary for a state to be independent? this is not the question, since the quality of the recognitions matters more than the quantity. a declaration of self-determination does not lead to independence if the state in question is not recognised by those from which it wants to self-determine. the independence of a state is not real as long as the united nations security council does not accept it. moreover, a state is not independent if it is not able to offer to all communities living on its territory a fair prospect of organic integration into a civic and multicultural society, and if it is not self-sustainable and self-governable. for all these reasons, the athisaari plan failed. asking for the status quo ante is not a solution either – one should move further. to this end, the european union and the permanent members of the united nations security council must convene an international conference which should find a sustainable solution for democratic security, geo-strategic equilibrium and social economic stability in the western balkans. within this framework kosovo should be put back on the track of international legality, and the region should receive a clear road map for its eu integration. unfortunately, the lagendijk report does not explore such ways thus abandoning any realistic drive towards a better future. therefore, romanian social democrats will be obliged to vote against this report.
in accordance with the provisions of international law and in the light of un security council resolution 1244 of 1999, kosovo cannot be considered a state. there are five eu member states that have not recognised kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. but kosovo is a reality and we must treat it as such. stability in the western balkans, the region most likely to join the union in the near future, is vital. the union must therefore play the leading role in managing the delicate situation in the area. the eulex mission, which has already reached its initial operational capability, is an important first step in this direction, as assistance and coordination are needed to ensure, first of all, a climate of inter-ethnic cooperation that will allow a return to a normal level of life. the protection of all minorities in kosovo, including the serb minority, must be ensured, institutions must be strengthened to avoid chaos and ensure stable development, property must be returned and the right of return of refugees must be guaranteed. the financial instruments at the disposal of the union, in particular the pre-accession instrument, should be used to facilitate socio-economic development, increased transparency and reconciliation between ethnic communities. kosovo must not, under any circumstances, be isolated from european processes. it must enjoy a european perspective in a regional context. we need to apply the same standards throughout the region. what is required of other countries in the region must also apply to serbia and kosovo. the european union must insist on the resumption of the dialogue between pristina and belgrade. i believe that the current form of the resolution does not reflect the full spectrum of positions of all 27 eu member states towards kosovo. the romanian delegation from the epp-de group, with the exception of the hungarian delegation, will therefore vote against this resolution.
serbia had to be bombed to understand that it had to respect the rights of minorities. it was a hard lesson. instead of giving autonomy to kosovo, it should accept kosovo's independence. kosovo also warns eu member states. each member state should ensure that traditional national minorities are safe and feel at home in its territory. satisfied minorities are the most secure foundation for the security, sovereignty, and economic development of a country. on 17 february 2008, i personally attended the official ceremony in pristina to mark the declaration of independence of kosovo. i hope that i can also be convinced that the cultural and territorial autonomy of the serbian minority is being realised in kosovo. the albanians in kosovo have been given the opportunity to find a solution of european standard. serbia has one more chance: the vichy. eu member states may also seek to grant cultural or territorial autonomy to national minorities living in their territory. it would be embarrassing for some eu member states to follow kosovo and serbia.
as a member of parliament, a member of the delegation for south east europe, i expected to hear, on behalf of our common values, which we proudly call 'european values', that the european parliament and the european commission are calling with all force and authority for kosovo's political parties to open up to multi-ethnic representation and that any future progress in kosovo's relations with the european union depends on such a development. i expected this report to tell us that the model that the eu, with european taxpayers' money, is seeking to build in kosovo is a truly multiethnic, multicultural, multi-confessional one and not a segregated one. in our discussions with the kosovo parliamentarians, we were told that this model could not be applied at the moment. i ask you, and i conclude, if this model cannot be applied in kosovo, if our european values do not take place in kosovo, what is the model that the european commission is applying?
eulex is the largest civilian operation launched under the european security and defence policy. i would like to point out that of the 1900 international employees, 200 are romanian gendarmes and police. romania is thus participating in eulex because it is bucharest's duty to support its partners in the european union, even if it sometimes disagrees with the decisions of a majority of them. romania has not recognised the independence of the state of kosovo for reasons related, among others, to avoiding the legitimisation of any separatist movements. a negotiated solution between belgrade and pristina, possibly confederated, would have been preferable to the current situation. however, in the circumstances it is important that the european union successfully carries out its mission. however, the situation in which the union's involvement is prolonged indefinitely must be avoided. kosovo must not become a protectorate of the european union, but must be helped to be self-sustaining. this is important for both kosovo and the european union, especially in the context of the current economic crisis and the limited resources we have.
i agree with many of the ideas expressed here, but the problem is much more complex. romania is right to consider that the legal basis for kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence is highly doubtful, since under international law minorities do not have collective rights, the right to self-determination and secession. the rights of persons belonging to national minorities are, i stress, fundamental. the secession of kosovo and the recognition of its statehood by other countries set a dangerous precedent, which was followed just a few months later by russia's unilateral recognition of the independence of the breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia. in both cases, prime minister putin clearly invoked the kosovo model. separatist movements in regions such as kashmir, nagorno-karabakh, transnistria, crimea, northern cyprus, etc., immediately claimed that these regions were as entitled to independence as kosovo. i believe that in the future the european union and its member states must consistently uphold the principle of the territorial integrity of all states and actively discourage separatist tendencies. the european union must make a special effort to stabilise the entire western balkans region and to realise the european perspective.
the debate on the crisis in the automobile industry and the decisions that will follow should not be without the problems of the car component manufacturers. these have in turn been hit by the crisis as a result of the domino effect, because they depend on the beneficiaries' production interruptions. in romania, for example, there are over 400 companies producing automotive components, with a combined turnover of eur 8 billion in 2008. three quarters of these companies are small and usually produce for a single beneficiary. so i feel the effects of the crisis very hard. in such circumstances, they are forced to resort to layoffs or find solutions such as reduced hours or unpaid leave. tire manufacturers are also severely affected. given the large number of employees in these companies, i believe that it is necessary to include the manufacturers of automotive components and tires in any future formula of economic support in the context of the crisis.
in writing. if we look at the european union as a living organism, then the european automotive industry is its backbone. it represents 3% of the eu's gdp and generates a trade surplus of €35 billion. however, 2008 was a difficult year for the industry, with car sales falling in the first half of the year due to the increase in fuel prices and in the second half of the year falling by 19,3% due to the financial crisis. these are not the only difficulties facing this sector. between 2009 and 2015, the automotive sector must meet new standards for emissions, fuel economy, etc., all of which add billions of euros to the industry's costs. the above figures are also relevant because the automobile industry provides income for over 12 million families. one job at an auto company keeps four more at a supplier and five more in the related sales and marketing sectors. it is therefore clear that the health of this sector of the european economy is vital for the eu economy as a whole. in these circumstances, swift and coordinated action by governments and european institutions is absolutely necessary (programmes to return old machines in exchange for a substantial discount on the purchase of new ones, financial aid, etc.).
in writing. the economic crisis has hit the automotive industry hard, a sector that contributes significantly to the gdp of many european countries. even if the eu has no direct mechanisms to intervene, member states must be allowed to take the necessary measures to prevent the collapse of an industry on which the jobs of thousands of european citizens depend. the romanian automotive industry is also severely affected by the crisis. i am only mentioning the cases of dacia renault, which is restricting its activity, and ford, which has asked for support from the romanian state. the serious situation at european level calls for the immediate introduction of appropriate measures. i am not referring here to protective measures that distort the market, but to measures that give equal opportunities to european industry and allow workers in this industry to keep their jobs. it is not enough to act internally, we need action at european level. the economic recovery plan makes this possible by proposing new lending rules in the european banking system to facilitate access to credit. it is also important that the state aid schemes to which member states apply are quickly and easily accessible. this is a key aspect for strategic investors such as those in the automotive market.
president-in-office of the council. − let me begin by saying that i appreciate the question on smes, because during this current economic crisis the big businesses and the big companies are always strong enough to lobby for some relief, but it is much more difficult for smes and it certainly requires a systemic approach. on 1 december 2008, as you know, the council endorsed the european economic recovery plan, which was presented by the commission on 26 november 2008. as a response to the financial crisis, the council supported a stimulus which is equivalent to about 1.5% of the eu’s gross domestic product to restore business and consumer confidence. furthermore, the plan contains specific measures to support smes, the most important of which are those aimed at improving access to finance for smes and reducing the administrative burden. the council also agreed that improvements in the framework conditions for european businesses, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, was essential to counter the effect of the crisis on competitiveness and to support and enhance job creation. the council also adopted two sets of conclusions related to providing support for smes, in the context of overall competitiveness. firstly, conclusions endorsing proposals to support smes presented in the commission communication entitled, as you probably know, ‘think small first: a small business act for europe’, this so-called sba, including an action plan outlining the priority measures requiring particular attention. secondly, conclusions from the commission communication entitled ‘towards world-class clusters in the european union – implementing the broad-based innovation strategy’. although clusters are not exclusively meant for the smes, they play an important role in many clusters that have been set up throughout the eu. at its meeting in mid-december 2008, the european council approved this european economic recovery plan and supported the full implementation of the action plan for the small business act. it has specifically supported an increase in the intervention by the european investment bank to the tune of eur 30 billion for the years 2009-2010, especially for loans to smes, which amount to an increase of eur 10 million over the eib usual lending in this sector. the council also supported a temporary exemption for two years beyond the de minimis threshold for state aid in respect of an amount of up to eur 50 000 and the adaptation of the state aid framework as required to increase support for enterprises, especially the smes. the council also called for the use of accelerated procedures for awarding public contracts provided for ec legislation, as well as for reducing the administrative burden on businesses. the czech presidency will continue to pursue this effort, because our economy is broadly based on smes, so we have our own experience with that. therefore, both of the forthcoming competitiveness councils under the czech presidency – one will take place very soon in early march, as well as the informal one which will take place in prague – will tackle the question of reducing the administrative burden, since we believe that better regulation is an important factor for improving competitiveness, in particular for smes, and it plays an even more important role in times of economic crisis. moreover, the presidency will try to make progress in the implementation of the action plan and put this sme policy at the forefront of society as well as linking the implementation of the action plan to the national reform programmes of all the member states. the presidency will also continue with the increased effort of discussing legislative proposals related to smes, such as the regulation on the statute for a european private company, which would offer smes a form of business enabling them to take advantage of their potential and develop cross-border activities. another legislative proposal i should mention is the proposed directive for reduced vat rates for labour-intensive services, which will be discussed at the upcoming ecofin councils. in addition, the council will be concerned with the review of the late payment directive, which is now being prepared and which is to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are paid in time for all business transactions. again, that is pretty important in the current situation.
i would like to ask the council about the european economic recovery plan. this plan provides for €30 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission informed us that they would be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. i would like to ask the council what measures it is taking to ensure that all member states develop national programmes to support small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can access these funds.
president-in-office of the council. − i think we all know where the problem lies. it does not lie in the european union. i think the european union is very much in favour of completing the doha round and we did all that was necessary for it in the course of the last year and we almost, almost made it. where, then, is the problem? first we have to wait for the us administration, and, while some appointments have already been made, some others are still to come, and it remains to be seen whether the current us administration will remain committed to trade liberalisation. we may have some doubts about a fast-track approach under the current circumstances. another country to discuss this with is india, which, as we know, is expecting elections in the spring. so as a representative of the council who is coming from a small or medium-sized country which traditionally has an open economy, i would like to promote this, and would like to tell you that our primary goal is to finish the talks successfully, as soon as possible, but i am afraid we also have to be realistic, and i cannot promise you castles in the air. the optimistic scenario is this: a clear favourable message from the g20 meeting which will take place in london early in april, and then the fulfilment and implementation of the commitment, which could be followed by a ministerial meeting in geneva in june or july. there agricultural and nama (non-agricultural market access) modalities could be concluded. so we are all hoping for that. we will be working hard to do that, but we will see when we meet here at the end of our presidency whether we have been successful or not.
president-in-office of the council. − i would like to thank mrs ţicău for her question, which is also timely. housing, or the issue of increasing energy efficiency and the commitment to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, has to be taken seriously. the council shares the view that the draft revised directive on the energy efficiency of buildings is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the community’s targets on increased energy efficiency, renewable energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. the recent gas crisis has once again unveiled the vulnerability of the eu vis-à-vis energy dependency. should we succeed in meeting an ambitious reduction goal, while not increasing energy security risks, we must adopt a series of short-, medium- and long-term measures that will decrease our energy dependency. increasing the energy efficiency of buildings is definitely among the most important of them. as a result, the presidency is beginning to examine this draft directive at working party level. the aim of the examination is to explore difficulties in the proposal. we expect that the question of the scope of the directive will be put on the table first. this question of scope is the most important, not only in relation to possible energy savings, but also regarding the administrative burden of households. therefore, the czech presidency will ensure that work continues intensively over the coming months. i have regular discussions with martin bursík, my colleague in the government and the minister of the environment, who chairs the respective council. the council will also follow closely the work on this issue in the itre committee. for your information, i am meeting the chair of the committee after this question time. the presidency is committed to making as much progress as possible, with a view to the early adoption of the directive. to that end, it plans to submit a progress report to the tte council in mid-june. the adoption of the council conclusions on the second strategic energy review is envisaged for the first tte councils, which will be held on 19 february, and which will form the input for the march european council meeting. adequate attention will also be paid to the recent ukraine-russia gas dispute and its consequences. a policy debate will be held on the draft council directive on the oil stock. so, in general, the council considers it important that the highest priority be given to the finalisation of the negotiations with the european parliament on the third internal energy market legislative package over the coming months. the council also recalls that energy efficiency will be addressed in relation to the wider question of energy security, the protection of the environment and, indeed, the context of the examination of the second strategic energy review.
i want you to know that in my report i will propose the establishment of a european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to help mobilise private as well as public funds for the implementation of energy efficiency projects throughout the european union and i would like to have the council's support for this important initiative.
first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the families who have suffered as a result of this disaster. we have all seen the dramatic consequences of the passage of klaus and we have also seen the first interventions on the ground, both from the affected states and from other european states. since we are talking more about effects and aid funds, i would like to ask the commission what concrete projects are actually in a position to implement preventive mechanisms for such cases so that, at least in the future, we do not have any more loss of human life?
it is good that we can debate this evening on the basis of the statement that the commission, commissioner, has already made on the use of waste oils in the preparation of food in ireland. i would like to extend the debate a little bit and tell you that many member states, and i will now talk about romania, were affected by this incident, or more correctly, the incident affected the meat industry but, above all, the consumers. it affected the industry which had suffered significant losses in a very short period of time and consumers in a period which, at least in romania, is characterised by a high consumption of pork as a result of the traditional way of celebrating christmas. the only thing that worked really well was informing the veterinary authorities through the european rapid alert system. but beyond that, all the information went into a black box. how much infested meat got in, where it was distributed, where the preparations were, were questions with partial answers, sometimes nonexistent. the effect? a panic reaction among consumers and a lot of losses by producers and, equally, a rather weak capacity of the authorities responsible to effectively manage such incidents. we have, in my view, at least two problems. firstly, dioxin contamination, as a result of the use of oil residues, dioxin being a substance which, as we all know, is a great danger, being very toxic to the human body, even in very small quantities. what do we do to prevent such incidents from happening again? the second question is: how do we increase the capacity of the responsible authorities in the member states to react and act in such dangerous situations? i hope, and i conclude with this, that the debate will provide answers to at least these two questions.
the reporter. i am pleased that we have the opportunity to debate in plenary an important component not only for the agricultural sector at community level but for the overall competitiveness of the european economy. at a time when our economies are suffering as a result of the global crisis and when increasing demand for agricultural products is a necessity, the amendment of regulation 3/2008 on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries gives us additional leverage to support agricultural producers and, by implication, the community economy. european council regulation 3/2008, bringing together regulations 2702/1999 and 2826/2000 in a single text, responded to the european commission's new policy approach to simplification of legislation and corresponds to the objective of facilitating administrative procedures within the european institutions. under this regulation, the community may carry out information activities on the internal market and on third-country markets for a number of agricultural products, while maintaining the specific character of the actions depending on the market in which they are carried out. this policy responds to a real need for member states to promote the image of their agricultural products, especially the advantages in terms of quality, nutritional value, food safety standards, both among european consumers and those in other countries. it also contributes to the opening of a new market and has the effect of multiplying national and private initiatives. the amendments initiated by the european commission are designed to allow the member states concerned to draw up a relevant programme, in case the proposing organisations do not wish to submit programmes to be carried out in third countries. the member states will thus be able to extend the scope of the actions covered by these programmes and also to request the assistance of international organisations for the implementation of these actions. the draft report under discussion provides for certain additions and adaptations to the commission proposal which are necessary to clarify and complete the reasoning of the regulation. firstly, we propose to introduce consultation with professional associations/organisations active in the sectors concerned in the member states in the process of drawing up information programmes on agricultural products, both on the internal market and in third countries. given the expertise and important role these associations/organisations have in quality assurance and quality control, their consultation is absolutely necessary. we also support the development of these programmes on the basis of an assessment of their need and their appropriateness, so that we can be sure that funds are spent effectively on programmes which meet the objective of contributing to the promotion of community products. we also propose to extend the areas where international organisations can be entrusted with the implementation of information programmes for third countries. promotion and publicity actions are also relevant for the wine sector, both on the internal market of the european union and in third countries. in the wine sector, as in the olive oil and table olives sectors, there are international bodies, such as the international organisation of vine and wine, which can ensure the implementation of programmes proposed by member states in third countries, thus making known the characteristics and advantages of wines with a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication. another amendment we are proposing is to increase the percentage of european union co-financing from 60% to 70%, given that access to finance, particularly for small producers, is becoming increasingly difficult due to the financial crisis. without financial support, they risk becoming bankrupt, lacking leverage to promote their products and facing a decline in market demand. the ultimate aim of these proposals is to lead to higher market demand to increase production and support the european economy as a whole. achieving this goal will help us to overcome these difficult times we are going through. the quality of agricultural and food products in the european union is an asset that we must exploit to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy and to ensure higher incomes for producers. i hope that the recommendations we will adopt will be adopted as soon as possible by the european commission and the member states, because we cannot afford to waste time at a time like this when european citizens are being hit by the effects of a very serious economic crisis. of course, the proposed measures will not solve all the problems related to the marketing and promotion of community agri-food products. simplifying the bureaucratic procedures for registering traditional products, establishing a 'product in the european union' trademark, tackling the problem of products imported from third countries with lower standards of quality and safety are all issues that we need to consider in order to increase the market share of community products. thank you, and i look forward to your comments and questions.
i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague on his efforts as rapporteur to simplify community legislation in order to reduce the administrative burden that we so badly need. the information activities carried out by the european union respond to a real need of the member states to promote the image of their agricultural products, both among european consumers and those in other countries, especially in terms of quality, nutritional value and food safety and production methods. as rapporteur on quality, i am very much concerned about this competitive advantage of our european products. the amendment will allow interested member states to propose information programmes even in the absence of proposed programmes for third countries. as a result of this amendment, member states will be able to extend the scope of the actions covered by these programmes and also to request the assistance of international organisations for the implementation of these actions. the percentage of the european union's financial contribution should be increased to provide additional support to projects selected by the member states, in the context of the general tightening of the conditions for obtaining the necessary co-financing by national organisations and authorities. i support the idea that the body responsible for implementing the selected programme should be an international organisation, especially where the programme is aimed at promoting the olive oil and table olives sector, but also wines with a protected designation of origin and wines with a protected geographical indication in third countries. at the same time, account should be taken of the important role played by professional associations/organisations active in the sectors concerned in the member states in the process of drawing up the information programmes on agricultural products. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur once again, and in particular the commissioner, for accepting all the proposals we made in the report.
we are discussing today a report of great importance to european agriculture. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the quality and safety of european products is a competitive advantage that has not yet been fully exploited. actions to inform and promote these products, their quality and the food safety standards they comply with can generate a chain reaction by increasing demand, increasing production and farmers' profits, creating new jobs and, implicitly, economic growth. these actions must be directed equally at consumers in the internal market and those in third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. consumers need to recognise community products, to know why they are healthier than others and, not least, to know that by buying them they are supporting european farmers and food producers, that is, the european economy. i particularly appreciate the rapporteur's initiative in recognising the important role of professional associations and organisations, because they often have expertise that state institutions do not have and are better informed about the realities and needs of the market. at the same time, i believe that the proposal to increase the cofinancing rate is absolutely necessary in the context of the current credit crisis and i am convinced that this will increase the rate of use of these funds. finally, i would like to congratulate mr dumitriu, the rapporteur, on his work and his proposals, and i believe that all my colleagues share this view.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr dumitriu. the agricultural sector is important for the economies of the member states because it provides food for the population, agricultural exports and a significant number of jobs. the european union must be able to provide food for its people in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices. clearly, in a competitive market, information and promotion actions for agricultural products on the domestic market and in third countries are becoming increasingly important. in defining the programmes for the promotion of agricultural products, professional associations or organisations must be consulted. i believe that this regulation will help european farmers to promote their agricultural products. romania has a lot of agri-food products that unfortunately we don't find on european markets, although many of them are organic. a campaign to promote them will benefit both european buyers and romanian agricultural producers. it is clear that, especially in times of economic crisis, the agricultural sector remains one of the sectors that needs special attention, appropriate programmes and funding. in a crisis, member states are obliged to set their priorities more carefully. i therefore believe that agriculture must remain a sector to be supported because it is important for the european economy.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on this report which raises a very important issue. there is a real need for member states to promote the image of their agricultural products to consumers in the european community and abroad. i would like to highlight two proposals made in this report. the percentage of the european community's financial contribution is requested to be increased to provide additional support for projects selected by the member states, in the context of the general tightening of the conditions for obtaining the necessary co-financing by national organisations and authorities. the second paragraph of this amendment requires that the european community's financial contribution be 70% for measures to promote fruit and vegetables for schoolchildren. i believe these amendments are timely and i hope that this initiative will be supported by as many meps as possible.
i congratulate the rapporteur on his efforts and contribution to widening the scope of information and promotion programmes for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. one of the most important changes introduced by this report is the 10% increase in both european co-financing for programmes to promote european agricultural products and budgetary allocations for the promotion of dairy products, fruit and vegetables in schools. on the one hand, europe will benefit from more active promotion for a greater number of agricultural products, and on the other hand, the most important beneficiaries of community aid will be children and schoolchildren. i think the measures proposed are very important because now more than ever we need investment in the areas that are developing rapidly and can lead to economic recovery. agriculture is one such area and the european union can make a significant contribution to its promotion.
i support the report by mr dimitriu on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market. i believe that the percentage of financial participation by the european community should be increased in order to provide additional support for projects selected by the member states. in particular, it is essential to increase the european community's financial contribution to 70% of the real cost of the new programme to promote fruit and vegetables to children in european union schools. this measure will contribute substantially to the implementation of the school fruit and vegetable promotion program, and this effort must be made for the health of our children.
member of the commission. − mr president, my thanks for all the contributions. it is great to hear such enthusiasm and interest in this important issue. i think that all the comments here are to a certain extent very much in line with the commission’s view on the proposal. i would like to take this opportunity to respond to some of the questions or issues raised here. first of all on the financing – this has been raised by quite a few of you – to increase the cofinancing rate. i think, though, that we have to be very cautious and careful when we try to monitor the benefit of the community financing because i fear that if we increase the cofinancing, the bottom line will be that there will be less promotion. that would be a bad outcome and that is the reason why we have maintained our proposal. quality has been mentioned quite a few times today and i agree with you. i think we have a golden opportunity to discuss this quality issue that is also linked to how we promote our products in the third world, how we explain to consumers what they get when they buy european. last october we presented a green paper on quality and we have had lots of contributions; there are more than 1 000 contributions on the website from all over europe. we are now digesting all these different ideas and we will present a communication in may. we should take this opportunity when the discussion takes place here in parliament on communication to make a link – how do we improve our possibilities to make it visible and make it understandable. here the labelling issue, which is both difficult and important, comes into the discussions so i am looking forward to having a discussion with you on this issue in the autumn. finally, regarding the school fruit scheme which has been raised here today – it is not part of the proposal, but just to keep you updated – we introduced a school fruit scheme with a cofinancing rate of 70% to the increase awareness of young people and to take the opportunity to underline the importance of good eating habits among school children. once again my thanks to the rapporteur, mr dumitriu, for a very good report. i think it is very well mirrored here today by the dynamic discussion that we have had.
the reporter. - i'll apologize if i'm a few seconds late than the two minutes i'm supposed to be. i thank you for your very pertinent comments and assessments on this report. i trust that the rest of the house will see fit to pass the new regulations and we will have a vote in favour. i would like to inform my colleagues that i will listen to their suggestions, particularly with a view to promoting european diversity, european quality labelling and more substantial community financial support. to the question: why wine, alongside olive oil among international organizations that can implement promotion projects, i would like to answer you with another question: why olive oil? my answer is in favor of both. they are the export products of the european union's most successful states. they have strong and experienced international organisations that have already proven their ability to manage complex programmes, and the report's provisions do not exclude other areas. the second question, why 70% co-financing, the initial percentage was 60% and we considered it necessary, in the current economic context, to increase it. as the experience of absorbing european funds so far shows, one of the big problems remains obtaining co-financing, and now we are facing a credit crisis in addition. so we need to increase that percentage, otherwise we risk being left with unused funds. commissioner fischer boel, i would like to thank you for the importance you have attached to this report and for the assessments you have made. although this is a consultation report, i hope and wish that these amendments will be included in the commission's new proposal. in conclusion and in summary, there are two reasons why this report is necessary. member states will be able to extend the scope of the actions covered by these programmes and to request the assistance of international organisations for the implementation of these actions. it gives a greater role to professional organisations and associations in the design and implementation of information and product promotion programmes and, not least, it is consistent with the proposals to adapt european legislation in order to make the use of european funds more accessible by increasing the co-financing rate at a time when access to credit is extremely difficult. in order to have a further recommendation, i would point out that the report was adopted unanimously by the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i would like to thank my colleagues in the commission for their support, i would like to thank mr neil parish personally for his support and, last but not least, mr lutz goepel for the confidence he has shown in me when he entrusted me with this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the information activities carried out by the community respond to a real need of the member states to promote the image of their agricultural products among both community and non-community consumers, particularly with regard to the quality, nutritional value and safety of foodstuffs and production methods. it also contributes to the opening of new markets and has the effect of multiplying national and private initiatives. the legislative amendment will allow interested member states to propose information programmes even in the absence of proposed programmes for third countries. as a result of this amendment, member states will be able to extend the scope of the actions covered by these programmes and also to request the assistance of international organisations for the implementation of these actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 3/2008 on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries (com (2008) 0431 c6-0313/2008 2008/0131 (cns)) because i believe that the public must be properly informed about the agricultural products they consume. i also believe that good promotion of any product can provide useful information to buyers.
in writing. − smes in the european union represent 23 million enterprises (99% of the total) and 75 million jobs (70%) in the union. i voted for mrs muscardini's report because it summarises the strategy essential for their survival in a difficult economic period: political and financial support to stimulate product and process innovation, facilitate access to financial and tax information, internationalise it, take a firm stand in negotiations on trade facilitation procedures, to reduce the cost of customs procedures which account for up to 15% of the value of traded goods, effectively record the origin of goods and keep customs controls up to date. for romania, the internationalisation of smes is a solution in the context of the economic crisis, making a decisive contribution to the survival and development of their activity, which is essential for the creation of new jobs. i welcome the organisation of the 'european sme week' in may 2009 and its main purpose to provide information to smes on their internationalisation.
in writing. − i welcome my colleague's report on the role of the internet in boosting trade. the use of the internet by as many users as possible in the european union requires better regulation of this expanding field. european policies must stimulate online trade as an effective alternative to traditional commerce and as a way of stimulating cross-border trade within the union. a series of measures are needed at community level to remove potential obstacles to better use of the internet for commercial purposes. these are measures to deter and prevent fraud and identity theft. community action should support greater user confidence in the online environment. there is also a need for standardisation at community level regarding online trade. the eu must facilitate the implementation of these standards, thus giving online traders the opportunity to be recognised as trusted suppliers. given the global nature of the internet and the possibility of conducting advantageous trade with third countries, i am hopeful that we will also see progress within the wto towards promoting online trade globally.
in writing. − we voted for this report because it seeks to highlight areas of international trade where the internet has acted as a catalyst, creating new conditions for the development of global trade. it also recognises the need for open standards and their importance for innovation, competition and effective consumer choice. the rapporteur proposes that trade agreements signed by the ec promote the open and widespread use of the internet for electronic commerce, provided that consumers' access to and use of digital services and products is not restricted, unless prohibited by national law. i support the rapporteur's call on the commission to draw up a comprehensive strategy to remove the remaining obstacles to smes using electronic commerce and to create a database designed to provide information support and advice on managing new entrants with no experience in online commerce.
in writing. − the baringdorf report on the placing on the market and use of feed is of great importance for agriculture and the food market in the context of the recent animal feed scandals, animal diseases and the lack of knowledge of the ingredients in the feed, the dioxin scandal, mad cow disease, etc. greater freedom and responsibility will be given to feed business operators, but this means that if a serious contamination problem with toxic substances or harmful feed occurs, this will have a major impact on animal development or the environment. if the manufacturer does not have sufficient financial resources to deal with the problem, even more serious problems can arise. i believe it is necessary, and that is why i voted in favour, that farmers, farmers in general, should be informed accurately about the contents of animal feed, but also be adequately protected against financial, social and economic losses in the event of a disaster.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because romania does not recognise the independence of the province of kosovo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the wortmann-kool report because i support the development of economic relations between the eu and china. this country has experienced tremendous economic growth, becoming one of the world's largest economic players. trade relations between the eu and china have grown enormously in recent years, with europe being china's largest trading partner since 2006 and china ranking second among the eu's trading partners in 2007. today, unprecedented cooperation between the eu and china is needed to address the current financial and economic crisis. i believe that china, as one of the engines of global development, should take full responsibility for ensuring the sustainable and balanced development of the world economy. the eu's trade relations with china should be based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, environmental protection, climate change prevention, fair competition, respect for world trade organisation rules, including human rights. the eu must insist on compliance with consumer protection rules so that european citizens are no longer at risk of buying products that are harmful to health, goods with hidden defects or counterfeit goods.
in writing. − in the context of the global economic and financial crisis, relations between the eu and its main external economic partners are becoming much more important than in the past. economic stability and the sustainability of trade flows involving the union are becoming increasingly relevant to our future security. i voted in favour of mrs wortmann-kool's report on economic and trade relations with china because i believe it is a step forward towards a better formulation of trade relations between the european union and a crucial global partner. the need for this report is highlighted by the harsh reality of the €160 billion trade deficit. but most of the elements of this report are not just complaints by the european union about some aspects of beijing's economic and trade policy, but also suggestions whose implementation will benefit china internally as well as in the perspective of its future development. better regulation and protection of intellectual property, reducing the social and environmental impact of our asian partner's formidable economic growth, reducing counterfeiting and piracy are areas of action in which beijing has already made considerable progress, and whose support in the future will only enhance china's development.
in writing. the recent elections in israel and the new us administration offer the opportunity for a new beginning in the middle east peace process. i believe that the eu must send a clear message of support to the new tel aviv cabinet and at the same time articulate clearly its expectations from israeli partners to pursue measures that facilitate a lasting peace including the closure of west bank settlements and firm support for the two-state solution and the avoidance of military excesses with serious humanitarian repercussions. the eu's approach to the middle east must be based on a number of firm principles. first, a close cooperation with the us, without which we cannot achieve a lasting solution in the region. secondly, our approach must be to avoid as much as possible violence on both sides, condemn palestinian extremism and israeli excesses, and support moderate governance solutions on both sides that can facilitate the peace process. i would like to express my support for the european parliament's resolution voted today, which confirms the eu's commitment to the reconstruction process in gaza and lays the foundations for the discussions to be held in cairo in march at the international donors' conference.
in writing. democracy, peace and respect for human rights are core values of the european union, and it has the role and duty to defend and promote them both within the union and in its relations with other states. the situation of the people of gaza is dramatic and must be resolved without delay. the flagrant violation of human rights and freedoms in the region is a matter of concern to the european union, both from the perspective of its relations with israel and from that of security and stability in the middle east. the european union must take urgent action to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of the gaza strip and, in the medium and long term, must consider actions to promote peace, security and stability in the area. in this context, the union must make greater diplomatic efforts to resolve conflicts and foster dialogue and reconciliation in the region, while firmly and unequivocally sanctioning any anti-democratic attitude or any violation of human rights and freedoms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the role of the european union in the middle east because i agree that we must support the reconstruction plans for the gaza strip. this resolution calls for the immediate provision of increased and unrestricted humanitarian assistance, which is a moral duty, and which must be provided without any conditions or restrictions. the israeli authorities are requested to allow a continuous and adequate flow of humanitarian aid, including all necessary materials for un agencies such as unrwa (united nations relief and works agency) and international organisations to carry out their activities and meet the needs of the population.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 18 february 2009 on humanitarian aid to the gaza strip (b6-0100/2009), as the civilian population is in great need of aid because of the situation created in that area. i believe that an assessment of the needs of the population of the gaza strip should be carried out and that plans for the reconstruction of the area should be initiated.
mr president, the report on nato’s role in the eu’s security architecture reflected different approaches in the european parliament between, on the one hand, opinions which continue to look at nato as the organisation offering the strongest security guarantee to its members, and opinions which, on the contrary, see less and less need for nato in a world in which apparently there are no major threats – at least not comparable to the former soviet one. however, until now there was no member in both organisations willing to give up the nato security guarantee, even if the eu is putting weight behind its defence and security effort and has introduced its equivalent of article 5 of the washington treaty: the solidarity clause in the lisbon treaty. to my mind, the relationship between nato and the eu – the most important component of the larger transatlantic relationship – should be one that is naturally complementary and mutually advantageous to two partners who are compelled to work together in responding to today’s multiplying and increasingly complex challenges. to that effect, existing mechanisms – see the berlin plus agreements – could be improved; new ones – see the proposal for an eu operational headquarters – should be contemplated; obstacles – see the negative impact of the cyprus problem – should be overcome; and, most important, mutual perceptions should be definitely improved. thus, on the one hand, one should stop considering nato as an adversary and, on the other, the eu as an appendix to nato. as mentioned, the truth is that in practice the two partners could very well cooperate with each other, mutually complementing one another. for that, the report has been amended and hopefully the end result has become acceptable to many of us.
madam president, i want to make two points. firstly, on values. the european union is a union of values. these values are criteria for accession. they guide us in our behaviour. they are a means to build interoperability with our external partners. but we should not make the scope of our external policy from exporting our values. on the contrary, we have to learn to operate in a diversified world and even to respect the other’s right to be wrong. secondly, on institutions. the international institutions and international law of today were shaped and created in a completely different world. each day we realise that they are not adapted to the new challenges, new opportunities and new threats of today’s world. i believe, therefore, that the european union should support the idea of a new conference on security and cooperation in europe in a larger europe – from vancouver to shanghai, not only to vladivostok – in order to create a new space of security, of freedom and of cooperation. i think that this should be one of our top priorities, and we should not be afraid that others perhaps have other ideas on that.
i would like to express my appreciation for the three rapporteurs. nato's role in europe's security architecture has proved crucial so far, but it also has real prospects for the 21st century. i believe that the european union and nato should work together, avoiding any possible rivalry. a strong and productive transatlantic relationship can best guarantee peace, security and stability in europe, as well as respect for the principles of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. we are at a historic moment when transatlantic cooperation has become crucial for the simultaneous development of the new european union security strategy and the new nato strategic concept. at the nato summit in bucharest in april 2008, allies appreciated the political role that the european union can play by developing its capacity to act in the field of security and defence. the partnership for peace promoted by nato and the eastern partnership project promoted by the european union are of vital importance for the development of democracy, the rule of law and the transition to a functioning market economy in certain countries in the black sea region.
we have found in the three reports discussed today relevant and useful benchmarks in defining the future policies of the european union as a global actor. i would like to make three comments: firstly, i would like to stress the importance of the transatlantic dimension in the union's foreign policy. we must seize the moment in our relationship with the united states to open a new chapter in it that amplifies our strength globally. secondly, the security dimension of the european union must be coordinated with that of nato, in order to avoid duplication and lack of resources. thirdly, i believe that the union must use the european security and cooperation policy to strengthen stability in the western balkans after the clarification of the status of kosovo. kosovo is now in a state of 'supervised independence', according to the union's special representative, peter faith. even though mr faith rejected the eu's term of protection for kosovo in his recent hearing in the european parliament, he acknowledged that the road to 'full independence' is a long and arduous one. "it would be a miracle if we could complete our mission in two years", mr. faith declared. however, i believe that we need an assessment, a clear time horizon, of the union's involvement in kosovo; i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to develop a study on kosovo, as long as it contributes to the success of the eurex mission.
in writing. the assessment of the role of the nato-eu alliance must start from the recognition that the political landscape of europe, but also of the us, has fundamentally changed in recent times, today, with the european union becoming a legitimate actor of international security. this requires the 'repoliticization' of the alliance, which must become a forum for open dialogue on the major issues in which it is to be involved. a frank transatlantic dialogue, for example, on how to deal with terrorism, is sorely needed precisely because the allies have different perspectives on how to respond to this common challenge. in the context of the increasingly diverse challenges to global security - from inter-ethnic conflicts in the immediate vicinity of allied territory, to global terrorist networks and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction - member states must attach particular importance to the process of reflection and dialogue on this issue and support the reform processes in the alliance, and i am referring in particular to security issues in the immediate neighbourhood, as the alliance can play a key role in building democratic defence and security institutions in the balkans and the wider black sea region.
in writing. we need a common, coherent and up-to-date european security policy that contributes to strengthening the european identity and enables the union to speak with one credible voice internationally. the current reality in which we face major challenges such as the economic crisis, energy security, climate change, migration management, requires cooperation and responsibility on the part of member states to protect common interests, promote peace, security and respect for territorial integration. the union can only have an impact if it speaks with one voice, has the necessary instruments at its disposal and uses them effectively, and strengthens cooperation with its neighbours. we need strategic thinking, active engagement and coherence in global action, as well as regional security and close relations with relevant regional actors. strategic partnerships with our eastern neighbours are necessary and we need to invest in the relationship with russia, applying a strategy consistent with common, mutually beneficial commitments. we need to invest in our neighbours, especially in the east, and give them the incentives they need to continue reforms and be able to strengthen the union's presence in the area. we have new instruments, such as the eastern partnership, which enable us to take a new approach, strengthened and at a higher level with our partners in the region.
in writing. the common security policy is a subject that has been debated many times and written about a great deal. the european union is an increasingly important vector at both regional and global levels. this is why i believe that the european union must be active within its own borders and proactive in every part of the world. after analysing today's three reports: the 2007 annual report on the main aspects and basic options of the cfsp, the european security strategy and the esdp, and the role of nato in the eu's security architecture, i believe that we can draw three conclusions: 1.the european union must have a common security policy capable of supporting both the democracies within its borders and the partnerships with its neighbours. 2. the european union must act as a united whole and needs a rapid reaction force capable of intervening at any time in support of peace, democracy and human rights. 3.the european union must strengthen its position in the world and continue to be a factor of stability and balance between the world's great powers.
in writing. i support the report by mr sariusz wolski, who rightly points out that ensuring energy security for european citizens must become a major priority for the common foreign and security policy. i want to make it very clear: the security of energy supply, and especially the diversification of gas supply sources, will remain a beautiful dream if we do not build the nabucco pipeline. the nabucco project must be taken as a strategic objective by the whole eu. nabucco requires both a serious financial investment and, above all, an effective european foreign and security policy. efficiency requires guarantees of regional stability of the area through which this pipeline will pass. to this end, we must make every effort to give the common foreign and security policy the coherence and effectiveness it so needs to produce tangible results. among other things, i believe that the eu needs a high representative for external energy policy who enjoys strong political support and has the necessary instruments for action. i appreciate that the eu must devote sufficient financial and human resources to its foreign and security policy to achieve the concrete results that european citizens expect from us.
the economic and social development and prosperity of the citizens of the union for the mediterranean must be sustainable. i believe that the newly created union for the mediterranean must also tackle climate change. the euro-mediterranean region is home to some one billion citizens, producing one third of the world's gross domestic product. threats to the environment are the area where regional cooperation is most needed. the increase in population and the decrease in rainfall in this region due to climate change make drinking water one of the main elements at risk in this area. water scarcity, water pollution, lack of sewage treatment plants, black tides resulting from maritime accidents, deforestation and soil erosion must be part of the concerns of the mediterranean partnership. i believe that one of the main values promoted by the union for the mediterranean must be the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, both in terms of adaptation to them and in terms of reducing the causes that contribute to them.
in romania, the autonomy of the szekler islands goes back several centuries. the constitution of the modern romanian state guaranteed the autonomy of the szeklerland region, which existed even in communist times. taking into account the forms of autonomy granted to the countries of the european union, on 8 february 2009 in sepsiszentgyörgy, several thousand people demanded that the president of the republic retract his statements insulting the transylvanian hungarians, ensure ethnic proportional representation in state institutions, stop the controlled settlements, stop the deliberate sabotage of the economy of the szekler republic, expeditiously return the confiscated church and community property, stop the expansion of the militarized units, establish the independent hungarian university with state support, recognize the hungarian language as the official regional language and recognize the collective rights and the territorial autonomy of the szekler republic.
the current economic and financial crisis is a major test for europe, which more than ever needs to be united in taking measures to allow the economy to recover as soon as possible. the member states' budgets are under great pressure to meet these challenges, which is why the best instruments and actions must be found to enable them not to exceed the limits set by the commission for the budget deficit by too much and to avoid protectionist measures by some member states or in favour of private producers. such decisions must be adopted quickly in order to avoid the crisis spreading and, above all, to allow confidence in financial markets to be regained and to avoid the crisis spreading to the political sphere, also in view of the approaching elections to the european parliament. one possible solution for financing public expenditure could be the issuance of eurobonds. but we must also take into account the risk that these measures will lead to excessive debt and that it is difficult to avoid leaving future generations to pay it.
since some hungarian colleagues have recently complained that their rights are not respected in romania, i would like to make a few clarifications. the approach of the election campaign should not give rise to attacks and insults against a state of law which, through its legislation, has provided an example in the field of interethnic relations. respect for minority rights is guaranteed by the constitution of romania. citizens of hungarian nationality are proportionally represented in local administrative structures, with hungarian minority parties having 195 mayors and four county council presidents, 2,684 local councillors and 108 county councillors. having a majority in the above-mentioned local and county councils, they manage local budgets at their will; this means local autonomy. at the parliamentary level, the hungarian minority has three members in the european parliament, 22 deputies and nine senators in the national parliament and has participated in the government of romania for the last twelve years. the complaints we hear are pure political election rhetoric.
the recent history of the european union is full of success stories in protecting minority rights. this is also the case for the hungarian minority in romania. this minority enjoys a variety of rights, including positions in the administration, and these rights have been consistently supported by romanian president traian basescu. however, in other areas, we still have a lot to do and i would like to speak here about the problem of the roma community. this is a test of the european union's ability to integrate groups at high risk of exclusion. the case of the romanian handball player marian cozma, who was brutally murdered by two representatives of the roma community in hungary, shows us once again that crime knows no borders and that ignoring the problems of this community is counterproductive. the situation of this minority, which is inherently transnational and at high risk of exclusion, can only be improved by a concerted policy at european level. in this context, i tabled a resolution with my colleague rareş niculescu on the creation of a european agency for the roma. the union has a roma minority strategy, but it does not have an agency to implement it coherently and effectively. to remain relevant internationally, but also to preserve its internal cohesion, the union must be able to create a tolerant pan-european environment.
i reject the accusations that my colleagues, sógor csaba and tőkés lászló, have brought against romania. romania is a member of the european union, nato, the council of europe, the organization for security and cooperation in europe and respects human rights and the rights of persons belonging to national minorities in line with european standards. romania shall apply, in their letter and spirit, all relevant international treaties in this field. by law, the hungarian language is used in administration in all localities and counties where persons belonging to the hungarian minority represent more than 20% of the population. it's a matter of fact and law. romania offers very wide possibilities for education in the hungarian mother tongue in kindergartens, schools, high schools, vocational schools, colleges, master's and doctoral degrees. in areas where ethnic hungarians live alongside romanians, it is a well-respected rule that hungarian-language sections for all children of hungarian origin should be in operation in schools. and if they have forgotten, the babeş-bolyai university in cluj-napoca has three departments with teaching in romanian, hungarian and german respectively, plus a strong institutional development of hebrew studies, but also special places for roma.
implementation of the energy and climate change package requires significant investment in greenhouse gas emission reduction measures. the building sector is responsible for 40% of primary energy consumption. increasing the energy efficiency of buildings contributes to reducing primary energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. next year, the commission will assess, together with the member states, the operational programmes and the absorption rate of the structural funds in the middle of the period 2007-13. it calls on the member states to review their use of the structural funds, giving priority to energy efficiency of buildings and urban mobility for the period 2010-2013. i call on the european commission and the member states to increase the 3% erdf allocation to each member state for expenditure related to energy efficiency improvements in buildings and the use of renewable energy to 15%. this increase will give member states greater flexibility in using the structural funds, accelerating their absorption, especially in this period of economic crisis.
mr president, a large coalition government was set up in romania after the elections in november of last year, with a parliamentary share of 73% in the two houses of the romanian parliament. one of the first measures taken by this coalition was to work out a scheme to divide among themselves the leading positions of state-controlled public institutions and the public administration of romania. this is an unacceptable situation for two reasons. firstly, it leads to renewed partisanship in state administration, which contravenes the law on the public servants’ statute. secondly, in the regions where the hungarian population forms a large majority, the measure has an anti-minority facet as well: ethnic hungarian public servants are being replaced by ethnic romanian persons. on 8 february, a public gathering in sfântu gheorghe/sepsiszentgyörgy, romania, was attended by more than 3 000 people protesting against the political games of the romanian parties and requesting that the hungarian communities’ rights be respected.
mr president, regarding the report on patients’ rights in cross-border health care, i would like to emphasise the issue of the right of patients to be informed about the available medication and treatment options. european patients should have access to quality health information regarding the latest medication available, the treatment options home and abroad, the legal and financial implications of being treated abroad, the reimbursement of the treatment costs and many other areas. for the moment we do not have this type of quality information. we may have some national initiatives, but nothing that could be effective at european level. the problems we face are european. i therefore support the idea of setting up a european health literacy network. such a network should consist of patients’ organisations from all the member states and should work closely with the health sector and the policymakers. in the hope of making the commission aware of the need to better inform the 150 million european patients, i have initiated a written declaration on health literacy. we have all been patients at some point, and we never know when it will happen again.
today and tomorrow you will meet here some young students from the republic of moldova. they come to the european parliament because they can't speak at home, or they can speak but they endure the repression. all the reports from the european commission, our hearings in the human rights commission, as well as reports from civil society in moldova show us that freedom of expression is often violated and that the media cannot be independent. dozens of young people who used online forums to express their opinions were investigated and threatened with criminal charges in 2008. please look at them, invite them into your offices and listen to them and sign the written declaration no. 13/2009 which was created for them, to give them freedom of expression, for this generation on the eastern border of our united europe.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument has made a significant contribution to the development of relations with the neighbouring countries of the european union. one funding opportunity is the neighbourhood investment fund, to which eu member states can contribute with donations in addition to the amount allocated from the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. we are aware that in this study the funding from the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is not sufficient to meet the ambitious objectives for this area. we ask the european commission to consider allocating more substantial amounts to this instrument in the future, especially in the context of the need to support it with adequate funding and initiatives such as the black sea synergy. romania has supported and will continue to support the relevance of the black sea region to the european union, based on the region's obvious values for stability, economic development, energy security, citizens' safety and environmental protection.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument can and must be used more in the black sea region. i appreciate the positive synergy in the black sea, but i believe that this region is of particular geostrategic importance and deserves a more structured cooperation framework, on the model of the nordic dimension or the union for the mediterranean. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument should further contribute to the development of transport links between the european union and the black sea, and between the european union and the republic of moldova and ukraine. romania wants to develop more cooperation programmes between romanian cities and moldovan cities. i welcome the launch of the ciudad programme which promotes the development of dialogue between cities. the development of community ports on the black sea, the construction of liquefied gas terminals and the development of rail and road links between the black sea countries and the member states should be among the priorities for which this instrument will be used. i also believe that this instrument should also be used for cooperation in the energy sector, for the extension and integration of the electricity transmission infrastructure to the western balkans region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we draw up a policy for the neighbouring countries of the european union, we must not ignore the democratic deficit in those countries. it's a democratic deficit that comes from their history. well, to establish a democratic society, we need a democratic conscience of every citizen of these countries. the report speaks - and rightly so - of people-to-people contacts, and i would like to ask you what better way to establish these people-to-people contacts than to allow the citizens of these countries to travel freely to the european union. i therefore call on the council to allow the citizens of the republic of moldova, which is the only country to share an official language of the european union, to travel visa-free to the european union. of course, pending such a measure, i would ask the commission to do everything necessary to make the common visa centre in chisinau functional. we really need to set an example.
over the past half year, the european union has faced a number of challenges that have raised questions about its role, its cohesion and its capacity to act and react. the georgian crisis and the gas crisis have shown us that we can continue to face threats from the east to international stability and our energy security. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy, and the establishment of a common security policy. but i think we need to pay more attention to the situation in moldova, where there are worrying signs about freedom of expression and the fairness of the elections due to take place this spring.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is of fundamental importance for the success of the european neighbourhood policy and, in particular, the eastern partnership and cooperation in the black sea region. the eastern partnership project can only succeed if it has the necessary funding to achieve clear objectives. we also need to improve the mechanisms for assessing the impact of the actions and funding that the eastern partnership involves, so that european assistance is not misused and misused by some governments against the political opposition. our actions must always be designed so that the citizens can see the tangible benefits. i believe that european funding provided through the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument should give priority to measures aimed at cross-border cooperation in the eastern partnership area. cross-border cooperation has a proven vocation to make a decisive contribution to both regional development and to building trust between neighbouring states and inter-ethnic harmony, and facilitating cross-border movement of people and economic flows can have particularly beneficial multiplier effects.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is essential for ensuring stability, democracy and prosperity in the region. moreover, this instrument transforms the notion of frontier, a space of limitation, of exclusion, into a space of cooperation and political links. the recent events in the eastern bloc, which have been mentioned here before - i am now referring to the gas crisis or the crisis in georgia - have once again demonstrated the need for a strategy that can ensure an active role for the european union in this geopolitical area. we need a more coherent approach to the eastern bloc, we need clear objectives that correspond both to the interests of the union and to the specific needs of our partners. i fully appreciate initiatives such as the black sea synergy and the eastern partnership, which strengthen cooperation with the countries of the region, in particular the republic of moldova and ukraine, but also with the states of the caucasus and the caspian region. we also need a stronger involvement in the black sea area, a basis for strengthening relations with turkey and russia, because this area is in the neighbourhood of the european union, turkey and russia. the partnership is also a welcome stimulus for participating countries that would like to apply for eu membership, such as the republic of moldova. this partnership significantly deepens the level of engagement on both sides. i would also like to talk a little about the euronest initiative, which is just one example of a concrete solution for better implementation of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument in countries such as armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus. better implementation of this policy cannot be achieved without increasing the level of financial assistance. in addition to the need to increase this financial package, we must also pay equal attention to how these funds are spent. i believe it is imperative to ensure transparency in the financial allocation mechanisms and also believe that resources should be allocated to involving civil society in partner countries in joint projects and to supporting the mobility of citizens of these countries, including by facilitating visa arrangements.
in writing. i fully support the report's provisions on deepening the eu's political engagement with the countries concerned by the ipev and the prospect of concluding association agreements that take account of the specificities of each country. for the effective implementation of this policy, the targeted states must fully engage in the process of democratic reform of society. the effective implementation of reforms, especially in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression, remains a serious challenge for these states and depends both on the political will of their authorities and the level of engagement of civil society and citizens. it is important that the people of these countries understand that european integration offers more than just the possibility of legal emigration, that it is a real chance for the country to break out of the impasse. in this context, european projects must provide for more concrete clauses and special funds for training the population. familiarising the population with both the benefits of integration and the commitments of eu membership will make it more actively involved in the process of democratizing society and considerably reduce the constraints imposed on opposition political parties and civil society by the ruling elites.
the report by our colleague mr berman offers a clear solution to the problem of closing the loophole in the legislative framework for financing external actions which are not urgent and which do not fall within the category of development actions as defined by the development cooperation instrument. the financing of such actions is politically important, as it can ensure the continuity of the european union's presence in countries and regions that have already moved beyond their initial stage of development. it is, however, extremely important that the funds used to finance these actions do not come from development sources but from different budget lines. the aim of the legislative proposal requested by this report is to encourage development, not to limit it by reducing the funds available for development policies in favour of other measures, and it is therefore essential that the distinction between the actions covered by the scope of the development cooperation instrument and those covered by the new legislative provision be reflected in the definition of the funds to finance them.
2009 is the year of creativity and innovation. the establishment of a european research infrastructure operating on a non-commercial basis contributes to the efficiency of community research programmes and to the dissemination and optimisation of results in technological and demonstration research and development at community level. i welcome the fact that these infrastructures can receive co-financing through the financial instruments of cohesion policy, in accordance with the regulations on the european regional development fund, the social fund and the cohesion fund. i would like to stress that it is extremely important that these infrastructures link research institutes and structures, universities, academia and the private sector, and that they benefit the use of research results by industrial areas. but i would like to mention that, especially in this period of crisis, we must ensure that at least 1% of the gross domestic product of a member state is devoted to research.
the idea of a common european research area and a community legal framework for european research infrastructures was the basic principle for achieving the lisbon strategy objectives of growth, job creation and a dynamic knowledge-based economy. research infrastructures play an increasingly important role in the advancement of knowledge and technology, due to their ability to pool human resources and investments in order to reach critical mass, thus making a decisive contribution to european economic development. we set out to ensure competitive research funding, adequate infrastructure and intellectual property rules, and effective mobility for researchers, in the desire to make the european union a partner in cutting-edge international research. today, with the proposal for a regulation on the community legal framework for european research infrastructures, we are consolidating the creation of the fifth freedom in europe: the free movement of knowledge. the current regulation will be the pillar of the development of european research, with the european research infrastructure guaranteeing scientific excellence in community research and the competitiveness of the community economy, based on medium and long-term forecasts and by effectively supporting european research activities. in the context of the current economic crisis, the swift application of this regulation, combined with the encouragement and facilitation of investment in research and development, the establishment of common standards in the field of knowledge and the modernisation of national education systems, will be real solutions to overcome it. i believe that we need to pay greater attention at this point to the differences in the development of innovation and research infrastructure between developed and developing economies so as not to create major migrations of researchers from the economies of the newly acceded states to the member states whose economies are at the top of the world economy. a homogeneous distribution of these infrastructures within the european union, and at the same time of research opportunities, would benefit the whole union and help to combat the migration of scientists from the east to the west. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs riera madurell, and my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy for their contribution to the report.
in writing. in times of economic downturn, the temptation is to cut back on research funds. but i am glad that by discussing this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the community legal framework for european research infrastructures we are sending an important signal that research remains a priority for the european union. i am convinced that by establishing this institutional framework to support research activity we will see results that support the european economy. because research is not a whim, but a necessity to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy on a global scale. i want to emphasize one very important aspect where research can play an important role. in the next 25 years, urbanization is projected to take nearly 25 percent of the land out of the agricultural cycle. to compensate for the reduced acreage, we need higher productivity on smaller acreages, with less water or pesticide use. the solutions can come through research, through biotechnology, with, of course, the principle of food safety in mind. this is one more reason to support research more and to ensure a unified framework at european level.
in writing. i welcome the report on the establishment of the legal framework for the european research infrastructure (eri) and the commission's proposal for a regulation in this area. the iec is a response to a real need of european researchers and will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the competitiveness of european science. one of the important elements of this regulation is the possibility for the european community to participate in an iec-type entity. this gives the community the capacity to participate in and guide transeuropean research policies. in this context, i would ask the european commission to consider three elements when providing financial support to the eic: 1) the exclusive participation of the community in projects with very high scientific potential2) encouraging the establishment of jets in regions which have traditionally been victims of intra- and extra-community 'brain-drain'3) facilitating access to jets for private sector companies. community policies in this area must combine scientific excellence with the creation of an influx of researchers and high-performing infrastructures to countries such as the new eu members in the 2004 and 2007 accession waves.
in writing. the report by teresa riera madurell is of particular importance as it creates the legal framework necessary for the development of research infrastructures. the establishment of european research infrastructures is a guarantee that research will be carried out at a high level. in addition, it will create new opportunities for closer collaboration between european research teams, which can be joined by a large number of students and technical staff, thus helping to attract young people to cutting-edge research. this legal framework should also ensure better cooperation between industry and academic research in order to facilitate the implementation of innovations. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should regularly inform the european parliament of the state of play of european research infrastructures. the cost of setting up large-scale research infrastructures requires the combined efforts of several countries. the development of a common legal framework is essential to facilitate and accelerate the development of these infrastructures.
in writing. it is our duty to ensure that we are the ones who build a better future, not just for europeans, but for those in the developing world. children are the future and we must ensure that their rights are present and respected in third countries receiving european funding. it is a priority for the european union to ensure that children's right to education and access to healthcare is guaranteed in its relations with third countries. it is true that we are going through a period of financial crisis, but we cannot ignore the fact that globally, every three seconds, a child dies and every minute, a woman ends her life by giving birth. given that half the world's population is made up of children, it is necessary to consider children's rights as a priority of the european union's development policy. each member state, to the extent possible, should engage in policies of cooperation with developing countries, and the european commission should press developing countries to transpose the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of the child into national law.
in writing. the implementation of directive 2002/14/ec establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the european community is experiencing considerable delays in certain member states. i believe that the democratic involvement of workers in decision-making affecting the enterprise must be strengthened in view of the global nature of the current financial crisis which affects member states without distinction in their economic network and generates fears about restructuring, mergers or relocations. i ask that in the case of company restructuring, european funds be made available for the assistance of workers, not just of companies. i also think that it should be made compulsory that when a multinational company is restructuring, trade union representatives from all the subsidiaries of that company, not just those in the member state where the company has its head office, should be invited to negotiations and consulted. considers it important to update the legislation on workers' rights to information and consultation regularly and to include this issue on the agenda of the european social dialogue, both at inter-professional and sectoral level.
in writing. the social economy can play a key role in the european economy, forcing a new kind of economy, based on democratic values, putting people first and supporting sustainable development. however, the social economy faces a very big obstacle: the lack of institutional visibility, caused by the fact that it is not recognized as an economic area separate from the two: public and private. we call on the commission and the member states to develop a legal framework that recognises the social economy as a third sector, to impose rules that clearly define which entities can operate in this sector, so that no other type of organisation can benefit from funding or public policies designed to encourage social economy enterprises. we also call on the commission and the member states to provide financial support, training and advice and to simplify the procedures for setting up social enterprises. in this way, the social economy will effectively fulfil its role in the overall context of the european economy by helping not only to combat poverty but also by facilitating access to the resources, rights and services needed by citizens to participate in society.
in writing. the social economy ensures job stability by not being subject to the phenomenon of delocalisation. i believe that the european union and the member states should encourage and support forms of implementation of the social economy - cooperatives, mutual societies, associations and foundations - in their legislation and policies. it is important that a range of measures aimed at developing microcredit as well as tailored european financing be developed, as the values of the social economy correspond to european social integration objectives and contribute to reconciling work and private life, to improving gender equality, the quality of life of the elderly or the disabled. i believe that the role of women in the social economy needs to be strengthened in view of their involvement in associations and volunteering. i ask the commission to integrate the social economy into other policies and strategies for social and economic development, in particular in the context of the small business act, as the structures of the social economy are primarily aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and services of general interest. these efforts could also be supported by the creation of a statistical register of enterprises in the social economy in each member state of the european union and the input of data into the european statistical system eurostat.
in writing. mental health and well-being is a major challenge of the 21st century, with the world health organization estimating that mental disorders will account for 15% of all diseases by 2020. i am particularly concerned about the future of adolescents and children, which is why i have proposed raising awareness of the deteriorating mental health situation of children of immigrant parents and introducing programmes in schools to help these young people cope with the psychological problems of parental absence. i emphasized this because of the high number of children abandoned by parents who have gone abroad to work, a phenomenon that is becoming more common in central and eastern europe. also in support of young people, i proposed promoting the establishment of counseling positions in every high school and providing alternatives that are confidential and non-stigmatizing to address their socio-emotional needs. given that mental health determines the quality of life of citizens in the european union, it must be treated as seriously as physical health and a european action plan in this regard is needed to address the challenges posed by mental disorders.
in writing. energy efficiency is all the more important today as we face real challenges in the eu's energy supply and as we need to make more substantial efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. i support an approach to energy efficiency that is consistent with other eu policies, in particular the climate change package and the imperative to diversify energy sources. i strongly believe that the r & d sector should be supported as it can make a significant contribution to increasing energy efficiency. the commission and the uk governments should give greater support to projects to increase energy efficiency, whether it be investments in energy-efficient public transport, building insulation, etc. i think that government resources should be channelled in this direction rather than subsidizing the price of energy, because these projects also support consumers who are vulnerable to rising energy prices. i therefore ask the honourable member to come up with effective and realistic action plans, to inform citizens as much as possible about energy efficiency and to cooperate through exchanges of good practice, and the commission to support the national authorities, in particular through technical assistance.
in writing. energy efficiency of buildings is a particularly relevant concern for countries that have inherited a large number of low-standard buildings from the communist period. i call on the commission to establish effective funding instruments and procedures for the thermal rehabilitation of these buildings, in line with the target of increasing energy efficiency in the eu by 20% by 2020.
in writing. energy efficiency is one of the major objectives of the european union, and its achievement is an important step towards achieving sustainable development. therefore, alongside the effort of member states to actively engage in promoting energy efficiency policies, there must also be coordination at community level to achieve much better results. one way to achieve energy efficiency is to insulate homes. a study shows that at community level it is possible to reduce energy losses by about 27%, which implies a reduction in the costs borne by citizens. one problem faced by local communities undertaking a housing rehabilitation project is the complex process they have to follow. future measures should therefore take into account the simplification of those procedures. the energy efficiency of buildings by insulating them must also be targeted at the most disadvantaged social groups and thus lead to a strengthening of the principle of solidarity in europe.
last year the commission proposed an economic recovery plan which is proving very difficult to implement. member states and their governments need to be proactive, especially in times of crisis. member states may apply reduced vat rates to supplies of natural gas, electricity and heating or cooling, children's clothing and footwear, books, newspapers and periodicals, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment for disabled persons, and restaurant services. it just takes vision and political will. the building sector is the sector with the largest number of jobs. i strongly support the need to allow member states to apply reduced vat rates for renovation and repair works aimed at increasing energy savings and energy efficiency. as rapporteur for the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings, i have even proposed reduced vat rates for energy efficiency and renewable energy products. i support the rapporteur's proposal and believe that this measure is particularly important, especially in this period of crisis.
in writing. the european commission adopted in july 2008 a proposal on the application of reduced vat rates after 2010. the sectors concerned are in particular the so-called labour-intensive services and services provided locally to local consumers (services related to the construction/energy renovation of dwellings, personal care and catering sectors). the proposal is also part of the small business act, which aims to stimulate the more than 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu to grow the economy and create new jobs. i support this report because carefully targeted low vat rates offer specific advantages as a means of creating a tax regime that promotes jobs, increases productivity and reduces the underground economy, especially in the current context of the financial crisis. i ask the commission to monitor closely the application of these reduced vat rates in the member states in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. congratulations to the reporter!
in writing. − by my vote in favour, i support the revision of the rules of procedure on the petitioning process as i believe that it brings about procedural improvements in the evaluation and classification of petitions. the new regulation will make petitions easier to process, thus promoting the interests of citizens. one of the important changes to the petitioning process is the emphasis on the private or confidential nature of the petition. private refers to the name and personal details of the petitioner and confidential refers to the subject matter of the petition. under the new rules, the removal of the private or confidential character, or both, is left to the discretion of the petitioner. i also consider it very important to declare petitions admissible by qualified majority, since the right to petition is a fundamental right of citizens, which is based on primary legislation and should not be restricted by a politically motivated decision. under the revised regulation, if the committee responsible fails to reach a consensus on the admissibility of a petition, it is declared admissible at the request of at least one quarter of the committee members.
in writing. − research infrastructures are playing an increasingly important role in the advancement of knowledge and technology by offering unique research services to users in different countries. it can be considered extremely important that they, by unlocking the research potential of all eu regions, will attract young people to science, thus playing a key role in building an effective research and innovation environment. in the less developed countries, however - and i am thinking here of romania - the limited resources and the complexity of technical and organisational aspects represent a major difficulty in creating european research infrastructures, and so, as these structures will only be able to develop in developed countries, we must ensure that we do not witness a new brain-drain towards these centres from within the european union.
in writing. − who statistics say that currently 450 million people experience a mental, behavioural or psychological health problem, representing 12% of the world's population. it is also said that by the year 2010, depression will become the most common disease of modern society. for example, in romania, in just one hospital, the clinical hospital of psychiatry dr. alexandru obregia, over 22,000 admissions were recorded in 2008, most of them for depression and schizophrenia. those vulnerable and marginalized groups, such as the unemployed and immigrants, but also people with disabilities or people who have suffered abuse are more prone to depression in the context of the economic crisis. all countries face a shortage of medical personnel to treat patients with mental illnesses, with the average in poor countries being 0.05 psychiatrists per 100,000 people. the problem is accentuated in many countries by the migration of specialized medical personnel. i think we will have to deal with the mental health of people in the first place with less superficiality and that all member states have to have concerted programmes to limit by all means the spread of this phenomenon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative on the creation of a european professional card for service providers, which is a new step in ensuring the free movement of persons and services. we need to encourage labour migration and facilitate, as far as possible, the mobility of professionals by speeding up the exchange of information between the home and host member states. statistics on complaints received by solvit in 2007 show that 20% of them concerned the recognition of the professional qualifications required for the exercise of a regulated profession. the existence of a european professional card for service providers will remove some of the obstacles still faced by european citizens wishing to work in a country other than their own. in addition, the information contained in this professional card will be of assistance to employers and consumers alike and will also be an advantage for unregulated and non-harmonised professions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european audiovisual observatory is the only pan-european public service organisation dedicated to gathering and distributing information on the european audiovisual industry. it plays a vital role by providing detailed information on the sector to both public and private bodies in the field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft report on community participation in the european audiovisual observatory, a project supported by the epp-ed group, for several reasons. firstly, i believe it is essential to have as much transparency as possible in the audiovisual market, to ensure that as many institutions as possible have access to relevant information in this field. only then can we have real competition and meet the growth targets set by the lisbon strategy. secondly, i think it is important that the observatory brings together both eu member states and european countries outside the community, which is an important factor of cohesion at the level of all european countries. in this way, we are not only connecting the continent, but also facilitating the free movement of goods and services in the audiovisual sector, considerably expanding the market profile. however, to increase the observatory's efficiency, we must take account of the emergence and development of new technologies. i personally support the implementation of the provisions extending the observatory's scope of activity to cover the field more fully and to provide more valuable information, useful both from an economic perspective and for understanding the european social and cultural context.
in writing. − the directive which has just been voted represents a further step in the development and application of common rules and measures necessary to regulate the situation of immigrants, in particular third-country nationals employed illegally in the european union. the prospect of a better standard of living, generated by the possibility of finding a job, is one of the key factors encouraging illegal immigration. at the same time, the benefits to employers have the consequence of losing public funding and distorting competition in the economic sector, depriving illegal workers of social security and pension rights. that is why this directive concerns immigration policy and the sanctions are aimed at the employer and not at the third-country national. particular attention should also be paid to nationals of the new member states who, despite their status as european citizens, are still subject to transnational employment contracts, thus limiting their free access to the labour market of the old member states. measures such as the obligation for employers to examine the residence permits of third-country workers, as well as financial and criminal sanctions for employers, underline the efforts of the community and the member states to coordinate immigration and illegal labour policies. and in the context of the european union facing a sharp demographic decline, we must bear in mind that the solution is not to expel but to regulate the situation of these workers. it is with this hope that i voted for this report.
in writing. − it is well known that visa policies and strict immigration rules have never succeeded in curbing illegal migration, but have only helped to develop networks of illegal immigrant trafficking. the proposal to sanction employers who use illegal nationals is timely, but we must be careful not to make it ineffective, as the reasons why people immigrate remain the same whether or not sanctions are introduced against employers, and the proposed controls will force undocumented immigrants to choose even worse jobs with even lower wages, especially in the current economic crisis. it is clear that these measures represent only a partial and incomplete solution to illegal immigration and black labor. it is necessary that eu countries start now to have a coherent and common policy on illegal immigration.
in writing. − simplifying the issue, illegal immigrants exist for two reasons: the precarious situation in the country of origin and the demand in the labour market in other countries. if for the first problem we have the development funds and cooperation programmes supported by the eu (obviously still insufficient), for the second situation the problem has been treated differently at member state level so far. but there is a need for uniform provisions at community level to penalise employers, as this is often a transnational phenomenon, with networks of traffickers of live meat taking advantage of the vulnerability of illegal immigrants. i am glad that the problem of employers profiting from illegal immigrants has been brought to the attention of the european parliament and i am convinced that the application of this directive will improve the practice of hiring in the community. whereas previously, state policies have focused more on how to prevent illegal immigrants from entering the labor market, this time we are tackling the root of the problem. at the same time, however, this report should not be interpreted as closing the union's borders. on the contrary, we must keep the borders of the labour market open, provided that the flow of workers is legal and adapted to the needs of the state concerned.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on plant statistics contains a number of additions necessary for better application of the new provisions. statistics play a crucial role in community policy-making because they provide an accurate picture of supply and demand in the market and this information supports the achievement of economic equilibrium. at the same time, uniform regulations at european level should not become a bureaucratic burden, but should ensure a constant exchange of information between member states in a simple and efficient manner. the commission's proposal and the additions proposed by the rapporteur are therefore welcome, as they represent a new step in the creation of a flexible, simple and consistent legal framework with the union's principles. the impact of these regulations on european agriculture will result in a greater capacity to respond to problems that may arise on the market, such as overproduction that can lead to falling prices.
in writing. − as i stated in support of the report on the promotion of agricultural products on the community market and in third countries, wine is one of the community products with a dominant position on the global market and which must play a central role in the european trade strategy. however, for the better promotion of wine varieties, both the classic ones and those referred to in this report, we need simple, flexible regulations that are consistent with the european principles of quality promotion. at the same time, better cooperation is needed between member states, the european institutions, producers and producer and distributor organisations. i welcome the european commission's proposal and the report presented by our colleague, mr józsef szájer, because we will have a uniform and simplified regulation on the definition, description and presentation of aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-based cocktails. these are globally recognised products and, through the new provisions, we will be able to better position them on the market, supporting community producers and distributors.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the alleged activities of the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in some european countries, because the purpose of this resolution is unfounded. first, i would point out that, from a procedural point of view, the political groups which signed that resolution should have waited for the replies of the national parliaments to president pöttering's letter of 9 february 2009 requesting details of the steps taken by the member states following the resolution of february 2007 on this subject. secondly, it is completely ineffective to stumble again into suspicion and accusation against some member states, prompted by president obama's executive order of january 2009 calling for the closure of the guantanamo bay detention center within a year. as regards romania, commissioner barrot mentioned in his speech at the last plenary session that he had followed closely the steps taken by the romanian authorities in this investigation. i believe that romania has shown its willingness to cooperate and has made available to the commission and the european parliament all the necessary information and all the results of the investigations carried out in this matter.
in writing. - i would like to reiterate my disagreement with the resolution on the alleged activities of the cia in connection with the transport and illegal detention of suspected terrorists in european countries, as i did at the strasbourg session on 2-5 february. the accusations against romania that it participated in the transfer of terror suspects are unfounded and it is unacceptable that romania's name is being circulated for free in the context of the debate on alleged cia prisons. so far, we've been offered nothing but accusations for which no credible evidence has been produced. and the martin report is the best example of this approach, because the accusations it makes against romania are as controversial as they are baseless. i believe that the argumentation of such serious allegations is part of the same commitment of european governments to respect and promote the fundamental freedoms, rights and values of the european union, in whose name the draft resolution was initiated.
in writing. - i congratulate the president of afet, mr saryusz-wolski, on the excellent report he has presented. i think we should pay special attention to the eastern partnership. in my view, the eastern partnership must have a clear institutional structure, with a parliamentary dimension, an intergovernmental dimension, technical bodies and adequate funding. as regards the intergovernmental dimension, i believe that there is a need to establish a clear timetable for meetings at ministerial level between the representatives of the 27 member states and their eastern counterparts. of course, in the case of belarus, the decision of the eu council to resume negotiations with both the government in minsk and all the democratic forces in that country must be supported. the authoritarian regime in belarus must understand that the eu strongly conditions any cooperation with the need to respect democratic principles and human rights. i appreciate that the parliamentary dimension of the eastern partnership is important to ensure the democratic legitimacy of this project. the meetings of the next parliamentary assembly must help to ensure that this project is taken up by both the parties in power and the opposition forces, which can represent the alternative to government, in accordance with democratic logic.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 'annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic options of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in 2007, presented to the european parliament under point g.43 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006' in support of peace, human dignity, human rights, democracy, multilateralism and the rule of law.
in writing. − i welcome the report on the ess and pesa, which contains relevant and useful benchmarks in defining the future policies of the european union as a global actor. i would point out here the need to coordinate the security dimension of the european union with the security dimension of nato in order to avoid duplication and waste of resources. in this context, i welcome the council's initiative to form an informal eu-nato high-level group. the relationship with russia also needs to be reassessed in the context of recent events in this area. in order to promote stability in its eastern neighbourhood and minimise the impact on member states, the union must adopt a firm policy towards russia, which is formulated in close cooperation with the transatlantic partners and includes the relevant multilateral organisations, including the osce. this objective is also closely linked to the imperative of securing europe's energy supply, which can only be achieved if we act together through concrete projects to diversify energy sources.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 'european security strategy and pesa' because i believe that the european union must develop its strategic autonomy through a strong and effective security and defence policy. i also believe that the european union must be able to guarantee its own security as well as that of its neighbours.
in writing. − in security and defence, the european union's actions as a global actor have been embodied in conflict prevention interventions, giving it the status of the world's leading peace promoter. if the end of the cold war era called into question nato's role, new security threats and the progress made by europeans in defence and in conducting civil-military operations in different parts of the world demonstrate the need for a new configuration of eu-nato cooperation. in this context, the lack of a common european foreign policy, as well as disparities between member states in military funding and technological capabilities, make nato an indispensable partner in the field of military crisis management. the so-called division of labour - pesa supporting civilian operations and nato ensuring the rapid deployment of large military forces - should ensure complementarity rather than competition between the two bodies. the rapporteur's proposal to create an eu operational headquarters could therefore serve this very purpose by complementing the existing nato command structures in the field of joint civil-military operations. we must also take account of the situation in eastern europe in future eu-nato relations, and in this context it is important to promote an open door policy and to support a constructive dialogue with russia on collective security in this part of europe.
in writing. - i welcome the vattanen report as a realistic assessment of european security. while we want a european security policy that is well-designed and able to respond to the security needs of all eu members, we must accept that there is already a security structure that forms the centre of gravity of the defence of most eu states, and that is nato. i would like to stress, however, the importance of using the comparative advantages of the two entities to develop a coherent humanitarian intervention policy. whatever the terms of the union's security strategy, the eu's 'mosaic' will allow us to intervene in complex areas where diplomacy or limited intervention is only possible because of the union's unrivalled ability to nuance. similarly, in nato we have a solid alliance with proven mechanisms, which we europeans must not fail to call upon to alleviate the suffering that some conflicting forces cause with impunity. the european union's operational command may be a first step towards this coagulation. whatever the specific policies that will guide our external action, we welcome close transatlantic cooperation as the most practical solution to these challenges, but also as the embodiment of our shared values.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'nato's role in the eu's security architecture' because i believe that a dynamic and strong transatlantic relationship is a guarantor of stability and security in europe. in my view, a strong eu-nato link contributes substantially to the european union's raison d'être, which lies in building peace both throughout its territory and beyond its borders.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy is a key instrument for ensuring stability in the eastern region, and recent events in the region, such as the georgian crisis and the gas crisis, have once again demonstrated the need for the eu to have a strategy that ensures it plays an active role in this area. i support this report because it highlights the importance of initiatives such as the black sea synergy and the eastern partnership. they have a particular merit in strengthening cooperation with the countries of the region, in particular ukraine and the republic of moldova, but also with the states of the caucasus and the caspian region. i also note that a good implementation of the enp cannot be achieved without increasing the level of financial assistance to programmes financed through the enp and ensuring a greater degree of transparency in the allocation of funds. more of these resources should also be allocated to involving civil society in partner countries in joint projects and to supporting the mobility of their citizens. the eip can become more effective by bringing citizens of partner countries closer together and stimulating the process of europeanisation at all levels. i therefore support the removal of obstacles to the free movement of persons from these countries, in particular by facilitating the visa regime for these countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft decision since it takes into account the ep’s demands and clearly allocates administrative and political responsibilities to the office and the commission, unlike the previous decision dating from 2000.
mr president, the international, political, military, economic and financial architecture is under pressure due to the current crisis. the eu is a central part of this architecture. it appeared as the only formula for europe to preserve its role in the bipolar world. it enlarged successfully to reunite the continent at the end of the cold war, and now it is called upon to preserve previous achievements and continue integration once better times come again. it is not an easy task, particularly for the current presidency, but also for the coming ones, which will have to deal with the continuing institutional impasse over the lisbon treaty and transition to a new parliament and commission, while fighting protectionist tendencies, threats to renationalise common policies and potential international crises in our neighbourhood. the eu is therefore at a crucial moment. it can either make it or break it. our success will depend on complete understanding that solidarity is the only way in which we can face off all these great challenges and continue our odyssey in world affairs.
following the parliamentary elections in romania, the political parties representing the opposition are currently facing a difficult situation. thus, the ruling parties try to isolate and even remove them from local political and administrative life. the substitution of political accountability for local government in the context of the current economic crisis is a lack of accountability on the part of the government. as a result, there is a risk that the pace of completion of projects dedicated to local communities will slow down. the democratic credibility of the current government can be questioned in the case of the two councillors of the local council of the municipality of brasov, vasile bran and iulian mara, who were elected by the vote of the citizens and whose situation was not regulated eight months after the local elections. vasile bran was invalidated unjustifiably by the decision of the local council, and iulian mara could not take the oath because the decision by which the position was validated was attacked in administrative litigation by the institution of the prefect of the braşov county. as a result of the concern of the representatives of the governors to seize the functions of local administration, disregarding the will of the citizens, the law was violated and the two councillors were replaced with two other people, according to the good will of the majority. i think the current government must be aware that obtaining a majority does not mean disregarding the law; such abusive cases must stop, the law must be enforced, and the vote of the citizens must not be invalidated by the tyranny of the majority.
european values are particularly important for the romanian education system. the election speeches of our colleagues tőkés lászló, sógor csaba, winkler iulius are sometimes out of touch with reality. in romania, education in the mother tongue for ethnic minorities is widely available. i would like to highlight the importance of the babeş-bolyai state university in cluj-napoca for hungarian language education. the system of multicultural organization, installed by the 1995 charter of the babeş-bolyai university, ensures complete and autonomous education in romanian, hungarian, german, and jewish studies, at all levels of academic qualification. a number of symbols and inscriptions in hungarian and german are present in the babeş-bolyai university. seventeen faculties currently offer programmes in romanian and hungarian, and eleven faculties in romanian and german. there are also two faculties, reformed theology and roman catholic theology, in which the study programmes are conducted exclusively in hungarian.
statistics show that a quarter of the children in the european union are affected by a sedentary lifestyle and an unhealthy diet. this increases the risk of developing high blood pressure, diabetes, and other diseases. the european parliament adopted the report on the role of sport in education in 2007. thus, it was established that at least three hours of sport per week should be included in educational programmes. we know that physical education prepares children for a healthy lifestyle, instilling important social values such as self-discipline, solidarity, team spirit and sportsmanship. that is why i ask the european commission to follow more closely the transposition into national legislation and the compliance with the obligation of a minimum of three hours of physical education per week in schools and the increase in the number of sports halls and the improvement of their material base.
i have spoken out on behalf of traditional national minorities on several occasions. i had colleagues who accused me of nationalism. it's funny how the majority often tries to cover up their fear, their hostility to minorities, by accusing minorities of nationalism, of hate speech. i hope you won't mind my colleagues if i speak for a religious minority. the romanian greek catholic church was banned during the communist era. it was reorganized after 90 and still tries to recover its confiscated properties, similar to other historical churches. there is a law being drafted in romania that, if passed, will effectively take away the properties of this church that are in the process of being returned. i'd like to call attention to the complexity of the situation, the law enforcement, the attempted nationalization. it is impermissible for the state to interfere in the life of the church at the expense of the church.
i would first like to thank our colleague, mr surján, for his work and, precisely because we are debating the 2010 budget, the guidelines, we are debating politically, practically, i would like to underline a few things. there is an essential element for the smooth running of the european union which must be integrated into the budget lines for 2010; in my opinion, in our opinion, in romania's opinion, this is the nabucco project. this winter, as we all know, the european union had the rather unpleasant experience of being largely without gas. furthermore, it is not just gas, but all the energy resources that the european union uses. the union is dependent on its suppliers in terms of prices but also in terms of supply. it is therefore imperative that we diversify our energy suppliers, energy resources and their modes of transportation to ensure a constant supply for our citizens and to protect them from disruption, especially in cold winters. on the other hand, i believe that we must invest in and encourage research and development of new technologies which will enable industries to become less energy-intensive. we must strengthen energy saving campaigns, alongside european citizens. diversifying and conserving resources are solutions for anticipating and responding to the energy crises that threaten the european union.
i would first like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have worked on perhaps the most important piece of legislation of this last legislature. it should be emphasised that we attach particular importance to smes and women's entrepreneurship in the first place, because we have just passed 8 march, international women's day, and i wish them all the best. it must be stressed, however, that this is a rather complex act, in which we have included everything that could be included on smes, reducing red tape, giving special importance to research and development activities within smes and the related funding for these activities. i think it will be a good omen in this economic crisis, because the european economy needs cohesion and it needs the most important driver, smes. for this reason, i believe that we must have the strongest possible support from the commission and the council, to speed up the adoption of this act and to be able to highlight the strength and dynamism of the european economy in this area, in order to keep at home, here in europe, all that european production and economy means. finally, we must ask the commission to find as many sources of finance as possible and to make available as many credit mechanisms as possible to smes.
in writing. i would just like to highlight two absolutely necessary aspects: in addition to legal and administrative facilities, access to finance is essential. the creation of a special fund for smes, as well as the development of microcredit, are conditions without which they cannot survive in difficult market conditions, and the creation of new smes would be very limited. the second aspect is the status of women small entrepreneurs. it is not significantly different in many situations from that of employees. the arguments can be the poor development of services that can ensure the compatibility of private life and productive activity, but also the harsh competitive environment in which networks matter a lot. such networks, through which information flows and support can be provided when needed, are present in male-led enterprises; women are more vulnerable in this respect; for this reason, partnerships between women-led and men-led enterprises should be encouraged. we also call for the recognition in all member states of the status of co-ownership for women working in small family businesses; the majority of the time, the owner is the man and they are considered unpaid family workers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i 'm not ...
in writing. the competitiveness of smes is often undermined by barriers to cross-border trade. the removal of these barriers would bring more legal stability and allow for a more efficient calculation of the liability risks of businesses and entrepreneurs. with this report, the european parliament has shown that it fully understands the crucial role that smes play in the competitiveness of the european economy. a well-designed european private company statute, complementing existing legal forms, would benefit the competitiveness of european smes in many ways, strengthening the european internal market, simplifying the legal framework for businesses, thus reducing consultancy costs and facilitating access to cross-border markets, improving integration and economic growth. this status would also provide more flexibility for smes. smes account for more than 90% of the eu economy and two thirds of jobs. they should therefore be given the best conditions to contribute to economic growth in an integrated internal market, to seize the opportunities and to meet the challenges of globalisation.
the european asylum system is currently faced with a lack of coherence in the legal instruments on international protection. the significant differences between the decision-making processes in the 27 member states on asylum applications mean that the recognition rate of applicants for refugee status varies from 0% to around 90%. in addition, the dublin criteria disproportionately burden the member states which are the external border of the european union, as they are responsible for the treatment of asylum applications as the first country of entry. phenomena such as secondary movements from one member state to another and multiple applications continue to exist. one of the most pressing needs in european asylum policy is the exchange of analysis, experience and information between member states. practical solutions must also be found for developing cooperation between the administrations responsible for examining asylum applications. communication between member states on the different treatment of applicants for international protection according to their country of origin remains, however, the most difficult problem to solve. i hope that the regulation on the creation of a european asylum support office, proposed by the commission three weeks ago, will allow a partial solution to the current problems. i urge the future heads of this european office not to ignore cooperation with the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, the european migration network and the competent bodies in the member states and third countries that carry out activities in the field of migration and asylum. in addition to avoiding duplication of effort, such cooperation will facilitate coordination between member states and the use of their expertise in asylum matters.
with the number of refugees worldwide increasing and the european union receiving more than half of the asylum seekers, the establishment of a common european asylum system is urgent. in this respect, the proposal to create a european asylum support office to coordinate national policies of different countries in order to avoid a disproportionate burden on certain countries is welcome. i believe that this office should be organised in such a way that it can play an important role in a crisis and assess asylum applications correctly. i believe that the new member states of the european union, romania and bulgaria, need to receive support from the european union through effective solidarity mechanisms, in order to guarantee adequate reception conditions for asylum seekers. but let us not forget that at european level we must act proactively, not reactively, by paying greater attention to cooperation with third countries in order to prevent crises.
each year, the member states of the european union take in millions of people seeking refuge from persecution and conflict in their home countries. however, at the level of these countries, the rate of recognition of refugee status ranges from 0% to 90%. moreover, the dublin system, through the process of refugee readmission in the first country of transit, creates a discrepancy between these and the central states in terms of the coordination of asylum policies and measures for refugees. as my predecessors have said, the common european asylum system must enable member states to ensure a high level of protection for refugees, from their reception to their full integration into local communities, by establishing a common asylum procedure with clear, uniform and reasonable time limits within which the authorities can deal with asylum applications. special attention should be paid to solidarity between member states in order to coordinate large flows of asylum seekers from certain countries, both through financial assistance and through the adoption of internal resettlement and relocation mechanisms, which allow for a uniform dispersal of refugees throughout the european union.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, dear mrs kovács, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs kosané kovács for her report, which contributes to the joint efforts to promote the social inclusion of the roma. the commission shares your analysis, madam, as regards the main reasons for this exclusion: the social segregation they suffer, the obstacles to access to education they face, the discrimination which prevents them from participating fully in the world of work, from having access to goods and services, and above all - and you have very well emphasized this - the prejudices and stereotypes with which they are plagued. the commission also supports the european parliament's proposals for finding sustainable solutions, including the emphasis on the development of children from the preschool stage, the development of micro-credit to strengthen entrepreneurship, self-employment, and the targeted implementation of the structural funds. the commission believes that the implementation of sustainable and effective solutions requires the involvement of all key actors. the involvement of roma themselves in the development, implementation and monitoring of policies that affect them is also essential. the commission also considers that community instruments and policies for roma inclusion should be better used, that good practices should be exchanged, such as the acceder programme in spain or the efforts to desegregate in hungary, and that in order to be effective, policies should be targeted and respect the specificities of roma communities with the aim of integrating them into society. in the spirit of your report, madam president, the commission will continue to support the social inclusion of the roma by strengthening the protection of the individual rights of all roma, especially women and children, by taking account of roma problems in the coordination of policies at european level, particularly in the field of employment and social inclusion, through more active implementation of the structural funds and the european social fund, and, finally, by strengthening the institutional capacity of roma civil society. ma'am, i want to thank you for your report. i can tell you that my colleague, commissioner špidla, and i are very concerned about these problems. i would add that our agency for fundamental rights has to provide us with two reports on the situation of the roma, which i hope will also enable us to propose and promote what you have explained very well to us just now. thank you, madam, and thank you to parliament for its support.
in writing. a european solution to the problems faced by roma requires that we consider them as citizens like ourselves, even if they are subject to exclusion; representative organisations and roma communities must be active actors in the development of inclusion policies. increased efforts are needed to improve housing conditions and access to education and health services; these are minimum conditions for obtaining and maintaining employment in the countries where they live; mobility opportunities have had a perverse effect on them, accentuating discrimination. women are even more vulnerable because they face multiple discrimination - gender, ethnic and social. national inclusion and poverty reduction programmes exist; the results are modest. the economic crisis should in no way be used as an excuse for not implementing social inclusion programmes; on the contrary, it is a reason for concerted action. the roma, like any other disadvantaged group, can pay dearly for the effects of the crisis. the aberrant reactions we've seen in italy are a warning. problems can be thought of as solutions or as culprits. the right has always preferred to blame others; the vulnerable, first. as a representative of the left, i prefer to find solutions.
in writing. i call on the commission to take concrete action to support the integration of roma into the labour market through measures to fund training and reform and measures to strictly enforce legislation on combating discrimination in employment. i reiterate the need to create within the ec a specialised department to ensure interaction between the commission and national governments, with a view to implementing projects aimed at the roma minority, in terms of their social, economic and cultural integration.
in writing. we are all aware that the issue of the situation of the roma is not just a national problem of each individual state, but a european problem and must be solved at this level. i would stress that the new member states in particular need real support from the eu for the integration of roma both socially and in the labour market. it is well known that the number of roma who do not have access to the labour market in the european union is worrying and we must not delay the creation of effective european programmes that stimulate first of all the access of roma to education, so that this phenomenon of unemployment is not perpetuated from generation to generation. the free movement now enjoyed by roma in the new member states did not mean that they could also access the eu labour market as easily, and we can say that roma migrants to other member states have only exported their own poverty. in the context of the economic crisis, roma citizens have even more difficult access to the labour market, which means that a large proportion of them live below the poverty line. it is therefore a major challenge for us, in a time of economic crisis, to encourage employers to provide jobs for the largest minority in europe.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the commission welcomes this own-initiative report by the european parliament. it pays tribute to the work undertaken by the imco committee and by you, madam, as its rapporteur, and it welcomes in particular the study carried out on questions of integrity. as my colleague mr mccreevy has pointed out in his previous speeches, the approaches currently adopted in the member states are too different to allow for a legislative initiative. the latest discussions in the competitiveness council made it clear that member states would not agree on such an initiative. the treaty also provides a number of guiding principles. the case law of the court of justice has recently confirmed, in the placanica judgment of march 2007, that sports betting activities do constitute services within the meaning of article 49 of the treaty. member states have the right to legislate in the field of gambling at national level. if they wish to restrict gambling activities, it is up to them to carry out the necessary studies to justify these restrictions, for example, in terms of addiction or fraud. where such measures are proved necessary, the treaty requires that they be taken in a non-discriminatory manner in respect of national operators and operators established in other member states. the commission intends to fulfil its duty by investigating any complaint submitted to it and will initiate infringement proceedings if it is found that infringements of the treaty have been committed. it is encouraging to note that following the infringement proceedings initiated, a number of member states, such as france, hungary and italy, have approached the commission and started to amend their legislation. the commission is, of course, trying to help the member states to find solutions to respond to infringement procedures. the commission published a study on the legal and economic aspects of the gambling market in 2006. in these circumstances, the commission does not consider it necessary at present to play an increased role in carrying out studies relating to national legislation or to the wider problem of addiction, fraud or other wrongdoing. however, this report provides some particularly useful insights.
the reporter. − i would first like to thank the european commission for the welcome green paper initiative on agricultural product quality and for the consultation launched on this subject. the green paper responds to a real need in the member states to promote the image of agricultural products, especially their quality advantages, to european and non-european consumers. these high standards are demanded by consumers and are a way of achieving maximum added value. although the co-decision procedure does not apply, i hope that the opinion of the european parliament will be clearly taken into account in the following stages. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and in particular the experts for their support in promoting this report. simplifying marketing rules, better informing consumers, especially about the origin of food products, and better protecting european quality products internationally are some of the most important proposals in the report. quality policy cannot be dissociated from the future of the common agricultural policy and from challenges such as climate change, the need to conserve biodiversity, energy supply and water management. at the same time, consumers - we all know - are increasingly interested not only in food safety but also in the origin and production methods of food. certification schemes are associated in the consumer's mind with the guarantee of superior quality. the aim of standards should be to help farmers deliver products of a quality that meets consumer expectations, does not disappoint consumers and facilitates price comparisons for different product qualities. as rapporteur, i want to reduce the complexity of the european system of basic standards and the many provisions that european farmers have to comply with. i am in favour of simplification and the adoption of rules which sufficiently guarantee european food safety. i also propose ways of simplifying the standard-setting process by shortening procedures within the commission, by transferring this task to other bodies or by referring to international standards. i also believe that simplification must take account of the administrative burden on public authorities or stakeholders. as market requirements change and technology advances, marketing standards may become partly outdated and need to be adapted and updated. the european union must insist that all foodstuffs comply with production standards, especially those relating to hygiene and safety. the european union must also ensure that its own products compete on an equal footing with those of third countries. i am in favour of the mandatory indication of the place of production of primary products, by mentioning 'product made in the european union' or 'produced outside the european union'. i also want to extend this system to processed food products, which take account of the origin of the main ingredients and raw materials and which establish a link between the place of origin and the place of final processing of the product. it considers that rules should be adopted on the use of the terms 'mountain' and 'insular' as this will add significant value to agricultural products and foodstuffs from these disadvantaged regions.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs petre, for this report. the european policy on the quality of agricultural products is a major challenge for farmers, the food chain in general and, of course, consumers. this is why the commission adopted the green paper on the quality of agricultural products and consulted stakeholders before making legislative proposals. the commission, mrs petre, welcomes your report and the discussions that have taken place in the various committees of the european parliament. these discussions were in addition to the 560 contributions received during the consultation period to help the commission to define strategic guidelines which will be set out in a communication due at the end of may this year. the commission intends to help european farmers to communicate the demanding production conditions they comply with. i have noticed that the proposal to indicate the place of production has received very little support, and even less so the idea of a european logo indicating compliance with european standards. on the other hand, there is a demand for the labelling 'country of origin'. the commission welcomes the support for its approach to simplification of marketing standards. the commission has always been in favour of simplifying legislation where necessary; so, mrs petre, you encourage us, you encourage us to continue our work. the commission took note of the request to define optional reserved terms such as 'farmer' or 'mountain'. i can tell you that this is also the view of a majority of those who responded to the green paper. as regards geographical indications, the commission shares your view. the procedures should be simplified or at least accelerated. we are currently looking at how to go through all the answers that have been given in the green paper. the question of an agency remains open. however, the pros and cons of such an organism will have to be carefully studied. as regards the wto negotiations, i can assure you that the recognition of european quality systems remains firmly on the commission's agenda. there seems to be a consensus on the need to harmonise and regulate certification systems and to achieve mutual recognition between these systems. guidelines could be sufficient and would allow us to avoid too much red tape. this is the first step towards a genuine policy on the quality of agricultural products. the commission is now looking forward to the next steps and the fruitful discussions that await us, and mrs fischer boel, my colleague, assures you through my voice that the commission will involve parliament in all the next actions it will undertake in this field, which you have rightly stressed, mrs petre, the importance of, not only for producers but also for all of us consumers.
in writing. – in a highly globalised world, farmers face increasing pressure. in order to be competitive, they can either cut costs or specialise in production of niche high-quality products. thus, food-quality schemes do not only provide consumers authentic products but can also support rural development. to give farmers an alternative for rural development, we need to simplify the marketing standards and strengthen the incentives for small-scale producers to participate. but simplifying standards does not mean less quality or authenticity. eu standards for placing food on the market are already among the toughest in the world. to preserve confidence in quality schemes, it is necessary to implement them with reinforced controls and traceability systems. furthermore, in the case of ‘protected geographical indications’ or ‘protected designation of origin’, it would be desirable to label the main ingredient(s) with the place of origin if not from that particular area. consumers identify in these products specific qualities resulting from a certain origin or farming method. there are, however, cases when the ingredient indicated on the label is not exactly the same as the one really used in the food, for example ‘parma ham’ not really coming from parma.
in writing. the report by mr reul is extremely important in the context of the current economic crisis and the challenges of climate change. as a member of the committee on agriculture, i have always argued that we should not underestimate the importance of investments in clean technologies and renewable energy as solutions to reduce dependence on oil, reduce carbon emissions, but not least as a solution to create new jobs and stimulate economic growth. i appreciate that biofuels are also listed in this report as an under-exploited resource and i hope that the recommendation to facilitate market access for biofuels will be taken into account by the european commission. the use of biofuels is an economically and socially viable alternative for rural development and environmental protection. at the same time, i welcome the increased attention paid to energy efficiency in buildings, which is a priority in the european economic recovery plan and is mentioned in mr reul's report as a solution to reducing the demand for fossil energy resources. energy efficiency has the added benefit of reducing the burden of bills on consumers, as the economic crisis is increasingly affecting them.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate mr schwab on the balanced report he has produced. this report responds to the needs of industry by creating transparent, simplified legislation by replacing no less than 50 core directives, thus reducing the administrative burden. we are thus facing a competitive automobile industry. it is important for all of us to increase safety on europe's roads, to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries by introducing standard equipment. the esp system must be made accessible to all, no longer a luxury option. of course, we must not forget the environmental impact of the new tire pressure monitoring system, its effect on reducing carbon dioxide emissions. it'll also reduce noise, noise pollution. new technologies will allow us to have safer and greener cars.
in writing. i welcome both the integrated approach (the synthesis of seven separate industrial emissions directives into one text) and the tightening of implementation to use the best available techniques to innovate in cleaner production. developing less polluting products involves the participation of different actors such as businesses, competent authorities and ngos. the directive provides opportunities for cooperation between the different parties (local authorities and businesses), which allows them to stimulate innovation. there are good examples of this in the netherlands and denmark, as well as in eastern european countries for example in romania. the proposed single industrial emissions directive, together with all the options recommended in the strategy package, will improve the ability of the legislation to achieve its environmental and health protection objectives in the most efficient and cost-effective way possible, while ensuring that unnecessary administrative costs are reduced (with an estimated net reduction of eur 105-225 million/year) and that distortions of competition within the eu are minimised, without affecting the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. while industrial activities play a fundamental role in maintaining and increasing economic well-being, we must not lose sight of their impact on the environment. the review of the ippc directive on integrated pollution prevention and control has placed a great deal of emphasis on the setting of limit values for certain combustion plants and the use of existing best techniques, so-called bat, to ensure a sufficient level of environmental protection. i supported the introduction, as from 1 january 2020, of a limit value of 350 g of carbon dioxide for combustion plants producing electricity of more than 500 mw, as these plants lead to an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and, by implication, to an increase in global warming. the introduction of a limit value would act as an incentive for investment in emission reduction techniques, with all installations to comply with this limit value by 2025. i believe that reducing pollution from various industrial sources will help the european union to achieve its objective of keeping the global temperature below 2 degrees celsius, and the effectiveness of this directive will be reflected in the inspections to be carried out on all combustion plants and in compliance with the conditions of authorisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the eu-south africa agreement, which is intended to take account of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu. following the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, the european parliament will give its assent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i think it is particularly important that all agreements concluded by the eu with third countries include romania as an eu member. romania is part of the european family as a full member and this must be reflected in all relevant eu documents. romania must have all the rights and obligations of an eu member state.
in writing. − the own-initiative report on eu border management is important because it will serve as a guide for the legislation the ec will propose in 2009. as rapporteur for the epp-ed, i believe that the text should have provided clearer support for the preparation of the next steps in integrated border management. as regards the eu entry/exit system, some of the data required for its creation has already been collected by systems such as vis, sis, eurodac. the commission should manage the interconnection and extend their functionality, in order to make them cost-efficient. the possibility for eu citizens to use automatic gates under the 'bona fide' registered traveller scheme is welcome as it facilitates the acceleration of traveller flows and prevents congestion. however, i have proposed changing the term 'bona fide traveller' to 'frequent travellers' to avoid considering the rest of the travellers as 'mala fide'. the creation of the electronic travel authorisation system is not financially justified; therefore i suggested replacing it with the mandatory use of biometric passports for visa-free third-country nationals entering the eu. in order to achieve the union's strategic objectives, the commission should not launch the creation of new tools from scratch until existing ones become fully operational and reliable.
in writing. - the security of external borders is a subject on which we in the european parliament and the other community institutions have not sufficiently reflected. i supported this report because i am convinced that the relevance of better records of third-country nationals is not only that it will keep out people who should not be allowed in but rather that access for legitimate travellers can be made easier. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. even if other priorities are currently dictating the union's institutional transformation, it is imperative to integrate the multiple border programmes, proposed or existing, to avoid unnecessary overlaps and costs. i also want to stress the importance of coordinating this potential plan with the experience and objectives of the schengen area, which is the clearest example of the kind of european open space we all want. we do not need temporary procedures, much less a multitude of mutually incompatible mechanisms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the abolition of controls at the eu's internal borders is a great achievement in the process of european integration, but it also raises some problems that we must take into account. i welcome the commission's initiative to prepare legislative proposals for 2009-2010 on the introduction of an entry/exit system, a registered travellers programme (rtp) and an electronic travel authorisation system (eats). while i believe that these programmes should be implemented as soon as possible and run as efficiently as possible, they need to be well prepared. the proper functioning of the ees will depend both materially and operationally on the success of the vis, sis ii and eurodac. i believe it is absolutely essential to have a comprehensive master plan that sets out the overall structure of the eu's border strategy and ensures coordination and cooperation between the different systems and authorities with responsibilities in this area. we must also take account of the us experience in this regard. i agree with the author that a programme such as us visit can technically work and that the programme as such is not, by definition, an obstacle to the normal flow of travellers.
in writing. − given the importance of free movement in the european project, the measures taken over time have been aimed at liberalising internal border controls. however, these steps must be accompanied by measures to strengthen controls at the external borders. given that, for example, up to 8 million illegal immigrants were registered in the eu in 2006, i consider the commission's initiative to introduce an entry-exit system, a registered traveller programme and an electronic traveller authorisation system in the period 2012-2015 to be a necessary initiative. the european borderless area, transformed from a dream into a reality, can only work if we assume a common responsibility and show solidarity in managing the eu's external borders, an action in which the eu's border states, including romania, will play an important role. however, we must not lose sight of the fact that border protection systems such as eurosur and frontex already exist and it is essential for their functionality to assess to what extent the new initiative can complement them without creating the risk of overlap. in addition, our concern must be to respect the right to privacy of individuals, but also to develop new, less invasive technologies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on equal treatment and access between men and women in the performing arts because inequalities in employment opportunities and the chances of success between women and men are very present and persistent in the performing arts and it is imperative to translate into reality the democratic principle of 'equal pay for equal work', which is not always respected in the artistic field as in other fields.
in writing. - i voted for this report and i worked very well with mrs gibault. we must not forget that the presence of women in the performing arts in general and specifically in leadership positions in this field is still weak. we must also not forget that we are talking about a sensitive area, with a great multiplier effect, with a strong message in its audience, in society. we don't have enough kindergartens and daycares, the schedule in show business is long and atypical. if these things improve, the report's proposed goal of having a 30% presence in the arts can be achieved.
in writing. − every citizen of the planet, aware of the scale of global warming, can act to stop this dangerous process from taking place. for drivers and the vehicles they drive, these efforts are set out in the report voted on today. green driving means reducing fuel consumption. in the eu, it is expected to reduce these costs by a possible €20 billion by 2010. it is also expected to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes. it is understandable that the effects of these measures will only be visible in the long term, but it is beneficial that they will come into force a year earlier than the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of the introduction of a mandatory indication of the place of production of primary products, by means of a label indicating the country of origin, thus reflecting the consumer's desire to know more about the origin of the product he is buying. such a system should also apply to processed food, indicating the origin of the main ingredients and raw materials and specifying their place of origin as well as the place of final processing.
in writing. - allow me to congratulate my colleague, mrs maria petre, on this excellent report. there are a few things to consider when talking about the quality of european products: the implementation of 'qualified market access' is a solution to guarantee that products accessible to european consumers, whether produced here or imported, meet the same standards. 2.the costs borne by european producers to ensure food safety and the requirements related to cross compliance, costs which should be covered by the cap funds3.promoting specific european agricultural and food products. as i asked in the report on the amendment of regulation 3/2008, the european union co-financing rate should be increased. at the same time, however, we need a simplification of bureaucratic procedures for the system of traditional specialities guaranteed and better protection of products with geographical indications or designations of origin. i hope that the recommendations we adopt will be adopted as soon as possible by the european commission and the member states, because we cannot afford to waste time at a time when european citizens are being hit by the effects of a very serious economic crisis.
in writing. - the report presented to us today by my colleague, mrs maria petre, contains a number of recommendations which i wholeheartedly support: from simplifying the bureaucracy of ensuring quality standards, to reducing the financial burden on producers and supporting traditional products, those with designations of origin or geographical indications. at a time of severe economic crisis, we have an obligation to take measures to support european farmers and processors and to ensure that consumers have access to the best products at the best prices. i believe that it is necessary to ensure that consumers are properly informed about the origin of products in order to support european agriculture, but we must not confuse these provisions on a european quality mark with protectionism that closes off access to the community market. i believe that the introduction of this mark should be aimed at promoting european products and the advantages they have over those in third countries and at better informing european consumers. at the same time, a system for recognising the origin of products will help to reduce the 'contaminated products' panic.
in writing. − i voted for the european parliament resolution on a 'small business act' for europe because it is very important to create better framework conditions to establish an environment that promotes innovation by smes, in particular by introducing ways to improve the protection of intellectual property rights and to combat fraud and counterfeiting more effectively throughout the european union. a joint effort by financial institutions, the commission and the member states is needed to ensure access to finance for smes and to enable them to consolidate their capital by reinvesting profits in the business. i voted for the amendment calling for immediate action to avoid charging fees before smes start their activities, to ensure that they have the capacity to create their own resources. i have asked the eib to develop new financial instruments and new tangible solutions to the credit-security obstacle. in addition, in view of the current financial crisis, i have called on member states to encourage banks to guarantee smes access to credit on reasonable terms.
the compromise reached for the third maritime package will improve passenger safety, help protect the environment and strengthen control systems. the blacklisting of repeat infringers will be, like that in the aviation sector, an important step towards improving safety. erika iii is particularly important for romania because, as a result of the recently adopted documents integrated maritime policy of the union and black sea synergy, it can have an important say in the success of the process of extending european principles and good practices to the other coastal states that are not part of the european union, and this through the new instrument proposed by the european commission through the eastern partnership. measures relating to shipping should be complemented by enhanced cooperation between the riparian states to rationalise the exploitation of resources and to reduce pollution from port and coastal activities and along the entire danube. only by concerted action in all areas can the black sea be effectively protected.
the third shipping package is a very important one. the union wants the development of maritime corridors as part of the ten-t expansion. this maritime package contributes to the increase of maritime transport safety and implements the lessons learned from the maritime accidents of the past years, the erika and prestige ships, and the accidents in the black sea. for the black sea in particular, this package will be of particular importance, as many of the black sea coastal states are on the paris memorandum's blacklist or grey list. the liability of shipowners in the event of an accident should also apply to accidents occurring on inland waterways. i believe that ships in distress should be taken to specially designated areas where they can receive the assistance they need. of course, there is a need to regulate clearly how these services will be paid for.
on behalf of the pse group. i would first like to congratulate my colleague el khadraoui and mr jarzembowski. the transport sector is one of the key sectors for the economic and social development of the european union. at the request of the european parliament, the european commission has proposed the internalisation of external costs and the amendment of the eurovignette directive. the timing is, however, extremely difficult. the economic crisis is causing orders to drop, freight forwarders to have high costs, businesses to close and jobs to be lost. the commission's proposed texts are a step forward in the development of transport that respects and protects the environment, but they can and must be improved. i do not think that mr jarzembowski's approach, in which we only criticize without improving, is the right one. i personally believe that a directive which is not binding on all member states will not achieve its aim and can significantly distort the internal market by the barriers which some member states, if they wish, can introduce to the free movement of persons and goods. i therefore believe that the internalisation of external costs should apply to all types of transport and that double taxation should be avoided. thus, if some member states have decided to introduce a road fee, then they should no longer introduce an additional pollution fee. this is also the position of mr el khadraoui, which i support. the cost of congestion is 1% of gross domestic product. we must therefore act to reduce it, but the cost of these measures is not to be borne only by road hauliers and road hauliers. congestion is due to all vehicles and, in particular, to a poor infrastructure. member states must invest in the construction of motorways, high-speed railways and other alternatives that can reduce congestion. co-modality will enable the transfer of goods from the road system to the rail, sea or air system and will make the transport of goods and people more efficient. in conclusion, we need an integrated strategy for the development of european transport, with environmental protection, but without the internalisation of external costs affecting the competitiveness of road transport.
a coherent and sustainable european transport policy is needed, respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. internalising the external costs of pollution and noise is a positive measure. fees for heavy-duty road infrastructure use will in the long term support the massive infrastructure investments included in the european and national economic recovery plans, both at the level of trans-european transport networks and at the level of other categories of road infrastructure, including in mountain areas where road construction is often particularly arduous. in the short term, however, it is up to the member states to find concrete and rapid ways of financing these investments through the judicious use of the funds made available by the union, both through the ten-t financial framework and through the structural and cohesion funds, as well as through concessions and public-private partnerships. the european commission must support, through the instruments at its disposal, the integrated infrastructure network extension initiatives of the member states, especially the new member states. as regards the introduction of a charge for infrastructure users to solve the congestion problem, i believe that this proposal should be studied further, given that it does not depend exclusively on motor vehicles, but more particularly on the ability of member states to plan and implement their territorial infrastructure efficiently at regional and local level. for this reason, i believe that there is a need for better coordination between spatial planning, urban planning and traffic management, particularly in urban and peri-urban areas, where congestion is the most common problem.
the commission's desire to charge transport operators not only for the right to use the infrastructure but also for environmental effects, the so-called internalisation of external costs, will represent a tax burden with severe consequences for the companies concerned, especially in the context of the current economic crisis. before such a directive is put forward, concrete impact studies based on relevant statistical data are needed; a realistic estimate of the consequences of applying such a directive is needed and concrete proposals are needed on the methods of calculating and accounting for external costs. internalising the external costs of transport is, in the long term, a measure that can help to greenerise transport and i note that such concrete legislative instruments are indeed needed in member states such as romania. however, i do not see a future application of these external costs, at least not in my home city of bucharest. i am talking about traffic congestion, air pollution, noise pollution, water pollution, soil pollution or damage to natural landscapes. i find it hard to believe that the romanian authorities will implement this directive which is more burdensome than helpful. however, as mr jarzembowski points out, the application of such measures must be the result of objective studies based on statistical data; we cannot ask transport companies to pay arbitrarily fixed amounts for external costs, especially since these amounts are significant.
member of the commission. − it is in its european economic recovery plan – which has, by the way, been endorsed by parliament and the council – that the commission supports the promotion of the rapid take-up of green products. it has, among other things, proposed reduced vat rates for green products and services aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings in particular. furthermore, the commission encourages member states to provide further incentives to consumers to stimulate demand for environmentally-friendly products. the commission is currently carrying out a review of the existing community tax legislation. the objective is to eliminate as much as possible existing incentives that run counter to the objectives of energy efficiency and the reduction of carbon emissions, as well as to create incentives where appropriate to serve these objectives. in addition to the above fiscal initiatives, the commission seeks to enhance the use of other financial instruments to promote energy efficiency, in particular in buildings. a sustainable energy financing initiative is being developed jointly by the commission and the european investment bank. the initiative aims at mobilising funding from capital markets to be used via the participation of the covenant of mayors. for 2009, a budget of eur 15 million can be expected to be made available. the commission has also proposed the modification of regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 on the european regional development fund, which would allow use of this fund by all member states for increased expenditure on energy efficiency improvements and the use of renewable energy in existing housing.
i would like to start from the fact that the current directive has been poorly implemented, insufficiently implemented and therefore i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering reducing vat on products in the future; i also think it would be important to increase the share of the european regional development fund used for energy efficiency in buildings and social housing from 3% to 15%. i also think that a european fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy would be important.
member of the commission. − there is no excuse for crime, wherever that crime has taken place – be it in the real world or in the digital world – but of course it is much easier to fight crime in the real world because you have the instruments which allow you directly to intervene. it is much more complicated on the worldwide web, and that is why we have developed a whole series of instruments in order to fight such crime. i know from discussions with my colleague, jacques barrot, that police forces are building up a network of analyses in order to fight crime on line, and that they are having more and more success in catching the criminals. however, there are also more and more sites being constructed. i myself have tried, with the safer internet programme, to do something else in this respect. this is to empower people – and most of all young people – who utilise the internet to know what to do when they come across negative content. for instance – and we are not necessarily speaking about crime, but about cyber-bullying, which can become terrible for young people – that there is a special report button for them to ask for help. so we are trying by different means to fight criminals by means of the police forces, by empowering educators, parents and children so that they can take a decision by themselves or report, and of course by media literacy programmes, which i personally would wish to be much more numerous in the member states. you have to give tools to the next generation to find a solution and to fight, because, if not, then we might have a problem with the internet, and that parents will not allow, for instance, their kids to be on the internet, and that would not be the right way to proceed. we want the positive site of the internet to flourish and the negative side of the internet to be blocked. now to the murder question which the honourable member underlined. this is a terrible thing to happen, and i believe that it is within the field of activity of the police and security forces to block all this. those tools should of course not be regarded as something which can be utilised for solving all society’s problems, but when it comes to crime there can be no discussion. crime has to be fought and it has to be fought very strongly.
member of the commission. − information and communication technologies have a huge potential for helping older people. well, that is easily said and not so easily done because we do have a real digital divide here. it is those people who badly need ict tools who, because they have never used those tools in their lives before, are not used to utilising them. for instance, only 15% of older people use the internet. that is why we have to develop a whole policy in order to bring this barrier down, because we will need ict to enable older people to stay active and productive for longer, to continue to engage in society with more accessible online services, and to enjoy a healthier and higher quality of life for longer. that was exactly why the commission presented in 2007 an action plan for ageing well in the information society with very concrete measures. the first measure is on research and innovation in order to develop and test technologies for social care and independent living for older persons. i must pay tribute to our industries because, through these research programmes, the industries have developed a whole series of mechanisms, services and products which help older people to stay longer in their own homes. the second measure is to raise awareness of the benefits among users and public authorities through the establishment of a best practice internet portal and european award schemes for smart homes – independent living applications for instance. the third is to reduce the fragmentation of approaches in deploying these technologies in europe. in 2008 the commission adopted two other initiatives. the first was a new joint programme to support joint research with member states in the area of ambient-assisted living: those are the technologies for home applications and for mobility, assisting older users in their daily lives and providing social care applications. the second was the new communication on e-accessibility, fostering the use of ict goods and services by older people and by people with disabilities, and inviting member states to take all necessary steps to improve the accessibility of public websites. in line with those measures, between now and 2013, the eu, together with member states and the private sector, will invest more than eur 1 billion in research and innovation for the ageing society. so you see we really take that very seriously and we believe that we have possibilities here to improve life in an ageing society. on the problem of low-income users, i would refer first of all to the second package of the roaming regulation which parliament adopted in the itra committee yesterday night; one element of this package is to bring down the prices of using mobile phones, land-lines, the internet, etc. the commission has also set up a consumer market scoreboard that permits monitoring of market outcomes for consumers. the evidence on the scoreboard helps us to better take account of consumer interests. the new proposals which are before parliament in the review of the telecom market also aim to strengthen consumers’ and users’ rights with a view to improving accessibility and promoting an inclusive society. it has been proposed, for instance, to amend some provisions in order to take better account of the needs of the elderly and those with special needs, and those should be general objectives guiding the activity of the national regulatory authorities.
i want to congratulate you on what you're doing for children and the internet and also on your decision to have 100% broadband coverage by the year 2010. i mean, in romania, the elderly, parents communicate cheaply and effectively with children who are abroad via the internet; they see and hear them. however, i want to ask you what you are doing for the development of electronic services. i'm talking about the public key infrastructure.
the czech presidency was right: the barcelona objectives were set before the last enlargement. but he was fundamentally wrong in claiming that the specificity of the new states and their previous experience would be arguments against these objectives. on the contrary, the benefits are important: for parents and gender equality, for the economy and employment, for children and the future. the relatively low wages in our countries force both parents to work; it is not an option, it is a necessity. single-parent families are also on the rise, with nearly a third of children in some countries born outside the traditional family. policies that encourage labour mobility, seen as a factor of efficiency, cannot always ignore the fact that people have children. many of them live in poor families, without adequate food, health, and education. sometimes the environment is violent. by going to work, they're also left alone. these services can break the chain of poverty and provide a positive alternative to socialising under the guidance of a specialist staff. but to fulfil this role, day-care centres must be: 1. available, but above all accessible, free of charge or at affordable costs; and 2. of good quality. here, the professionalism of the staff is essential. to combat the crisis, we are selling off nearly new cars to buy new ones, wasting valuable material resources. it is preferable to invest in the construction of nurseries and kindergartens and to create stable jobs for those who work in this field. the quality of human resources has long been a criterion for distinguishing between nations. we propose that the commission take public expenditure per child seriously in evaluating employment programmes in each state. it is true that jacques delors once said that every child is a treasure and that it is the task of society to discover it. but i would add this: if we do not, society is undermining its future as a whole.
according to the european commission's october 2008 report on the implementation of the barcelona objectives on pre-school childcare facilities, member states have not met the targets set by eu leaders. in this context, i recommend the following actions: 1. increasing the involvement of national governments in this issue;2. creating a body of specialists at national government level to deal strictly with this issue only; 3. the development of eu control over member state governments through a set of specific instruments. all these measures would help to ensure equal opportunities for women and men, improve the quality of life and offset demographic ageing by boosting the birth rate.
the country i represent has long been on the list of those who do not have a social policy for childcare that meets european standards. gradually, things improved, with qualitative methods being adopted as a result of the specialization of the care staff. the barcelona objectives have motivated institutions that aim at child protection and care standards have brought responsibilities and competences, and children enjoy humane treatment. now that the birth rate is falling, we must give equal opportunities to those with special social status, and both the member states and the european commission must make efforts to educate them, and then to integrate them into society. they have inferiority complexes toward other home-grown children; hence, programs that allow them to spend time with family and socialize could help these children to regain their social standing.
women's involvement in work, politics and encouragement to take on more responsibilities depends on the availability of childcare facilities. women need to be encouraged to plan for their careers, and this cannot be done without an effective system for childcare. every euro invested in childcare facilities is a benefit of between six and nine euros for society, through the creation of jobs and better educational conditions. the fact that in many european member states you have to register for example in daycare, just before the baby is born, or that there are queues of several months to register for kindergarten, shows that childcare facilities in europe are not sufficient. child care facilities not only help women advance their careers, but most importantly, they develop the children's skills as members of society. i also want to say that in this time of crisis it's important to invest in education, health, to invest practically in the future.
substitute for the author. - i would first like to thank my colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs, the esp secretariat within the commission for promoting this subject on migrant children, which we are debating today in plenary, because when we talk about children, we are talking about our future, about the future of the european union. labour migration is a growing phenomenon internationally, but also within the union. migration has great potential for development, but it also presents serious challenges, both in the developed and the least developed countries of the european union. we can talk about the positive impact of migration on the economy of migrant workers' countries of origin, because it can reduce poverty and increase investment in human capital, but the situation of migrant children, who are left alone in their country of origin when their parents emigrate in search of work in another country, is an issue that has caused concern in some member states over the last two years. although there are comprehensive policies to improve the lives and education of migrant children who have moved abroad with their parents, the phenomenon of children left at home has received less attention. parental emigration is a complex social phenomenon with a complex impact on the dynamics and functioning of the family, but also on society as a whole. children of migrant workers are a vulnerable group at risk. the complexity of the phenomenon, its causes and consequences, the dynamics and how legislation is effectively implemented on the ground, and the practices of professionals, have posed many challenges not only for the authorities but also for civil society. in this context, romanian civil society and media have presented studies that mention that in romania there are over 350 000 children whose parents work abroad, of which 126 000 children have both parents gone. the negative consequences of parental absence are felt by children primarily on a psychological level.feeling depressed, lack of interest in school and extracurricular activities can be direct consequences of parental absence. a direct consequence of parental migration is the deprivation of the child of parental affection and supervision necessary for normal development. in the absence of parents and the care of children by persons unable to provide emotional and educational support, these two consequences can in turn have negative effects on the health and psychological development of children, their involvement in deviant or age-inappropriate behaviour and their exposure to other forms of exploitation or abuse. as a mother and a european social democrat, i am advocating for the respect of the rights of all children, their equal opportunities, the role of the state and investment in the training of the new generations. identifying the most vulnerable, excluded or marginalised children should be the focus of any research effort, thus ensuring that appropriate leverage is created to support the efforts of authorities to ensure the rights of all children. commissioner špidla, i would like to thank you very much for the contribution you made by transmitting the video message to the european conference on children left at home that i organised in bucharest last november. given the complexity of this phenomenon, especially in the context of the current economic and social crisis, which primarily affects vulnerable groups, including children, i would like to ask you, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, whether the commission intends to carry out a study to assess the extent of the situation and whether the commission considers that the issue of migrant workers' children is a problem only for the government of the country of origin or also for the governments of the host countries which benefit from the presence of migrants on the labour market.
according to a study by unicef and the association alternative sociale, in romania, for approximately 350 000 children, one of the parents works abroad, and for 126 000 both parents. these results are worrying. i believe that the following measures could improve this situation: 1. the national governments of migrant origin, together with the governments of labour-absorbing countries, together with the european commission, to create a joint programme through which migrant workers will have access to specific childcare services, the school and educational system, and language courses, services accessible to all segments of migrant workers; 2.the commission, together with the governments of the employing states, should develop a strategy to provide certain facilities to employers so that they can offer employees and a package of specific services through which migrant workers can take their children to the countries where they work. i believe that these measures would be conducive to the harmonious development and upbringing of these children, since they too represent the future of europe.
i would like to stress one thing: the flow of labour we are talking about is from the less developed countries to the more developed countries of the union. the possibility of entering the labour markets of developed countries is usually considered a great advantage offered, and the high amounts entering the countries of origin are constantly brought up as an argument. the facts here show another side of the story: in addition to lower labor costs, developed countries are outsourcing some of the labor costs. they remain the responsibility of the communities and states where the workers come from and are significant. in this context, cohesion policies and solidarity between member states should not be seen as a kind of altruism of the rich towards the poor. these are absolutely necessary policies, acts of justice, if the european union is to remain consistent with its values and maintain the attachment of its citizens to those values.
madam president, in the context of this debate i wish to take the opportunity to emphasise another aspect connected with the issues already mentioned. i was recently the shadow for the ppe-de group on the report on educating the children of migrants. that report was based on the communication from the commission on ‘migration and mobility: challenges and opportunities for eu education systems’. that document was very well structured and summarised very well the problems connected with migration and education. however, one aspect was left out: the situation of thousands of european children left behind by parents who go to work in another european country, generally called the ‘migration orphans’, of which there are almost 350 000 in my country. i have already tabled a written question to the commission on this topic, but would like to take this opportunity to put that question again. so, commissioner, could you please tell us whether the commission thinks this is only a matter for national governments, or do we need european action in this field? if we do, what action has, or will be, taken by the commission in order to help those children in their school years?
in romania we have a saying: a well-mannered man has his seven years at home. minor children should be with the family, under the direct supervision and care of their parents. parents who decide to work temporarily in other countries should be supported to reunite their families as soon as possible. in many member states, schools provide facilities for learning the language of the country of residence. in some member states, families living illegally were even able to settle their situation if they had children enrolled in school and were even given social housing. children are the most precious thing in society and we owe it to them to ensure conditions for their harmonious development. formal education, affectivity and the integration of children into society are essential conditions for a social europe that offers equal opportunities to all its citizens. i congratulate mrs plumb on her initiative, it is a current subject and of very great importance for the future. - thank you.
in writing. the global economic crisis has caught us all by surprise, whether it is banks, multinational companies or even transnational institutional structures. the world economy is in trouble, and the very survival of the global financial system is at stake. i do not think i will be contradicted when i say that the scale of the current problems requires a concentrated effort at european level, and that solidarity is required to overcome the present crisis. i represent in the european parliament a country in southeastern europe, romania, and i can say that the effects of economic growth of over 7% in 2008 seem to be melting away in the face of economic turbulence that is starting to bite. the economic recovery plan drawn up by the european commission must have an impact on every corner of the old continent. certain parts of europe must not feel abandoned, powerless in the face of an adversary they have not provoked. i think that for the european union, the most daring political project in the last hundred years, this is the most important test: the states across the continent must show that they are one force. in the words of european commission president josé manuel durão barroso: 'europe will be judged first by its results'. i agree with that statement.
in writing. i welcome the initiative of an economic recovery plan in the context of the current crisis. the union needs a common, clear and effective approach so that the effects of the crisis are minimised both in intensity and duration. we need clearer rules for the financial sector, especially on high-risk investments such as hedge funds. solidarity between member states is of the utmost importance today. it is understandable that the uk should take measures specific to the national economic context, but these must not be in contradiction with the internal market and emu. the priority must be to facilitate credit, especially to smes, which are a driver of economic growth and have the capacity to create jobs. state intervention measures must, however, be temporary, after which the competition rules must be strictly observed. the crisis-fighting measures must also be part of a responsible budgetary policy. although we are in a period of crisis, i consider it particularly important to respect the stability and growth pact as much as possible, as deepening the budget deficit can be a disastrous solution in the long term, especially for future generations.
in writing. – comissioner joaquín almunia has said recently that member countries of the euro area that face big difficulties could benefit from assistance from other eu members. why has this indication of collective response not been firmly signalled to non-euro-area new member states? arguably, there is something wrong with the assistance packages extended to latvia and hungary. reducing very large imbalances is, fundamentally, sound. but how this is done does matter to the utmost. are budget deficits to be compressed drastically while the private sector is cutting its activity dramatically? pro-cyclicality has to be averted both during an upswing and a downswing. if public budgets are not the main explanation behind large external deficits, why should they bear the brunt of downsizing them? just remember the lessons from the asian crisis, a decade ago. policy also has to think about how to discourage speculative attacks against the currencies of new member states. just cutting budget deficit drastically would not help much in this regard either. hopefully, future ecofin meetings would enhance better approaches regarding financial assistance. and, whenever the imf is brought on board in assistance packages it should consider the suitability of its traditional approach in dealing with macroeconomic imbalances in view of the extraordinary current circumstances.
in writing. romania must exploit the new opportunities offered by the structural funds. the central and local public authorities in romania must make the most of the opportunity offered by the european commission to facilitate access to the community structural funds and access these funds to create new jobs, to provide vocational training through lifelong training programmes for retraining, and to support smes. accelerating and simplifying community financing can help to stimulate economic recovery by providing a flow of liquidity in the areas concerned. these payments will be faster and more flexible and there will be a single payment, which will allow the short implementation of desired projects in areas such as infrastructure, energy or the environment. on the other hand, the romanian authorities must ensure, according to european procedures, the part of co-financing related to the implementation of projects, for their implementation as soon as possible after receiving european money. the european commission's proposals are aimed at accelerating priority investment at national and regional level in the member states by simplifying access to grants and increasing the availability of finance for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. the main common features of the european union's member countries are democracy, stability, responsibility and cohesion. the report by mr evgeni kirilov on cohesion policy: investing in the real economy underlines the importance of these common features of the member states as a first necessity in the common strategy for the continuation of social and economic policies. the european economy is suffering today from the consequences of the global financial crisis and the most widespread and severe recession in 60 years. we need to encourage member states to examine the synergies between cohesion policy funding and other sources of community funding for ten-t, ten-e, the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, and funding from the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. at the same time, member states should simplify and facilitate access to finance provided through the jessica, jasmine and jeremie financial instruments in order to stimulate more frequent use by smes and interested beneficiaries. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr evgeni kirilov, on his contribution to the report.
in writing. all the principles of the economic recovery plan must be reflected in the national economic recovery plans. the european funds made available must be used for projects of the highest priority and distributed fairly among the member states, taking into account any special situations. we must make effective use of all the opportunities at our disposal, which is why advancing the possibilities of using european funds is of the utmost importance, because it accelerates and ensures a fluctuation in the implementation of this plan. projects must be carried out quickly and efficiently to attract the labour force in need; bureaucratic procedures, and especially deadlines for implementing procedures, must therefore be drastically reduced to ensure the immediate efficiency of this process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. it is clear that state aid must be used with caution to avoid creating competition problems, but at the same time it is necessary to carefully analyse the beneficial effects such aid may have on the use of labour, taking into account the situations in which such aid is more than necessary.
in writing. the european commission allocates substantial amounts of money to invest in energy efficiency, renewable energy production and the construction of trans-european transport and energy networks. only by implementing a good policy in this area can we ensure that gas and energy crises in some parts of the union will not occur in the future. connecting all european gas and energy networks ensures the principle of solidarity: a member state will be able to import - and export - natural resources, under normal and crisis conditions. in this context, member states should use the funding opportunities offered by the structural funds to develop their infrastructure, energy and environment projects. to improve the quality of these projects and the efficiency of their implementation, the countries of the union must make the most of the technical assistance that the european commission can provide.
in writing. i welcome the speed with which the eu institutions have identified solutions to the current economic crisis. but i would like to highlight a few issues that need to be addressed with increased attention. first, funding for energy infrastructure projects. i think it's fundamentally wrong to spread the same money over as many projects as possible, at the risk of not covering the budget needed to complete them. lately, watching the nabucco talk, i feel like we're playing with fire. we cannot announce 250 million euros for nabucco, then say we are reducing the funding by 50 million, and then conclude that it should be a purely private investment. the utility of the nabucco project is indisputable and we cannot afford to delay it for political and economic reasons. secondly, i believe that we must not fall prey to protectionist tendencies which would affect the functioning of the internal market. even if the impact of the crisis is asymmetric across the union, the response must be one consistent with the objectives of cohesion policy and the principles of the internal market. i consider it essential to assess the impact of these changes in order to increase the effectiveness of the measures in the new financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. representing 1/3 of the eu budget, without being a crisis management tool, cohesion policy is nevertheless the most important source of investment in the real economy and a huge opportunity, especially for regions with permanent disadvantages. i would therefore like to draw attention to the need to find solutions for better vertical involvement of the regions at european level. in the context of the extraordinary economic situation, i would like to stress the importance of increasing the flexibility of access to structural funds and welcome the extension of the possibility of supporting investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing and clean technology sectors.
in writing. for some member states, including the baltic states, romania and hungary, the financial crisis and the global recession have highlighted structural imbalances built up during periods of economic growth, based on inflows of foreign direct investment and rapid external indebtedness. any eu economic recovery plan must take into account the fact that these countries need substantial external financing to cover their trade deficits in goods and services. without this external financing, these countries are doomed to sudden and massive adjustments, which will erase the welfare gains made in previous years, weaken eu cohesion and may even jeopardise stability in the area. the council and the european commission have a clear responsibility in finding solutions for the necessary external financing. the member states concerned have the responsibility, by buying time through the external financing obtained, to carry out structural reforms to correct the accumulated imbalances.
in writing. the ec communication on the european economic recovery plan of december 2008 lists the areas where the eu will invest in the coming years to ensure growth and job preservation, namely: support for small and medium-sized enterprises financial estimate of €30 billion, through the eib; accelerating investment in infrastructure projects for trans-european energy interconnections and broadband - financial estimate of €5 billion for energy efficiency improvements in buildings; research and innovation. these measures must be supported by legislative proposals which also provide for financial allocations. the january 2009 proposal for a regulation on the financing of energy projects under the european economic recovery plan does not have financial allocations for energy efficiency in buildings. i think the eu is wrong not to support its priorities financially in this time of economic crisis. the field of energy efficiency in buildings can generate around 500 000 jobs in the eu, improve the quality of life of citizens and contribute to sustainable economic development by promoting renewable energy. i personally think that the current european commission would be a failure if it did not support energy efficiency in buildings through financial instruments and measures, through appropriate fiscal measures and through a strong political signal at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it helps to mobilise the solidarity fund much more quickly. in 2006, the payment by the european union through the solidarity fund for the aid to romania after the floods in april and august was delayed by one year. i am pleased to note that the procedures have improved and allow for prompt union intervention in countries that have experienced a major natural or exceptional disaster.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs jutta haug (germany), as it calls for the mobilisation of eur 11.8 million from the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to help the victims of the floods that affected romania in july 2008. this gesture represents the eu's response to romania's request for assistance. the request relates to five counties (maramureş, suceava, botoşani, iasi and neamt). 241 romanian localities, with a total population of 1.6 million inhabitants, suffered directly from the catastrophe, which destroyed partly or completely their homes and crops. i voted with the people who lost their homes, their possessions, their animals, and even their family members in the floods in mind. the president of suceava county council, mr gheorghe flutur, pleaded their case in brussels, in the european parliament. i believe that romania needs more money to repair the damage caused by the floods and that european assistance is necessary and welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania as i believe that the financial aid granted to our country represents an important and necessary support for the localities hit by the floods in july last year. the north-eastern region of romania was severely affected: 214 localities and more than 1.6 million people suffered directly from the disaster. the european commission's financial contribution of eur 11.8 million supports investments in rehabilitation of transport and sewerage infrastructure, river embankment and damming works to prevent such natural disasters in the future. i believe that early detection of the causes of natural disasters of this magnitude or worse is the most important step to protect europe's citizens. in view of the climate change we are facing, i support the establishment of environmental monitoring tools in each region and the allocation of an appropriate budget for them. convergence areas are the most exposed to the risk of being affected by natural disasters and special attention must be paid to them in order to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion policy.
in writing. − the areas most vulnerable to the effects of climate change are water resources, agriculture, energy, forestry and biodiversity, and not least, public health. the extreme weather events in romania in recent years have resulted in floods and drought and lead to the need to address climate change with the utmost seriousness, competence and responsibility. as a social democrat i voted for this report because the allocated amount of eur 11.8 million through budgetary adjustment supports romania in its efforts to adapt to climate change to remove the effects of floods by carrying out local protection works (protection of human settlements, improvement of the basins through work to improve the floodplains and increase the forested area) and not least involving and educating the population in order to ensure appropriate behaviour before, during and after the floods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 1/2009 of the european union for the financial year 2009. the report aims to mobilise eur 11,8 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund following the floods that affected romania in july 2008. i support the european commission's initiative to show eu solidarity with the counties of suceava, iasi, neamt, botosani and maramures, which suffered from the floods in july 2008. by voting today, the european parliament's plenary validates the decision of the committee on budgets of 24 february 2009. at that meeting, the president of the suceava county council, gheorghe flutur, presented the situation of the region affected by the floods, supporting the request for funds with images and a statistical situation of the destruction following the natural disasters that affected the area. he said that warnings had been sent and that, together with the authorities of the chernivtsi region of ukraine, it had been agreed to set up a rapid alert system in the event of disasters, and that other cross-border cooperation programmes for emergency situations were to be carried out as a continuation of this project.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on draft amending budget no 1/2009 of the european union for the financial year 2009 (6952/2009 c6 0075/2009 2009/2008 ((bud)) as it concerned the mobilisation of eur 11.8 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund following the floods that affected romania in july 2008.
in writing. − the current economic crisis is having and will continue to have repercussions on the labour market in the near future. i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on 'guidelines for the employment policies of the member states' because, together with the rapporteur, i support the commission's position that it has proposed (as annexed to council decision 2008/618/ec of 15 july 2008) that employment policies be maintained throughout 2009. the commission believes that this approach will create a solid framework to combat the economic and financial crisis and to continue structural reforms.
in writing. − the report of the committee on employment and social affairs is welcomed, highlighting a new dimension to the roma inclusion strategy, developed since 2005 through a series of european parliament resolutions. the current situation of the roma demonstrates that there has not been enough progress in roma integration since the commission launched its first call for roma integration in 2005. the report proposes important policy action lines to promote roma education and encourage positive discrimination in the labour market. supporting roma integration into the labour market through measures to finance training and retraining, measures to promote self-employment among roma, granting concessional loans or public subsidies, and the development of innovative forms of work in agriculture are objectives that the eu has a duty to coordinate. the creation of a european union-wide expert group, including roma representatives, could also help coordinate member states' roma strategy and the use of the structural and cohesion funds. i hope that these suggestions will motivate the european commission sufficiently to come up with legislative proposals with a view to achieving visible results in this area.
in writing. − ensuring equal opportunities for the roma minority in the eu is the right approach to preventing social exclusion and respecting the rights of this community. that is why i voted in favour of mrs kovács' report, which i consider very useful. i would like to make a few clarifications, however, to clarify my position on this matter. given the inherently transnational nature of this minority, an effective approach to roma rights can only be managed at european level. that is why i have proposed the creation of a european roma agency, whose role is to ensure the coordination at european level of policies aimed at this minority. secondly, supporting the integration of the roma minority cannot be done through redistributive tax measures, as they cannot solve the structural problems affecting roma communities. the best way to support this minority should focus on educational programmes designed to help these communities acquire the skills needed to enter the labour market. on the other hand, a european policy on the roma minority must aim at promoting tolerance and acceptance of cultural differences, with emphasis on peaceful coexistence within the limits imposed by the laws of the state concerned and by european-level rules.
in writing. − the european economic recovery plan is particularly important because of its two central elements: first, short-term fiscal stimulus to boost demand, protect jobs and restore consumer confidence, and second, smart investment to boost economic growth. the european union's number one priority is to protect citizens from the negative effects of the financial crisis. for the romanian economy, the measures will prove effective, especially with regard to smes, by simplifying and speeding up procedures, making the structural and cohesion funds and the rural development funds available in advance. the positive vote on this report also implies that the european social fund will have to finance measures to promote employment, in particular for the most vulnerable groups of the population, and that the framework conditions will also have to be created to mitigate the effects on the business sector, since this sector plays a key role in the recovery of the economy, also making a decisive contribution to job creation and thus to generating demand on the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs ferreira's report, in the belief that it will help to overcome the difficult economic period that europe is going through as a result of the neo-liberal policies of the last 10 years. the rich european states must show solidarity with eastern europe and the aid fund for them must be increased. in our view, as european socialists, we must work to eliminate the differences between the more developed and the developing countries, especially since the economies of the latter are closely linked to the banking institutions of the west. that is why we need a plan to coordinate the economies of all the member states. we support measures against offshore financial activities, whereby those who make a lot of money move their businesses to these tax havens, paying no taxes, while most eu citizens pay taxes and lose their jobs. the figures are alarming, with 25 million unemployed expected across europe by the end of 2009 (500,000 in romania). the elimination of tax havens will lead to the elimination of unemployment. we need to promote and support european solidarity between the old and new member states, and the vote on the amendment on this issue is a test for the ep.
in writing. - i voted for the fereira report which calls on the european commission to come up with clear and strong guidelines for a better coordinated approach between all member states to manage this severe economic crisis in order to protect as many jobs as possible. i ask the commission to start the proceedings as soon as possible. the european parliament, through this report, invites the spring european council to give a strong political impetus and to establish a roadmap for all legal initiatives, in order to guarantee together with parliament that they will be adopted in good time. the report highlights the extremely negative economic and social consequences of the crisis in many of the new member states, which pose a substantial risk of destabilisation and increased poverty. the collateral effects are expected to affect the euro and the euro area economies. we call for a coordinated approach at community level with a view to community solidarity and the assumption of collective responsibility in this regard, and call on the commission to review and strengthen all instruments aimed at stabilising the affected member states, including exchange rate stabilisation, so that safeguards and rapid and effective response packages can be implemented.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, before i address the subject of our debate today, let me start by expressing my deep condolences to relatives of the victims in the tragic incident in baden-württemberg today. now let me turn to the subject of our debate today. firstly, we are grateful for the opportunity to have this debate. this is an important issue, as you all know well. a number of operational difficulties have led to specific problems in getting sis ii up and running. the presidency wishes, as you request, to be completely transparent with you about the history of and the background on this issue. because of the negative results of the original tests on the system, further tests were conducted in november and december 2008. the final results of these operational system tests were only known in the second half of january 2009. at their informal meeting of 15 january 2009 in prague, justice and home affairs ministers were informed by the commission that the outcome of these tests had been less than satisfactory. the ministers agreed immediately on the need to implement a new global sis ii management approach, involving member states working together with the commission. the new management approach will provide for closer monitoring of the project, thereby allowing for early warning of any potential difficulties. it was also agreed that measures would be taken at a subsequent jha council, which took place on 26 and 27 february 2009. at that meeting, the council agreed in its conclusion to invite the commission to keep parliament and the presidency of the council fully informed about problems related to sis ii and the way forward. this parliament has asked whether the problems identified to date will require the system to be rebuilt. according to the information received by the council on the status of the sis ii project, a number of problems persist. however, we understand that the view of the commission is that all outstanding issues can be resolved without a major redesign of the sis ii application. at its february meeting, the council endorsed the implementation of the sis ii analysis and repair plan, which will allow for the identification of all issues and their immediate solution, as well as the evaluation of the technical architecture so as to ensure a stable and flawless sis ii system. nevertheless, the council also agreed that the contingency plan should be followed in case serious problems emerge which could not be resolved. as far as an alternative to sis ii is concerned, the jha council in february welcomed the completion of the feasibility study serving as a basis for creating a workable, alternative technical scenario for developing sis ii based on sis i+ evolution as a part of the contingency plan. the council also requested that as soon as possible, and by may 2009 at the latest, a report containing an in-depth assessment and comparison of both scenarios should be submitted to the council by the presidency and the commission. the council will assess, on the basis of this report, the progress made on sis ii development and, as far as the alternative scenario is concerned, will examine the prospect of achieving the objective of sis ii as set out in the legal framework governing the establishment, operation and use of sis ii, on the technical basis of sis i+ evolution. this examination will be carried out as soon as possible and at the latest by the council meeting on 4 and 5 june 2009. as to the details requested by parliament on the resolution of the outstanding problems and in particular the financial aspects, the council invited the commission not only to inform the european parliament about the problems related to sis ii, but also to inform both parliament and the council fully and on a regular basis about the expenditure figures related to the central sis ii project and to measures taken to ensure complete financial transparency. on the basis of the report requested from the presidency and commission, the council will, at the latest by its meeting in june 2009, discuss the calendar for entry into operation of sis ii. this will take into account the provisions on time schedules set out in parliament’s resolution of 24 september 2008 on the draft council regulation on immigration from the schengen information system – sis i+ – to the second-generation schengen information system – sis ii. this was incorporated into article 19 of the council regulation of 24 october. i am sure that the commission will be able to provide some additional information in response to the questions raised. i would simply like to assure you, the members of this parliament, that the presidency will follow this issue closely and ensure that the way forward agreed last month by jha ministers is strictly respected.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to confirm what minister vondra said. i should also like to say that together with mr langer, the president of the council of ministers for home affairs, we have made the problem of sis ii a top priority. i shall try to give you some details. the commission's main contractor for the development of sis ii has carried out an operational test campaign on the central system interacting with a number of national systems. between november and december 2008, the results of these tests led us to conclude that the central system had not reached the contractual level. as early as mid-november, the commission launched an in-depth analysis exercise of the sis ii solution, currently being developed by hewlett-packard/steria, in collaboration with member states' experts and with the help and assistance of two renowned it consultancy firms. following the failure of the operational tests, we have therefore implemented an analysis and repair plan estimated to last four months. the objective of this plan is to bring the application and implementation of sis ii to a satisfactory level of stability and performance. the plan aims, firstly, to fix known bugs related to the central system a number of bugs have already been fixed and, secondly, to verify that the application, implementation of sis ii is not affected by insurmountable structural weaknesses. targeted testing is being carried out in a number of priority areas to remove uncertainties in the architecture of the current solution, this activity being carried out in parallel with the finalisation of the technical analysis of the fundamental problems. on the other hand, the commission has put in place a global approach to project management to better integrate the central and national components of sis ii, while respecting the legally established competences of the commission and the member states. in concrete terms, the commission is coordinating a common project management structure. this common management structure brings together the national project managers, the central project managers and the commission's contractors. this structure will accompany the project throughout the analysis and repair period, then during the qualification tests, then during the migration phase, until the start of sis ii. at the end of the analysis and repair period we will have a clear idea of the means still to be used to start up sis ii and the corresponding timetable, as vice-premier vondra has just said. the objective of putting sis ii into operation in september 2009 will undoubtedly be delayed. the current difficulties of the sis ii project were discussed at the informal ministerial meeting on 15 january and at the justice and home affairs council on 26 and 27 february. the broad lines of the approach advocated by the commission for the continuation of the sis ii project were accepted. first, the need to continue the analysis of the feasibility of an alternative technical solution based on the current sis i+ was supported by the council. we are therefore in a position to continue this feasibility analysis of an alternative solution. but any alternative technical solution will of course have to be in accordance with the legal framework for sis ii as adopted by you and the council. of course, great care will have to be taken to ensure maximum reuse of investments and to the situation of the member states and associated countries which intend to join the schengen area in the coming years. the ministers agreed to meet, as has just been said, in june at the latest - early june - to take stock of the progress made and, if necessary, to define new guidelines and, if necessary, to switch to an alternative option. with this in mind, the council requested that, as soon as possible and no later than may 2009, the presidency and the commission, in close cooperation with the sis ii task force and in consultation with the appropriate bodies, present to the council a report containing a detailed assessment and comparison of the two scenarios. to this end, common criteria for comparison were agreed to assess the respective merits and disadvantages of each solution. clearly, this means that we will indeed have a council decision at the beginning of june, in the light of all the tests that have been carried out, and this will allow, we believe, to continue with sis ii or, possibly, to move towards an alternative solution but which will of course remain in line with the objectives you have defined. i was of course very sensitive to what mr coelho and mrs roure said, namely the need for greater transparency. i would like to say that we will send and will continue to send reports from the sis ii committee on a very regular basis. i should also like to say that i have written to mr gérard deprez, chairman of the committee on civil liberties, with a copy to mr carlos coelho, to inform him in detail of the situation with regard to sis ii. i also want to tell mr lax that the problems of sis ii do not affect the vis. the problems of sis ii do not concern the infrastructure shared with the vis. the vis follows very closely, so to speak, the planning agreed with the member states. what i want to say is that we have really arranged, both with this task force and within the commission, extremely regular meetings with the co-contractor and both co-contractors, but especially steria, and that we can really hope, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that this matter will be brought to a conclusion in the coming months, with this decision of a deadline, which will be the beginning of june, and during which the council will indeed have to take a decision. i can assure you that parliament will be kept informed of all these developments.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the question of the operability of the schengen ii information system was again discussed at the february 2009 council meeting and the need for an immediate solution to the current deadlock in sis ii was once again underlined. however, i have the impression that rather than answers, more and more questions are arising from the debate on sis ii. the council supports the implementation of a review and remediation plan to identify problems in the technical architecture of sis ii with a view to ensuring its stability and reliability. the council does not, however, rule out the possibility of adopting a technical alternative capable of achieving the objectives which sis ii has set itself. whatever option is applied, it must not have any impact on the accession timetable of countries not yet included in the schengen area. i would like to know what measures the commission will take to avoid possible delays and how the additional costs of these changes will be covered. the example of romania is conclusive: romania has 2 000 km of external border, the integration into schengen scheduled for march 2011 is a priority and all these hesitations may have consequences on compliance with this deadline. i'd like to mention one more thing. as the commission prepares to draw up a new legislative proposal on the next steps in border management, i ask the commission to first assess the effectiveness of the current border management systems with a view to achieving optimal synergies between them and then to analyse the appropriateness of investments in border logistics. in order to achieve the union's strategic objectives, the commission should not launch the creation of new tools from scratch until existing ones, such as sis ii or vis, become operational and reliable.
in writing. i believe that the project to improve the european union's external border management mechanism should not be seen as an attempt to stop migration as a process. the real purpose of eu border security measures is not necessarily to stem immigration flows, but to control them closely. the right management of migration is a positive factor for the societies and economies of the eu member states. i would like to stress that the european union should pay more attention to the management of its peripheral borders where there are conflict zones. the work carried out so far by the european union border assistance mission between the republic of moldova and ukraine (eubam) is highly commendable, characterised by the establishment of a single customs regime at the border, the creation of barriers to smuggling and the reduction of the activity of criminal groups. on the other hand, the ongoing unresolved transnistrian conflict makes it quite difficult for the moldovan authorities to manage this border segment, where a large flow of illegal migration continues to persist. i would like to express my conviction that the european union has sufficient political, economic and security leverage to curb the above-mentioned illegal actions, including to become more actively involved in resolving the frozen conflicts on its eastern peripheries.
in writing. i congratulate ms ria oomen-ruijten on this well-written report. i want to emphasize two points: 1) firstly, i believe that the eu should encourage the further development of pro-european, modern, secular elites in turkey, but also the dissemination of european values and quality information on european integration. to this end, the eu must support more actively the reform of education in turkey, guaranteeing university autonomy, developing european integration studies and the erasmus programme. students, researchers and teachers who wish to study eu institutions and policies in depth should be encouraged and supported. 2) secondly, in parallel with supporting the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, the eu must firmly condemn ethnic separatist actions. i am referring to kurdish separatism in turkey and turkish separatism in cyprus, but there are other examples. the eu must support the firm application of the principles of territorial integrity and good neighbourliness with turkey, iraq, cyprus and the other countries in the region.
in writing. the commission's annual progress report on turkey as a candidate country in 2008 is balanced. although the reform process should be boosted and eight negotiating chapters remain stalled, the commission particularly appreciated turkey's recent diplomatic activity and its role in promoting regional stability. the events of summer 2008 underlined turkey's strategic role, including in the energy field. in the field of regional cooperation, turkey's constructive role in its neighbourhood and in the middle east through active diplomacy is noted. developments in the caucasus have highlighted turkey's strategic importance for eu energy security, in particular through the diversification of transport routes. the document underlines the importance of close cooperation in the field of energy between the eu and turkey, with the nabucco project being a key element. following the launch of negotiations between the greek and turkish cypriot leaders to reach an agreement on the cyprus problem, it is crucial that ankara continue to support the search for a solution and the efforts of the un to that end. eu enlargement and the further european integration of the western balkan states are priority issues for romania. romania supports the substantial progress of the negotiations with turkey, a process whose dynamics are likely to stimulate internal reforms.
in writing. eu member states should show more solidarity and tolerance towards the acceding countries. my country, romania, was not ready for accession, there are still shortcomings in the field of minority rights, but hungary did not prevent romania's accession, because for it the most important thing was european solidarity and tolerance. the accession countries will of course have to take greater steps to guarantee human and minority rights, but the countries that are already members of the eu should also set a good example. i therefore consider it important to call on the eu member states in particular:- to sign and ratify the charter for minority and regional languages; - to repeal the law introducing the concept of collective offence in force in one of the eu member states; - to learn from the example of kosovo and to guarantee the cultural and territorial autonomy of traditional national minorities in the territory of the eu countries that have already joined.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i think this debate is a timely one and that mrs neyts-uyttebroeck’s report includes a number of important recommendations. it gives me the opportunity to raise an issue which is central to our policy towards the western balkans. the work of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) is an essential element in rendering justice, coming to terms with the past and moving forward. it is also key to strengthening the rule of law in the region. this can be a slow, and at times difficult, process, but the icty has made important progress. so far it has completed proceedings against 116 accused with very different verdicts. only two of 161 indictees remain at large. when the icty was set up in 1993 the domestic judicial systems in the former yugoslavia were unprepared for dealing with crimes of this scale. yet it was clear that they had to be addressed. no contract, no agreement, no society can be sustainable without justice. our strategy towards the region is to assist in stabilising the countries of the western balkans and helping them realise their eu perspective. a central element of that policy is cooperation with the icty. we support its mandate in several ways. firstly, the countries of the western balkans are part of the stabilisation and association process (sap). this process depends on respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities, fundamental freedoms and the principles of international law and regional cooperation. it also depends on full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. sap conditionality is monitored through the annual progress reports prepared by the commission. the next progress reports will be published in october 2009. in addition, human rights and rule-of-law issues, including strengthening the functioning, impartiality and responsibility of the judiciary system, and the fight against corruption and organised crime are key priorities of the eu’s european partnership with the countries of the western balkans. these are updated on a regular basis. furthermore, the council has adopted two common positions aimed at supporting the implementation of the mandate of the icty by imposing an assets freeze on indicted fugitives and a travel ban on persons assisting icty indictees to evade justice. these common positions are regularly extended and updated. the european union will support the work of the icty until it has been completed. i entirely agree that in the longer term the legacy of the icty must be preserved. whenever this happens – and it is not a matter for the eu to decide – the domestic judicial systems will need to be ready to take over the icty’s files. this is one of the reasons why the emphasis we have placed on judicial reform and good governance in the sap is so important. the work of ngos and individuals, such as the humanitarian law centre in belgrade and the research and documentation centre in sarajevo, who are seeking after the truth, also deserves our full support. let me close by thanking this parliament for your support in this area and in particular for this helpful and constructive report.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome the initiative and report by mrs neyts-uyttebroeck. this initiative and report send a very welcome signal about the commitment of the european parliament to support the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty). for the commission it is clear that the international community must maintain its full support for the icty to complete its remaining tasks. there can be no impunity for war crimes and, as you well know, full cooperation with icty is a condition for making progress in european integration. this necessary condition affects the eu accession process of serbia today and it has affected croatia. i hope it will not affect croatia again, on condition that croatia maintains full cooperation with icty. this principle also includes the handling of war crime cases that are referred back to domestic jurisdiction by the icty. we have provided financial support and we are intensifying our support and efforts at capacity-building in this important field, especially in bosnia and herzegovina which has by far the largest caseload. the commission has recently approved funding for a project initiated by chief prosecutor serge brammertz on internships in his office to train visiting war crime prosecutors and young professionals from south-east europe. we are also working with chief prosecutor brammertz on other projects including a regional conference for war crime prosecutors from the western balkans. that will take place in brussels in early april, next month. all in all, the commission remains fully committed to icty and continues to support mr brammertz and his dedicated colleagues in efforts to bring to justice those who are responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law and thus we want to support this important work contributing towards reconciliation and the maintenance of peace in the western balkans. i look forward to continuing to work together with parliament in this regard.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs neyts, and i welcome the report on the mandate of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, to which i have contributed with a few amendments, and which raises a number of real problems which we have a duty to consider. we must ensure that the results achieved so far by this court in punishing war crimes and promoting reconciliation in the western balkans bear fruit. the work of the court must be carried to completion. it is also necessary to assess the results achieved so far, and in particular the objectives that have not yet been achieved. on the basis of that assessment, the council should consider extending the mandate for as long as necessary. of course, the work of this court cannot go on indefinitely; so we have to make sure that there is a mechanism to continue to provide the residual functions that are currently being fulfilled for as long as it takes. i welcome the proposal to the united nations security council to establish an institution to this end. another measure that i consider crucial for the development of sustainable institutional capacity in the western balkans is the creation of a set of standards and benchmarks for the judicial systems in these countries to support national courts.
president-in-office of the council. − i am not among the greatest defenders of the cap. i am generally in favour of continuing reform of the cap, but i hope that we will not be in a situation of importing liquid or dried egg. also, i believe that most of the ec’s standards regarding placement on the market are based not just on what we have agreed here in europe but on the internationally agreed codex alimentarius standards and the un economic commission for europe standards. it is important that everybody follow certain standards, and that we do not create the conditions which would seriously undermine this. tbt agreements oblige the wto and its members to ensure that technical regulations, voluntary standards and conformity assessment producers do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade.
president-in-office of the council. − in december 2008, the poznań conference agreed on a work programme for 2009, which clearly identified steps towards the copenhagen climate conference to be held in december 2009. poznań has also sent the message that the current financial crisis is not to be seen as an obstacle to further action on climate change, but instead as yet another opportunity for transforming profoundly our economic system and moving toward a low-carbon economy. that being said, we have to be aware that we will not have an easy time in doing so. the economic downturn will affect the willingness of the stakeholders involved to absorb additional costs related to the reduction commitments, as well as mitigation and adaptation measures. the czech presidency intends to pursue efforts at international level towards a successful agreement in copenhagen in december. as you know, as a follow-up to the commission communication called ‘towards a comprehensive climate change agreement in copenhagen’ and on the basis of the input of the temporary committee on climate change set up by the european parliament, the council adopted conclusions on this issue last week, thereby further developing the eu position on a comprehensive post-2012 agreement. the forthcoming european council is also expected to agree key political messages. in addition to the shared vision of the long-term action on mitigation and adaptation as well as technology, the identification of appropriate means for financing effective and long-term climate policies is key in the eu’s position and will determine, to a large extent, the success of the copenhagen conference. the eu has already started to engage in active outreach not only with key negotiating partners and the main emerging economies but also with the new us administration, which has already signalled its readiness to engage again in a meaningful way. the presidency has had its first meeting with the new us administration and plans to have further exchanges as soon as possible. climate change will be one of the topics discussed during the informal eu-us summit in prague on 5 april. the first signals coming from washington are, in any case, encouraging so it will be crucial to ensure good cooperation between the eu and the us in order for our positions to be as ambitious as possible and to ensure that, consequently, the major emerging economies will follow suit. for the eu’s efforts to fight climate change to deliver, it is absolutely crucial that we bring other major world co2-producing economies on board. it is for this reason that several of these countries have also been invited to the g8 meeting – south africa, egypt, china, india, australia, mexico, brazil, indonesia and south korea. as far as the climate and energy package is concerned, by reaching agreement on this package in december 2008, the eu sent a very strong political signal to all its negotiating partners in the world. now we will start its implementation, which involves a lot of technical work. aware of the need to determine in further detail the criteria which the european union would wish to apply in deciding to move from a 20% to a 30% reduction, the council is currently considering the issues of complementarity of effort and of the adequacy of possible developing country actions on the basis of the commission communication. the relevant text is included in the environment council conclusions of 2 march 2009.
in view of the effects of climate change, such as long periods of drought, the decline in drinking water resources and the desertification of large areas of european territory, i would like to ask the council whether it is considering the development of a european irrigation system. i believe that investment in agriculture must be a priority in this time of economic crisis. agriculture is also of great importance to the european union's trade balance and we must ensure that european citizens have access to healthy, sufficient and affordable food.
president-in-office of the council. − i think it is in the conclusions of the environment council in early march. i do not have the papers with me so i will look carefully again. my feeling is that i have read this. we are ahead of the european spring council meeting and i would expect confirmation of all those ambitious goals. i do not know – and this raises some other questions – whether we will come up with an appropriate amount of money to put on the table for funds to help the developing countries with mitigation and adaptation, because we are just at the beginning of our talks with the us and other partners and it would not make sense to show our cards right now. the debate with the americans is ongoing. the deputy minister of the environment met carol browner early this month and martin bursík, who is the czech minister for the environment, is going to meet his partners in washington – i think later this week or early next month – so there is already a dialogue. yes of course we need to find common ground. there is the economic crisis; there are those ambitious environmental goals. you are right that we can find a lot of synergies and there is no need to fight. if you read the european economic recovery plans there are a lot of programmes which have a green cover or a green colour. at the same time a lot of public explanation lies ahead. the conditions in the member states of the eu are not necessarily always the same so i expect a lot of public work and public diplomacy lies ahead of us in this area.
president-in-office of the council. − as the honourable member has pointed out, improvement of road safety and reducing the high number of fatal accidents on community roads are among the priorities of the czech presidency for the transport sector. this is not surprising, as we are the country located right at the centre of the continent. traffic intensity and the related dangers are a top priority for us. sharing the same concerns as you and with a view to improving the current situation in the short term, the presidency intended to hold a ministerial debate at a council meeting in spring 2009 on future development in the area of road safety in the context of the preparation of a new action plan on road safety. however, in view of the fact that the commission has indicated to the presidency its intention to postpone the date of the adoption of this new action plan, the czech presidency considers this debate to be premature. one example of concrete action under our presidency in the field of road safety is a final negotiation between the council and the parliament on a proposal for a regulation concerning type-approval requirements for the general safety of motor vehicles. as you know, the presidency and parliament’s representatives managed to reach an agreement concerning this proposal and the european parliament adopted the regulation yesterday. the general safety regulation requires the mandatory fitting of electronic stability control systems on all vehicles, and an advanced emergency braking system and a lane-departure warning system on heavy duty vehicles. these new technologies can significantly improve vehicle safety and it is clear that road safety will benefit when they are introduced as the standard system on new vehicles. agreement at first reading will allow the obligatory introduction of electronic stability systems in new vehicles from 2011, one year earlier than foreseen in the original commission proposal. furthermore, the council has just started the examination of the commission’s action plan for the deployment of intelligent transport systems (its) in europe and the associated proposal for a directive laying down the framework for the deployment of intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and for interfaces with other modes of transport. both items have as one of their goals the improvement of road safety through the application of information and communication technologies to the road transport sector. the presidency intends to invite the ministers to adopt the council conclusions on the action plan at the council meeting in march 2009 and a general approach or a political agreement on the abovementioned proposal at the council meeting in june 2009. the role of the its in the area of road safety will also be discussed during the informal meeting of transport ministers to take place in late april in litoměřice in my country. intelligent transport systems and applications such as emergency call and driver hyper-vigilance systems, speed alerts and alcohol locks could make a considerable contribution to enhancing our road safety. electronic stability systems and ecall alone could save up to 6 500 lives a year in europe if they are fully deployed. given the importance the presidency attaches to road safety, it will examine any other proposals on these issues that the commission may present shortly, provided the limited time available until the end of june allows it.
the union hasn't done enough to reduce road accidents. road safety can be improved by investing in infrastructure, improving the behaviour of road users and by complying with road legislation. the european commission has proposed a directive on the cross-border prosecution of traffic fines. the european parliament has voted. what is the status and prospects of the approval of this dossier in the council of the european union?
madam president, i welcome the commission green paper and its objective of increasing the visibility of the issues around the eu health workforce and identifying challenges and action that can be taken. but i wish to take the opportunity to emphasise one aspect of the green paper, namely the training of the health workforce. i initiated written declaration 0095/2008 on this issue, which is ongoing. i strongly support the idea that it is absolutely essential to develop training communication courses for the health workforce in order to provide clearer and more complete information to patients. patients’ ability to understand health and medical issues and directions is closely related to the clarity of the communication. despite various initiatives to improve the quality and the availability of health information, studies indicate that patients want more information than they currently receive and that health professionals tend to overestimate the amount of information that is supplied.
mr president, the eastern partnership is a project which covers six countries. one of them, belarus, is a dramatic example of self-isolation, to which we have responded in the past with a policy marked by the ‘too little, too late’ syndrome, both in terms of sanctions and of incentives. belarus has little in common with, say, georgia. cooperation between mr lukashenko and mr saakashvili looks like political fiction and political horror combined. the other five countries are on the black sea, where we have a synergy – which means that there is no strategy yet. could the eastern partnership stand in for a black sea strategy? one could hardly imagine a regional strategy there without turkey and russia, but these particular countries are left out of the process. what all these countries have in common is the fact that they were all part of the soviet union, and they are all neighbours of russia as much as they are neighbours of the european union. in other words, we are dealing with a common neighbourhood. russia looks to that neighbourhood as being its reserved sphere of interest. we certainly cannot accept that but, on the other hand, the eastern partnership appears to be a way to reciprocate the russian policy on its neighbourhood. this makes that neighbourhood an area of conflicting interests and rivalry. the real challenge is how to develop an eu-russia common policy in respect of their common neighbourhood. otherwise we will not achieve security and stability there, but the opposite. as far as everything else is concerned, we already have democracy and good governance, economic integration and convergence, energy security and human contacts on the agenda. from this point of view, ukraine is much further advanced than the others, and i assume that it is not very happy to see that our offer now has to be shared with the others. the real problem was not the lack of labels but the lack of delivery. by putting our money where our mouth is – and of course, madam commissioner, you are perfectly right to say that we need a budget in order to make good policy – and by adding a little visionary realism instead of naive confrontation, we might really transform the eastern partnership into a valuable and positive asset.
the eastern partnership initiative is of particular importance and a set of tools to facilitate its implementation needs to be implemented as soon as possible. i welcome the collaborative platform promoted by this new partnership framework, because the need to recalibrate the relationship with our neighbours is vital, not only to make our cooperation with them more efficient, but also to be able to solve the major problems we face today - the economic crisis, energy security - which cannot be managed exclusively at the domestic level. the partnership shall stimulate projects of the utmost importance to the union by promoting an institutionalised framework that places both the relationship with neighbours and intra-regional cooperation in the neighbourhood at a higher level. there are priority projects that are indispensable to tackling the energy crisis: those in the black sea region and those using resources in the caspian sea area. they can only be implemented in a secure neighbourhood and close relationship with relevant regional actors, based on mutually beneficial joint commitments.
mr president, my speech looks at the relationship between the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. in my opinion, the main obstacle is finding the synergy’s proper place in this increasingly complex picture of eu initiatives towards the east. consequently, the real substantive issues of the black sea area, like energy and frozen conflicts, are approached either through: the eu neighbourhood policy, where the money is; the future eastern partnership, designed to increase the security confidence of the countries involved and secure the energy deliveries to the eu after the georgian war; the eu’s strategic relationship with russia and ukraine; or the accession talks with turkey. what then, is, left for the black sea synergy to achieve? not much, i should say, apart from seminars and studies on how to extend the existing european initiatives towards the area and non-political issues. it is, therefore, necessary to improve the substance, too, of the framework known as ‘synergy’ if one wants to maintain its credibility.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is already widely acknowledged that brazil has become an increasingly significant regional and global player. the crucial role brazil played in the establishment of unasur is just one more confirmation of the country’s reputation and deserves clear recognition, as does brazil’s endeavour to support and influence the democratic evolution of some countries in latin america. i agree with the rapporteur that brazil and the european union share the same values regarding democracy, the rule of law and the promotion of human rights, and share the same principles on market economy. therefore it is clear why brazil is a key partner for the european union. for several years, brazil has enjoyed an economic growth which i hope will not be too badly affected by the current ravaging economic crisis. unfortunately, however, the economic development and accumulation of wealth in brazil did not translate into the eradication of poverty. as the report notes, brazil still has a high number of poor people and it is a sad reality that the concentration of wealth is based on cultural and racial grounds. it should be emphasised that 65% of the poorest brazilians are black or of a mixed ethnicity, while 86% of the most privileged are white. i appreciated president lula’s idea that his government should not fight wealth but poverty. i am convinced that eu support and assistance would be beneficial in trying to put an end to this polarisation between the very poor and the very rich. but, in order to do this, we need the financial assistance available under the development cooperation instrument for brazil to be used to support the achievement of the millennium development goals and for sustainable development purposes. at the same time, the european union needs to continue to focus on the topic of combating deforestation. this is a key issue, as brazil has a rich but fragile environment. we need not only to develop strong partnerships, but also to coordinate with other donors and have projects that should put words into action as far as the protection of the environment is concerned. our strategic partnership should also support the development of a strong brazilian civil society, encouraging contacts between european and brazilian ngos, entrepreneurs and businesspeople fora, and should promote exchanges on an educational and cultural level. cooperation on higher education under the erasmus mundus programme or other biregional schemes should be viewed as an investment in what is the most precious capital of a country, its human resources.
i would like to express my support for mr salafranca's report. i believe that after the implementation of the global agreement we must move to the historic high stage of the strategic partnership between the european union and mexico. this partnership was made necessary by mexico's importance on the world political and economic scene, as well as its very close economic relations with the european union. mexico has a population of over 100 million people, it's the tenth largest economy in the world, it's a member of the g20. in the context of global challenges such as the economic crisis and global warming, cooperation with mexico will prove useful. it is natural to want the new partnership to institutionalize the annual eu-mexico summits, following the model of high-level meetings that work in the eu's relations with other strategic partners. we must also support the parliamentary dimension of this partnership through the joint parliamentary commission european union - mexico and the eurolat assembly, which have played a particularly beneficial role in recent years. in the context of the european year of creativity and innovation, i believe that we need to pay greater attention to cooperation between the european union and mexico in the fields of research, culture, education, scientific and student mobility. mexicans are the largest spanish-speaking people in the world, share common cultural values with europeans, and have affinities with romanian cultural heritage, based on their latin heritage. for example, an exhibition held in july 2005 at the museum of the romanian peasant in bucharest proved the striking similarity between mexican folk art and many romanian folk art creations. i believe that the institutions of the european union should make greater use of the potential that culture, education and the arts have for bringing people together. last but not least, i believe that the strategic partnership should contribute, among other things, to guaranteeing the safety of european citizens travelling to mexico. mexico has tremendous tourist potential and magnificent historical cultural treasures, it is a favorite destination for many europeans and they should not be endangered by the crime and corruption that is manifest in some parts of the country. the fight against crime can be made more effective through trilateral cooperation between mexico, the european union and the united states.
i consider the cooperation agreement between the european union and mexico and the european union and brazil to be of great importance. these cooperation agreements must be based on respect for the values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. i would like to stress the need to step up efforts between the european union and the two countries to promote scientific and technological transfer with a view to strengthening genuine cooperation in combating climate change and improving the environment. the comprehensive support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises will make a fundamental contribution to the economic and social development of these countries. especially in this period of global economic crisis, it is important to create and preserve jobs and to continue efforts to meet the millennium development goals. as rapporteur for the agreement between the european community and the united mexican states on certain aspects of air services, i will stress the importance of this agreement. it promotes free competition in air services. the united mexican states may impose, on a non-discriminatory basis, as appropriate, levies, taxes, duties, fees or charges on fuel supplied in its territory to aircraft of the air carrier designated by a member state of the european community operating on a route between a point in the united states and another point in another state on the american continent. i would like to mention that this is extremely important, especially in view of the implementation of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the two countries, brazil and mexico, are also of particular importance for the conclusion of the future post-kyoto agreement, which we hope to conclude in copenhagen in december.
in writing. i believe that the eu-brazil strategic partnership is beneficial for both sides. the european union is, in my view, a pole of democracy and europe is the cradle of our civilization. brazil, as a strategic partner, represents a pole of balance and stability in latin america. strengthening the eu-brazil link can create a common framework within which the two entities can develop, thus contributing to increased cooperation between the two regions. the eu-brazil strategic pact can be, in my view, but also in the rapporteur's view, an instrument through which democracy and human rights can be promoted. it can also help to promote good governance at global level and good cooperation within the un. i support the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation to the council on the strategic partnership between the european union and brazil and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
commissioner, i would like to thank you for the balanced position, which was reiterated once again today in the plenary of the parliament. for all meps, the eu's relationship with china is a strategic one, and has and will have major global consequences. i would have expected to discuss european union cooperation with china to reform the global financial system, given china's balanced and constructive stance, especially now, ahead of the g20 summit in london. maybe it was time to put africa on the common agenda, given the major role china plays there, and i could continue. despite this evidence, despite the european commission's agenda with china, in contrast to the much more consistent and balanced agenda of the 27 member states with china, i regret to see that we in the european parliament are turning this strategic relationship into the subject and prisoner of the electoral campaign of the political groups. human rights are and should be the first priority, but i can't be the only one.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree that europe needs more researchers. this report is very important because, among other things, it urges member states to improve existing career opportunities for young researchers, for example through better funding and promotion based on achievements, such as innovation capacity, internships in companies, etc., rather than seniority.
in writing. − on a student's path to research, physical mobility must be promoted as an educational experience that cannot be replaced by virtual mobility. we need to make sure that the brightest minds have the right capital and human resources to support them. for some, this could mean accessing resources beyond the borders of their home country. the benefits (e.g. added value) associated with the mobility of students, teachers and researchers must be promoted and made known. administrative and structural barriers must be removed; scholarships and loans for students and researchers should be available, alongside other incentives for both individuals and institutions. internationalisation policy needs to take into account: the crucial importance of researchers with international experience; real language opportunities; the need to give all prospective student researchers the opportunity to obtain a number of foreign language credits, regardless of specialisation; their good quality and information on study and research opportunities abroad.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr toine manders, which deals with the subject of video games with particular attention. the video game market is a global market that is constantly expanding. but video games are no longer just for children, as more and more of them are designed specifically for adults. that is why the content of many games is inappropriate and perhaps even dangerous for our children. it is true that video games can be used for educational purposes, but only if they are used in the way intended for each age group. therefore, we must pay particular attention to the pegi system for the classification of games. the pegi online version helps parents and minors by providing both advice on the protection of minors and information on various aspects of online gaming. the report also highlights the need for member states to ensure appropriate controls on online purchases of video games, in order to prevent minors from accessing games with age-inappropriate content, intended for adults or another age group. the rapporteur also proposes the creation of a 'red button' enabling parents to disable a game with age-inappropriate content or restrict access to minors at certain times.
in writing. − soil degradation is a problem that cannot be ignored and i welcome the initiative of a report specifically dedicated to combating this phenomenon. agriculture is the best way to stop this phenomenon, as long as it is done in accordance with the pedoclimatic characteristics. as i have stressed in the amendments tabled and accepted by the committee on agriculture, i believe that this report must be valid throughout the european union. unfortunately, climate change and soil degradation are no longer isolated phenomena, and our approach must be coherent across the union, based on the principle of solidarity. as the rapporteur points out, we need not only to recognise this problem of soil degradation but also to allocate the financial resources needed to combat its negative effects. i am pleased that the european economic recovery plan provides for eur 500 million for actions to adapt to the new challenges of climate change, but these are short-term actions. i believe that the european union needs an integrated strategy, backed up financially, to act to prevent and combat the effects of climate change, in particular soil degradation.
in writing. − climate change is accelerating land degradation and desertification, particularly in the states of south-east europe, including romania. this is why these phenomena must be tackled in a coordinated way, through a consistent review of agricultural policies and through the exchange of experience and good practice between member states, under the coordination of the european commission. i'm sure there are many examples of effective soil and water management and the use of resilient crops that can regenerate the soil. there are research institutes that specialize in this field, one of them right in the county i represent, dolj, in romania. sharing these experiences and extending their application to areas affected by desertification can lead to the return of degraded land to the agricultural circuit and, consequently, to the reinvigoration of production. the pilot project proposed for the community budget for 2009 is an opportunity to do so. i support the rapporteur's proposal to establish a european drought monitoring centre. i call on the european commission to take the utmost responsibility in tackling this issue in the context of the cap reform and to make available to member states an effective set of financial instruments to support the fight against desertification, to ensure sustainable agriculture and food security for european citizens.
in writing. - i welcome the report by our colleague on a subject of great social and economic importance. soil degradation affects the lives of people in those regions, but also the potential for economic development. in romania, we have seen in recent years the damage that this can cause: destroyed houses and people left without the basic means of subsistence, the reduction of up to 30-40% of agricultural production, a southern region in danger of desertification. the economic impact of this phenomenon is undeniable: the decline in the incomes of the citizens living in the affected regions, the increase in food prices. the european union is therefore obliged, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, to contribute to combating this phenomenon and to supporting those affected. as i proposed in written declaration no 21/2009 with my colleagues, the eu needs a special financial mechanism to prevent and combat the effects of climate change. a flexible financial mechanism to allow for the rapid release of funds, accompanied by a medium and long-term strategy and action plans that take account of the different impacts of climate change on eu regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i support this initiative which calls for the member states to develop cooperation mechanisms to prevent the harmful effects on families, especially children, caused by the separation of parents and the distances between them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution to improve the situation of children who are left in their country of origin by their parents who go abroad to work. i would like to stress, however, that a commitment to this is not enough. we need concrete measures to ensure the normal development of children in terms of their health, education and social life and to guarantee their successful integration into society and later into the labour market. for example, national authorities must develop a series of specific educational programmes to deal with this problem, and the beneficiaries of such programmes should be not only the children but also their migrant parents. they should also be involved in information and empowerment programmes to inform them of the negative effects of their going abroad to work on family life and, in particular, on their children.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on migrant children who are left in their country of origin, because i believe that the situation of these children needs to be substantially improved. every child has the right to a family and to an education, so that they can develop harmoniously. i believe we must support these children, because they too represent the future of europe and the european union.
in writing. − we supported this report which comprehensively describes turkey's relationship with the eu and the process required to obtain membership. and i, like those i represent, strongly support turkey's candidacy for the eu, and that's not just because of the good relations between our countries. we truly believe that the union has immense potential for transformation. as citizens of eastern european countries can attest, gaining a clear european perspective radically changes both a country's internal public discourse and its foreign policy options. i am convinced that once turkey's membership becomes a matter of 'when' rather than 'if', the tensions fuelling the current social polarization will be easier to resolve. this is why the eu must give turkey a clear signal that its accession procedure will be completed within a reasonable timeframe, providing the necessary impetus for the reform process and cooperation on matters of common interest. on the other hand, this does not change the fact that, until then, the eu expects the turkish authorities to consistently and unequivocally assume the role of partner and future eu member, including in its relations with actors in the middle east and eurasia.
in writing. − as a social democrat, i voted in favour of this report to support turkey in the accession process and i ask the commission and the eu council to speed up the negotiation process, including the opening of the energy chapter especially in the current conditions of the economic crisis and taking into account the important role that turkey can play by contributing to europe's energy security. i also welcome the adoption by the turkish parliament in may 2008 of the employment package aimed at promoting employment opportunities for women, young people and people with disabilities, although i am concerned about the poor state of the labour market, which provides jobs for only 43% of the working population, and in particular about the decline in the overall employment rate of women. i support the calls on the turkish government to continue to take tangible steps to strengthen the role of women in the political, economic and financial sectors, for example through temporary measures to ensure their active involvement in politics.
in writing. − i believe that the eu institutions must continue to support the international criminal court in the hague. this court has tried many war criminals, but at the same time we must also consider the wider significance of its decisions, that of contributing to the process of reconciliation between the peoples of the western balkans. i draw attention to the fact that some of the charges or judgments issued by the hague tribunal have been considered controversial in different regions of the western balkans. lessons that are part of the tribunal's legacy can be drawn from these reactions. these reactions also underline the need for a board of appeal and a public information programme. let's not forget, though, that many other war criminals have yet to be tried. the eu institutions must support investigations carried out at national level in the western balkan states. the eu council should establish clear rules for assessing the performance of the judiciary in the states of the region after the end of the mandate of the international tribunal. the guilty must be judged and punished fairly, individually, according to their deeds. justice must be the same for all.
in writing. − sustainable development cannot be achieved without the protection and proper management of the vital resource of water. i strongly support paragraphs 15 and 16 of the resolution to support local public authorities in their efforts to achieve efficient, transparent and regulated water management that respects the sustainable development goals, so as to meet the needs of the population. i join the call to the commission and the council to recognise the fundamental role of local authorities in water protection and management, to make them accountable for the management of the water sector, and i regret that european co-financing programmes do not give more value to the competences of local authorities. for romania, which has obtained the transition period until 2018, it is essential that investments are accelerated, especially now, when poor populations are the most vulnerable to climate change and also the least able to adapt to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation to the council on the eu-brazil strategic partnership because i believe that it is beneficial for both sides and can contribute to developing the link between these two entities in order to promote the common good in both areas and throughout the world.
the european union is first and foremost a social europe. we need economic development, but we also need jobs, decent wages and pensions, access to good quality health and education. in times of economic crisis, many businesses are in difficulty and workers lose their jobs. in romania, at arcelor mittal galați and hunedoara, several thousand employees will rotate into technical unemployment, with only 75% of their salaries paid, or are fired. similar situations exist in other countries and for other enterprises in different industrial sectors. i ask the commission to consider drawing up a council decision to revise the criteria for access to the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. this must be done at the branch and enterprise level and not just at the regional and local level, so that funds can be mobilised quickly to help workers in crisis. i believe that europe can and must do more for workers in difficulty.
many of us have spoken today about the need for solidarity and i will continue on this idea. the european union's energy independence and the solidarity of its member states around this objective are more necessary than ever. our action must be united and coherent in the face of the risks, but also in the face of the need to diversify resources. i congratulate the european council on the agreement reached on the economic recovery plan, the focus on energy and the financing of the nabucco project. i call on the european commission to find swift and effective ways of ensuring that this funding is effective and produces the necessary results, not only in the energy sector but also in the economic sector, which is heavily affected and threatened by protectionism. to resort to protectionism is the worst thing that can happen to us, to emerging and developed economies alike.
mr president, i would like to speak about a very important issue related to the european prize for literature. the prize is financed by the cultural programme of the european union, and it aims to put the spotlight on creativity in the field of contemporary fiction. i think it is a very good initiative, but i have my concerns about its implementation. i have been contacted by cultural organisations from my country that are unhappy because romania is not included this year in the programme. indeed, out of 34 eligible countries, only 12 are included each year in this programme. the legitimate question is how the remaining countries, including romania, could take an active part if they are not included at all in the programme. so i would like to bring this problem to your attention, and i hope we will find, together with the european commission, a convenient way to settle this problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this year will be a turbulent one for europe. we are facing challenges unprecedented in european history. we have to fight against the economic and financial crisis, against the energy crisis, against climate change, against terrorism that threatens everything we have built up to date. that's why it's more important than ever that we stick together. we must take a stand against anti-european rhetoric, against the ultra-nationalist elements which are destructive and dangerous. in the current context, citizens who are dissatisfied with the deepening of the crisis phenomenon and beyond can be easily manipulated by ultra-nationalists who use this unfavourable general context to strike at a united europe. i remind you that the effects of the crisis we are experiencing now would have been disastrous without the european union and the eurozone. i call on european politicians campaigning to take a firm stand against anti-european rhetoric. i appeal to them not to use elements of ultranationalism, chauvinism and "head speech" to get additional votes. thank you, sir.
the official discourse generated by the global economic crisis is that confidence in the world's financial system must be urgently rebuilt. today, trust is the keyword, and this is reflected in the european union's documents. i would suggest another keyword, cohesion, because cohesion, solidarity, is one of the fundamental values that is often mentioned, on which the european union is built. but i ask you, can we, outside the euro area, speak of the practice of solidarity when we are being advised to raise taxes and fees rather than rely on the eu crisis framework and its mechanisms, when it is precisely the principle of solidarity that the union operates on? should citizens of the central and eastern european member states give up hope of catching up to the eu standard of living within a deadline? i don't think you are. i am confident that the european position that the eu will present to our global partners at the forthcoming g20 summit will be one that is acceptable to all of us.
in recent days, hungarian communities in five eu countries have commemorated the hungarian war of independence and the hungarian revolution of 1948/49. the two most powerful armies in europe at that time were fighting side by side with the hungarians, poles, serbs, croats, swabians, germans, austrians, armenians and romanians for the freedom of the peoples, for the freedom of the world. we commemorate this event every march, as did the presidents of both countries. the romanian authorities have tried to prevent the entry of lászló sólyom, president of the republic of hungary, into romania in a manner unworthy of an eu country. what if they had tried to do the same thing to us president barack obama, who also welcomed and honored the 48th hungarian war of independence, and had come to romania? it would be good if we all understood that we live in a europe where we can respect each other's past and history, and celebrate each other's holidays.
i am a supporter of serbia's integrity and its accession to the european union. in this context, i call on the european commission to take concrete and effective measures to guarantee the rights of the romanian minority in the timoc valley. the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages must be effectively applied in the timoc valley in the craina, morava, pojarevac and timoc counties of eastern serbia. it's 2009 and i think it's time for the traditional ethnic romanian community in the timocului valley to have the right to proportional representation, to churches and schools in their native romanian language. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, and her two shadow rapporteurs, mrs ries and mrs grossetête, very warmly for the constructive and intensive cooperation which helped us to reach an agreement at first reading. it is a regulation which has three important results, three important advances: we are creating more security, we are creating more transparency for consumers and we are achieving a substantial simplification of existing legislation. we have all seen the focus of our work, particularly in the area of security. i would just like to make a few points. we are actually creating for the first time a real mechanism which i would like to call 'cosmetic surveillance', i.e. a constant monitoring of cosmetic products - something we already have in pharmaceutical products. we are intensifying market surveillance by the member states, and we are introducing mandatory traceability of cosmetic products. all these things apply to all producers, from the amateur to the wholesaler and retailer, that is to say to all the actors in the entire distribution chain. mrs roth-behrendt has already said something on the subject of nanomaterials. we have found a solution here which i would call model-like, because the same solution will be used again later this week in another important piece of legislation. the specific provisions on nanomaterials used in cosmetics provide for a mechanism for such information before the materials are placed on the market in the community. this ensures that relevant safety data are submitted and that the authorities have time to take any necessary safety precautions. there has been a long, very intensive and fruitful debate on whether substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction may be used in exceptional circumstances. i am very pleased that the council and parliament have agreed with the commission that we should stick to the general ban on these substances in cosmetics. the minimum exceptions proposed by the commission are only intended to avoid any inconsistency with food law, because it is not immediately obvious that alcohol may be drunk but not used in cosmetics. in addition to product safety, the proposal will improve consumer information. among other things, the list of ingredients shall indicate which substances are contained in nanoform. in addition, instruments are provided for the purposeful verification of the manufacturer's information. i am happy to confirm that the member states and the commission want to prevent the possibility of misleading consumers by working closely together on this issue. i said that this regulation is also part of our simplification programme. this is the removal of ambiguities and contradictions from a directive that is already 33 years old and has been amended 55 times since then. i don't think anyone could really understand her anymore. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also point out that the creation of a central system for the notification of cosmetic products before they are placed on the community market will bring cost savings for the industry. i have already mentioned that parliament, the council and the commission have worked together closely and constructively. i can agree with all the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, on behalf of the commission. the commission is also giving all the explanations requested by parliament on the question of a regulation instead of a directive, on the question of internet sales, on the question of counterfeiting of products, on the question of transitional provisions and the timeframe for the application of the regulation and on the question of the definition of nanomaterials. in order to save time, i would ask you to agree to these statements being sent to the chambers, since the content of them is already known to parliament. commission statementsthe commission takes note of the concerns of member states on the recasting of directives into regulations. the commission considers that where the existing provisions of a directive are sufficiently clear, precise and detailed, they may be capable of conversion into directly applicable provisions in a regulation by way of recasting. this is true more particularly where the provisions in question are of a technical nature and have already been fully transposed into national law by all member states. the commission accepts, in the light of the different opinions expressed, that the specific case of the cosmetics regulation will not be used as a precedent for the interpretation of the interinstitutional agreement on this point. the commission commits to clarifying the situation regarding internet sales of cosmetic products prior to the date of application of the regulation. like the european parliament, the commission is concerned that the cosmetics sector may be affected by counterfeiting which may increase risk for human health. therefore, the commission will take action in order to enhance cooperation between national competent authorities in order to fight counterfeiting. the commission will draft an explanatory note concerning transitional provisions and dates of application of the regulation (in particular in view of articles 7, 8, 10 and 12a). the commission notes that work towards a common definition of nanomaterials is still evolving. the commission therefore confirms that in future community legislation progress on the common definition should be taken into account and notes that the comitology procedures contained in this proposal also allow for the updating of the definition in this proposal.
on behalf of the pse group. cosmetics are certainly of great importance to european consumers and should therefore be given due attention. it considers it appropriate to initiate a review of the directive and replace it with a proposal for a regulation from the commission. this will remove legal inaccuracies and inconsistencies and avoid differences between transpositions into national legislation. as experience at european level has shown that the 'ingredient by ingredient' approach is neither viable nor sufficient, i believe that greater responsibility for producers and rigorous control of the internal market are our priorities. the use of nanomaterials is a promising solution in this area, with the intention that they will be evaluated and declared safe by the scientific committee for consumer products, while the use of alternative methods is an initiative that needs to be further supported. i believe that the involvement of the committee to which i referred is essential, as regards the use of substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic, to verify their use in the manufacture of cosmetic products. for the effective implementation of this regulation, i believe it is necessary for member states to carry out appropriate checks and, in the event of non-compliance, to report regularly to the commission.
the reporter. − i would like to stress that the agreement we reached with the commission and the council to extend the evaluation period for active substances until 2014 is a success, in order to create a regulated market for biodegradable products in good time. this was reflected in the outcome of the vote in the committee on the environment, and for this reason i would like to thank my colleagues who supported this compromise between the three institutions. the extension of the transition period is of the utmost importance to ensure that all biodegradable products containing active substances are lawfully placed on the market. i considered it essential that the directive be revised at first reading, in order to avoid the risk of exceeding the 10-year period for the systematic examination of biocidal products and, consequently, the risk of their withdrawal from the market from 2010 onwards. the extension will give member states time to assess these substances by 2014, when the actual revision of the biocidal products directive is likely to come into force. the commission is also proposing to limit to two years the possibility of extending the deadlines for remaining dossiers through the comitology procedure, in order to avoid the possibility of delaying the whole process indefinitely. the measure is necessary in the event that the revision of the directive will not be completed by 2014. the data protection and 'free riding' elements, whereby companies make use of information recorded by other companies in a national scheme, will hopefully be addressed in the actual revision of the biocidal products directive. i would like to point out that the amendments adopted in the committee on the environment are part of an agreement with the commission and the council, and they are in the final draft which will be voted on tomorrow in plenary. once the vote in plenary is complete, we will have the council's support to secure a first reading agreement.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i would like to thank the speakers for their constructive comments and i would like to say that, indeed, the evaluation of active substances is taking longer than was originally hoped. in 2000, when the legislation was adopted, the evaluation programmes did not start immediately, but some 4 years were spent with various preparatory procedures and only in 2004 the evaluation procedures started, which undoubtedly use the national competent authorities; and while there has been a lot of valuable and very important work done so far, it will not be possible for many of the active substances to have been evaluated by may 2010. since the directive provides that biocidal products containing active substances not listed in annex 1 or 1a thereto must be withdrawn from the market by 14 may 2010 at the latest, it was considered necessary to extend the deadline for completion of the evaluation procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data on the use of the active substance are not used for other purposes. this is particularly the case where companies which have not contributed to the effort to produce the data in question can nevertheless keep their product on the market until the end of a transitional period ('free riders'). the commission is in the final stages of preparing its proposal for a substantial revision of the biocidal products directive and this issue has been clearly identified in the consultations which took place during the formulation and drafting of this proposal. many of the remarks made by mr prodi and others will no doubt be taken into account. the commission will address the above issue in the context of the substantive revision of the directive. the commission statement in this connection will be forwarded to the secretariat of the european parliament for entry in the minutes of today's sitting. the commission will also be able to take account of the need to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected, and that the protection of personal data is not compromised by the use of the same technologies and technologies. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission is able to accept fully the proposed compromise amendments and is committed to taking into account, during the main revision of the directive, the data protection concerns expressed by both the council and parliament even today. commission statementthe commission takes note of the issues concerning data protection, data sharing and 'alleged free riders' that have been raised during the discussions on the proposal for the extension of certain time periods under the biocides directive. the commission will consider appropriate solutions to the identified problems in the framework of the substantive revision of the biocides directive.
the reporter. − i would like to thank again my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have worked very well and have been very efficient in finalising this report. as you have seen, all my colleagues have spoken about this revision, except for the report we are debating today, because it is a pending revision. it is true that we have heard here that this extension of the transitional period from three to four years is undesirable, but i think it is much more important to ensure that all products are marketed legally and that a fair valuation of these products is made. i thank you again and, as i said, we look forward to the review of the biocidal products directive very soon.
in writing. eu trade in goods with india more than doubled in value between 2000 and 2007; exports increased from eur 13.7 billion to eur 29.5 billion, while imports increased from eur 12.8 billion to eur 26.3 billion. india accounted for 2.4% of eu exports and 1.8% of eu imports in 2007 and was the eu's ninth largest trading partner. i welcome this report as it calls for a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced eu-india free trade agreement (fta) that will improve market access for goods and services, covering substantially all trade, including provisions on regulatory transparency in sectors relevant to mutual trade and investment, including standards and conformity assessment, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, intellectual property rights, including enforcement, trade facilitation and customs control, public procurement and trade and competition, and also trade and development and the human rights clause as an essential element of the fta. i stress that the als must contribute to: increasing bilateral benefits for a growing number of citizens, achieving the millennium development goals, including those on preventing environmental degradation and meeting social standards.
in writing. food prices have risen sharply recently. there are two reasons for this: on the one hand, the world food and agricultural crisis, and on the other, the concentration of the retail market, which has risen from 21.7% in 1990 to over 70% today. consumer prices are on average five times higher than those of the producer. supermarket chains often impose unfair conditions and make it difficult for farmers and small suppliers to access the market. i support the idea of the european commission to create a european market monitoring system. i support the idea of a european competition network. funds from the rural development programme should have higher allocations in favour of producers. the idea of revitalizing the concept of 'local produce', more effectively supporting traditional food markets are solutions that i strongly support.
in writing. i welcome the batzeli report which highlights the wide differences between the prices of agri-food products in supermarkets and those charged to producers. this is unfortunately also the case in countries with a standard of living well below the european average, such as romania. if we reject any proposal for price controls, we cannot but note that the bargaining power of supermarkets is excessive in relation to producers. and here we can act more firmly in the framework of competition and consumer protection policy.
in writing. the approach of the european parliament elections brings to the fore, as always, the problem of the lack of information and dialogue with citizens, which is specific to the european area. in this context, i welcome the motion for a resolution on active dialogue with citizens, which stresses the importance of involving the european institutions, the trans-european education system and the media. the rejection of the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands and the opposition to the lisbon treaty by referendum in ireland have shown that action by citizens with a low level of education is a viable and necessary strategy, which i fully support. given the high level of internet access in the member states of the european union, we should take advantage of this tool and use it to make the dialogue with citizens more effective. in this way, opinions could be recorded, which would then be evaluated and incorporated into our decision-making process. i also believe that the history and functioning of the union and the rights of citizens should be core components of the european curriculum. in this way, i am convinced, the premises can be secured for a coherent dialogue with citizens, who will approach europe and the european union from a different perspective, based on accurate information and knowledge.
in writing. the linguistic and cultural diversity of the union of 27 european states is an asset for understanding and cooperation, for cross-border labour mobility and for the assimilation of european values. it is important to continuously improve eu policies to encourage mother tongue education and to guarantee mutual interlingual intelligibility. we need cooperation between national authorities and the european commission to implement the most effective practices for integration by accepting linguistic differences. romania is one of the eu countries that provides a degree of protection and support above the european average for minorities, encouraging education in their own languages. the 'babes-bolyai' university in cluj-napoca is a shining example of promoting multilingualism. unfortunately, even at the european parliament, demonstrations were organized and initiatives were launched that, in the name of false discrimination, demanded the destruction of the university of "babes-bolyai" on the basis of separation on ethnic grounds. that is why i want to draw attention to the danger of exacerbating ethnic discourse. respect for minority rights and the promotion of multilingualism must not be perverted into a screen behind which work is done against the european spirit and interethnic harmony. multilingualism must be a common denominator, not a factor of division in the european union.
in writing. there are pragmatic arguments in favour of multilingualism: it reduces the risk of unemployment, increases the chances of employment, allows for an increase in the quality of services provided and labour productivity, facilitates mobility. we all know them; opinions converge on this point. i would like to emphasise here the importance of another reason for supporting multilingualism and related measures. multilingualism helps to affirm values and attitudes that are essential to the european social model: mutual understanding, trust and solidarity; it can help to achieve unity in a diverse world. to this end, we also insist on the need to preserve europe's linguistic diversity. one way to achieve this would be to learn, as a second foreign language, languages other than those of universal circulation. they can learn languages of their neighbours, of ethnic minorities in their own country, languages spoken in emerging economies with which relations are developing. i am confident that the positive effects of such a policy will be felt in everyday life.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mr graça moura, on the way in which he has succeeded in combining the general, regional and local interests in this draft report. personally, i have proposed that citizens who belong to an ethnic group speaking a minority language should thoroughly learn the official language of the state of residence. this would certainly be an advantage in finding a job and in ensuring a good social integration. unfortunately, the amendment was not approved by the committee, but i still strongly believe that it would be very useful. i also proposed that officials who, in the course of their work, frequently come into contact with citizens of other member states should be encouraged to learn a second european language. i think this is a good thing, given the migration of labour within europe, but also tourist mobility. only in this way can we encourage intercultural communication and understanding, the core values of the european union.
i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the preparation of the regional development package. i would like to congratulate mr van nistelrooij in particular on his extraordinary efforts. it has very well captured in the motion for a resolution the need for member states to implement measures aimed at achieving territorial cohesion. the green paper also emphasises that, alongside social and economic cohesion, territorial cohesion policy is one of the main objectives of the european union. european regions develop differently if they are not coordinated through a single policy at union level. territorial cohesion is a key element in the process of european integration and achieving convergence between regions. i believe that both now and in the future, special attention must be paid to the convergence regions in the union so that, in the shortest possible time, the existing wide disparities are significantly reduced. in my country, romania, there has been significant progress in the development of the regions, but we are faced with disparities both between and within them, and between the rural and urban environment. sustainable and balanced development of the regions must take place in conditions of efficient use of the resources specific to each area. for example, the western part of romania is characterized by the existence of numerous geothermal springs. by allocating sufficient funds to the region for the production of alternative electricity and the use of geothermal water, new jobs will be created and numerous economic benefits will be obtained. i consider the package discussed today to be particularly important for romania as well.
i would like to welcome first the idea of a strengthened debate on cohesion. i congratulate each of our colleagues on their work and on the proposals they have made. i will make a few comments on some of the issues territorial cohesion first. the fundamental issue is to ensure the harmonious development of all the territories of the european union, the partnership between urban and rural areas, in order to stop losing territory and respond to the depopulation of rural areas. in the absence of a definition of territorial cohesion, which parliament is awaiting, the integrated concept of economic, social and territorial cohesion is the basis for the future regional policy of the union and the format of the structural funds after 2009. as regards the krehl report, i support all the proposals in the report which support the european regions and concern the removal of obstacles, the simplification of procedures and their stability over time, as well as the proposal to create concentrated methods of interregional exchange of good practice. as regards the urban dimension of cohesion policy, we know that there is no common definition of urban. we also know that there are about 5 000 cities in europe with fewer than 50 000 inhabitants. romania has a significant number of such human settlements. i believe that for these types of urban settlements we need a development model and adequate resources, because they are the ones that are missing or not benefiting from the effects of the polycentric approach. as part of territorial cohesion, integrated sustainable urban development will, under the new treaty, be managed jointly by the member states and the union. local and regional authorities must be prepared for this approach, which is already established as multi-level governance. i support the idea of a mandatory minimum level per inhabitant of the funds allocated of eur 1000 compared to 500 in the previous period.
in 2010, the commission and the member states will review the way the structural funds are used and their absorption rate. i call on the member states to carefully redefine the priorities they have and intend to use the structural funds for. i believe that urban mobility, rural development, energy efficiency of buildings and the development of transport infrastructure should be among the priorities of the member states for the use of the structural funds for the period 2011-2013. as rapporteur for the energy efficiency of buildings, i called for the share of the erdf that member states can use for social housing and for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings to be increased from 3 to 15%. this would mean greater flexibility for member states and the possibility of accelerating the absorption of european funds to improve the quality of life of european citizens. especially in this period of crisis, public funds, and in particular the structural funds, must be used by member states to ensure economic development and job growth.
the structural and cohesion funds are a subject of intense debate for us, an opportunity that is much praised but unfortunately under-exploited. the reasons are many, ranging from bureaucracy, cumbersome or short-lived rules, difficult access to information and lack of transparency. i can tell you that many of the romanian applicants complain about problems related to the eligibility of expenditure, rules that are valid for too little time, cumbersome documentation and, of course, long deadlines for project evaluation. i am glad that the european commission has also begun to recognise these obstacles and that the proposals for amending the regulations, especially in the context of the economic crisis, include provisions to simplify the rules for the use of these funds. this is a first step and i would like to think that many of our proposals will be taken up by the commission. the solution to these problems is twinning and technical assistance programmes, but as i have argued in my amendments to mrs krehl's report, a programme at union level is needed. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. micro-credit and even loans to entrepreneurs from community funds are an institutional lever that can and must compensate for the gap left by commercial banks as a result of the financial crisis that is already hitting the real economy. a commercial bank is only useful to the economy as long as it provides credit, which is not the case today, despite the massive infusion of public money into various banks. in these circumstances, i propose that member states should no longer directly finance (troubled) commercial banks, so that they can cover their huge losses and/or improve their financial ratios with public money, to the delight of their shareholders and as a basis for even generous bonuses; it is right that they should not be left to the brink of bankruptcy. my proposal is to use commercial banks as mere intermediaries, commissioners in the granting of loans and micro-loans from public money to economic agents, entrepreneurs who, without financing, are also subject to the risk of bankruptcy. in conclusion, loans and microcredit should reach those who need them through banks, but not through their balance sheets, but only by using their expertise and network to facilitate the contracting of such financing.
in writing. improving access to micro-credit for business development for small entrepreneurs, the unemployed and disadvantaged people who want to start their own business and who do not have access to traditional banking lending instruments, together with the recent decision to reduce vat on some services, are solutions that the european union is putting at the disposal of member states to overcome the crisis. the latest analysis suggests that the services, agriculture and tourism sectors may represent the areas that can absorb a significant part of the available labour force on the labour market, including unemployed people, which is why romania and the other eu countries need to develop the necessary tools to apply this idea, especially within the non-banking market segment. i believe that these microcredits can be successfully used to develop services for businesses, individuals or households from computer scientists to window washers, gardeners, elderly and childcare workers and can help to bring skills and personal qualities to life in a successful business. a micro-credit can be accessed by companies with less than 10 employees. it's good for people who want to work and unemployed people who want to start a business. micro-enterprises account for 91% of european companies.
in writing. the green paper on territorial cohesion, entitled 'transforming territorial diversity into an asset', launches a broad consultation with regional and local authorities, associations, ngos and civil society in order to promote a common understanding of this new concept and its implications for the future regional policy of the eu, but does not provide a definition of 'territorial cohesion'. territorial cohesion aims to ensure the harmonious development of all eu territories and to enable all citizens to make the most of the inherent characteristics of these territories. the green paper proposes that diversity be turned into a tangible asset and competitive advantage, contributing to the sustainable development of the whole eu, and makes special reference to the need for effective governance of cohesion policy in order to make it more flexible. the main challenge is to help the territories to harness their capital and to exchange good practice. the report by mr van nistelrooij covers this vast area of territorial cohesion and provides useful consideration of the commission's communications in this area. the green paper on territorial cohesion thus remains open to new challenges, but it is transformed into an effective instrument for partnerships and the exchange of good practice.
in writing. cohesion policy and rural development measures are subsumed by the same principle of solidarity promoted by the european project and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. our analyses and decisions must take account of the different levels of agricultural development in the european union and the share of this sector in the economies of the member states, as well as the different situation of regional cohesion and development. i welcome the fact that the final version of this report includes my proposal to allow greater flexibility in the use of the structural funds so that they complement rural development measures. to ensure coordination and complementarity between cohesion policy and rural development measures, member states are required to put in place mechanisms to encourage the consistent and equitable use of european funds. at the same time, the european commission, through the instruments at its disposal, must better monitor the use of european funds at regional level, so as to ensure that rural areas are not harmed. this report is a first analysis of this issue, but it needs to be continued in order for the next financial perspective to ensure better coordination between eu financial support measures.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. as is well known, the implementation of the strategies and operational programmes for the period 2007-13 is still in its infancy and the scope of the report under discussion is therefore limited. however, i would like to note the efforts made by all member states to integrate the overall priorities of cohesion policy into the process of drawing up and negotiating operational programmes. the successful implementation of operational programmes depends very much on how quickly we can simplify procedures, promote measures to strengthen institutional capacity and, not least, identify the specific training needs of staff working with european funds. for better financial management of community expenditure, but also to ensure proper transparency in the management of funds, i believe it is particularly important that member states have effective monitoring systems. i also strongly believe that it is absolutely necessary to step up the process of informing public opinion in order to achieve a maximum absorption rate of funds and the development of viable projects.
in writing. at european union level, in the future eu regional and cohesion policy, disparities are considered to be caused by the structural deficiencies of regions in key competitiveness factors, in particular lack of innovation capacity and entrepreneurship. this could be remedied by a strategic approach, namely strengthening regional competitiveness across the eu, which is considered crucial both to strengthening the economy as a whole and to limiting the risks of congestion caused by the concentration of economic activities. we must reiterate once again that the elimination of these disparities would only be possible through a vast information process, through a dialogue between citizens and civil society, because otherwise the projects will continue to be inaccessible. similarly, the smooth implementation of eu-supported programmes and projects requires high-quality management and control systems. compliance with eu legislation, for example environmental and equal opportunities rules, is a precondition for project funding. before any payments other than advances are made, the commission must ensure that the management and control systems fully comply with the rules.
in writing. - mr alexander graf lambsdorff's report makes an important contribution to the european union's involvement in the work and transformation of the un and i am pleased to give it my support. the recommendations of this report reaffirm the constant concerns of most eu member states on the main themes of global policy and convincingly reiterate topics of interest to romania and the epp. among other things, the union's fundamental values require us to attach particular importance to the principle of the responsibility to protect. moreover, my party and the other epp members consider human rights to be one of the cornerstones of our external action and our global voice, and i am pleased that these recommendations address these concerns extensively. to consolidate progress in these areas, we must also promote human security, both in the economic and social dimension, but also in its 'hard' dimension. last but not least, the actual functioning of the organisation is important to us, all of us who want to see an assertive and effective multilateral mechanism whose action promotes these values. in its iteration of these and other themes of interest to european citizens, mr lambsdorff's report and recommendations go a step further and i therefore give it my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that there is a need for a balance between theoretical study and practical initiation in all areas, including arts education. ms badia i cutchet's report insists that teaching art history, for example, should include meeting artists and visiting culturally important places, in order to arouse curiosity and induce reflection in students. i hope that european governments and the european commission will take up the recommendations made in this report and we will see improvements as soon as possible.
in writing. − communication with citizens, informing them, must not remain a formal and ineffective proposal. civil society will have to address areas such as good governance and democratisation, human rights, development and combating social exclusion, environmental protection and sustainable development. in the light of the global financial crisis and the rising level of consumer indebtedness, active dialogue with european citizens means that the european institutions and civil society must work to improve the financial literacy of consumers, in particular with regard to their rights and obligations and best practices in savings and loans. member states should also increase the human and financial resources allocated to the network of european consumer centres in order to raise awareness and ensure the enforcement of consumer rights in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on best practice in regional policy because i believe that only adequate, transparent and timely information can make it possible to disseminate important information on the structural and cohesion funds. the objective of cohesion policy cannot be fully achieved as long as there are numerous obstacles - bureaucratic, administrative - preventing potential beneficiaries from using the structural resources of the european union. the obstacles that have been problematic so far include cumbersome documentation, constantly changing eligibility criteria and short deadlines for filing. the best results can be achieved through active information exchange, but also through the creation of a community-wide database of 'success stories' in project implementation. intra- and inter-regional cooperation, the collection and exchange of good practice in the field of regional policy will improve the absorption capacity of european funds. a european portal, translated into all the official languages of the european union, can make a significant contribution to the fair and transparent dissemination of information on european funds and the exchange of best practices in cohesion policy in the regions of the newly acceded member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the complementarity and coordination of cohesion policy and rural development measures because i believe that these policies represent important pillars of development at national level, given romania's outstanding agricultural potential. i believe it is important that rural development policy should aim to reduce the economic disparities between urban and rural areas by identifying the characteristic potential of each area and encouraging the development of specific activities. rural development policies need to target strategies that do not lead to the slowing down or cessation of agricultural activities by the rural population but, on the contrary, contribute to the diversification of these activities through the production of indigenous organic products and the production of traditional food and drink. the creation of the european agricultural fund for rural development, as a fund separate from the structural funds, was aimed at a more efficient use of european funding in rural areas. our advantage as a beneficiary state is that we have a wider range of funding for rural development. this will enable us to achieve our goal of modernising social structures and at the same time increasing territorial cohesion between rural and urban areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cosmetic products (reform) because i believe that any product placed on the market must meet quality standards, but also a minimum safety standard. such a regulation, which aims to improve the safety of cosmetic products, ensures the protection and health of consumers.
in writing. − the present commission proposal to amend directive 98/8/ec on the placing of biocidal products on the market has become necessary after an evaluation of its implementation showed that the 10-year period until 14 may 2010 for evaluating active substances used in biocidal products for inclusion in the community positive list will not be sufficient. consequently, the transitional period during which the market for biodegradable products will continue to be regulated by national rules would expire without the establishment of the community positive list. in practice, this would mean that important products such as disinfectants used in hospitals should be withdrawn from the market as from 15 may 2010. i voted in favour of this report because the extension of the current transition period allows the evaluation of active substances used in biodegradable products to be completed and provides an adequate period of time for member states to transpose the provisions and to issue authorisations and registrations for these products, and for the industry to prepare and submit complete dossiers. this extension also allows the principle of waste prevention (non-evaluated substances become waste) to be applied and the illegal marketing of biodegradable products to be avoided.
in writing. − europe is living today in a new reality of globalisation, increased mobility, migration, but also of the revitalization of regions and a strengthened role of crossborder regions. this is why multilingualism must provide new answers for our european citizens and society. i congratulate the rapporteur on this report and i hope that the amendments i have tabled will guarantee mutual respect for languages, including those of our national minorities and migrants, because our living linguistic heritage is a treasure, a resource to be valued. language is for each of us the most direct expression of our own culture, and by learning other languages we discover other cultures, values, principles and attitudes. we can discover in europe the values we share. this openness to dialogue is an essential part of our european citizenship, and one reason why languages are a fundamental element of it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'multilingualism: an asset for europe and a common commitment' (2008/2225 (ini)) because i believe that cultural and linguistic diversity within the european union is a wealth that effectively contributes to the achievement of 'unity in diversity'. i also believe that both school and cultural exchanges and foreign language teaching programmes within and outside the eu are beneficial and should be supported.
in writing. − currently, discussions on credit recovery measures are on the agenda. in the context of the global crisis, and especially in countries like romania, which are currently negotiating loans from international financial institutions, it is essential that banks reclaim their primary function of lending to the public. i think mr becsey's report is ground-breaking because it brings this issue back to the table, but from a new perspective, going beyond the banking system to identify solutions to the current financial gridlock. addressing the issue of microcredit, the report addresses those disadvantaged groups in society - such as minorities, the roma community, rural residents - who have untapped potential and want to start a small business, but cannot because they are not eligible to obtain a loan from a banking institution. the alternatives available to these people are few. i therefore consider mr becsey's proposal to set up a community fund to promote micro-credit for people and businesses without direct access to bank loans and to raise awareness of these financing instruments to be appropriate.
in writing. the substantive issues addressed in this report do not concern the community guarantee itself, but rather ways of improving the efficiency of eib financing. the role of the eib as an eu instrument to support economic development is unquestionable. the union has a number of financial instruments in the field of external relations and the eib's work must complement them. as regards the financing priorities, i am pleased that the current version of the report also includes my proposal to include a necessary clarification on energy projects in eastern europe and the south caucasus, namely that they should be 'in line with the community policy objective of diversifying energy sources in order to ensure stable and secure supplies for consumers'. i am pleased that european leaders have reached a compromise in the european council on eu financing of energy projects as part of the economic recovery plan. i'm glad that the nabucco project has survived this compromise and is now a priority energy project. i hope the eib will get involved so that this project can reach the necessary investment stage and, starting in 2013, we can transport gas from the caspian sea to europe.
the reduction of the financial programming period to five years, as recommended in the böge report, would be a great proof of the maturity of the european institutions, a sign of reducing bureaucracy. at the same time, we must be realistic and we must consider how feasible such a measure is, so as not to reach the limit where it will take us two years to adopt a five-year budget. the key question is how we proceed to simplify procedures so that european money is used within a reasonable period of time. the mythology has already been made up of the events of european money not arriving months, if not years, after it was really needed. let me give you an example of the money from the solidarity fund. as you know, romania will receive 12 million euros for five counties affected by the floods. the flooding happened last summer, we voted this month, but probably the money will come almost a year from when the flooding happened. the romanians who receive this money are not aware that they are being helped by the european union.
in romania, the end of 2008 saw car sales fall by half. the turnover of the romanian automotive industry decreased in 2008 by 7% compared to the estimated level before the start of the crisis. in the face of this economic decline affecting the whole of the european union, i believe that national governments and the european commission must make a joint effort to support the automotive industry. we have to keep in mind that a slowdown in automobile production leads to a crisis of the industry vertically, that is, of the manufacturers dependent on the automobile industry: producers of cables, motors, electrical equipment, etc. in concrete terms, it leads to the unemployment of thousands of workers. for example, to support the domestic automotive industry, the romanian government has resumed the so-called rabla programme. through this program, citizens are encouraged to marry off their ten-year-old cars for a sum that will be used as an advance on a new car. i therefore invite decision-makers to reflect on this example and to propose a viable strategy to support the european automotive industry at this time of global economic crisis.
in writing. the automotive industry is a sector employing some 2.3 million people and indirectly linked to another 10 million jobs. a large number of smes, subcontractors and suppliers are affected by the financial crisis. the social europe puts economic development and social development on the same level of importance. to preserve jobs and a decent living for employees in the automotive industry it is important that businesses have access to finance. i ask the commission to ensure that european funds, such as the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, are used to provide training and support for workers in the machine-building industry when they are affected by the downturn in the activity of companies in this sector. eu legislation on the promotion of green vehicles is leading to investment in the design and production of low-carbon cars. but it takes time, innovation and, above all, significant investment in human resources and new manufacturing capacity. at national and european level, the procedures for economic agents to access research and innovation funds must be simplified and research programmes must be oriented towards concrete themes of applied research in the automotive sector.
the reporter. − the single european sky ii package addresses the entire air transport system, with direct and positive implications for airlines, air navigation service providers, traffic controllers, airports, the aviation industry. it is the legislator's response to the need to harmonise and make european airspace and air traffic more efficient for the benefit of the environment, industry and, above all, passengers. the agreement reached with the council on the ses ii package is a step forward in the process of strengthening the european union. it is a natural step after the common market, after the adoption of the single currency, after the creation of the schengen area. we will have an air schengen from 2012. routes will be shorter, traffic control more efficient, air navigation services optimised and, in the future, integrated. as a result, flights will be shorter, fuel consumption will be lower, carbon dioxide emissions will be lower, which should normally lead to lower airfare. the compromise reached in the negotiations with the council reflects the need to accelerate the establishment of functional aerospace blocks. we have reached an agreement on the deadline for the fab to become operational, which is six months ahead of the european commission's original proposal. the fab operation is the main element in creating the single european sky, which is why i welcome the agreement concluded last november for the most important fab, the one for central europe. i hereby request the support of the european commission for the approval of the project related to the danube romania - bulgaria fab within the ten-t financial framework. with the support of the representatives of the french and czech presidencies, whom i thank, we have succeeded in balancing the decision-making and powers between the member states and the european commission, particularly with regard to the performance scheme, a key element of the ses ii package. the commission will decide on the harmonisation and the correct implementation of the targets contained in the national performance plans. the commission's initial proposal was supplemented by two elements introduced by parliament. the first of these is the coordinator of the functional aerospace block system. i considered it necessary, following the ten-t model, to appoint a coordinator to facilitate the conclusion of fab operating agreements, thus speeding up the process of unifying european skies. the second element concerns the clarification of the concept of 'joint projects' and the definition of their funding sources. the european parliament has also succeeded in imposing a strong emphasis on the human factor. the compromise reached with the council further clarifies the interdependencies between ses ii and the easa, given that the extension of the agency's responsibilities to airports, atm/ans and atc is in fact the 'security' component of the package. i consider it very important that a clear and complete definition has been found for the aerodromes covered by the provisions of this regulation. the new specifications issued by easa should be similar to the existing ones. in addition, the possibility was given to maintain the derogations granted so far. we also obtained the introduction of provisions on the need to strengthen and extend the consultation process with all stakeholders. the reports to be voted on tomorrow represent an important step forward in creating the single european sky and i am convinced that they are a success and a win-win for all concerned.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that this house has voted almost unanimously in favour of the reform of the single european sky. i only understood that he was against mr nattras, but i did not understand why, either i did not understand or he did not read the single european sky reform plan correctly. i do not understand what the soviet union has to do with it. everyone is free to say what he wants. i do not feel nostalgic for the soviet union. as regards the serious matters raised during the debate, i would like to remind you that this is our practical response to a crisis in the air transport sector. today, the data provided by iata are worrying. according to the director-general, the sector is expected to lose $4.7 billion in the current year, which is almost eur 3.5 billion, a decline from the initial estimates. profits in the sector are expected to fall by 12%. so in the face of a crisis like this, we are still able to give rules that can reduce costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. as regards the problem raised by mr zile on reciprocity and the overflight charges imposed on every aircraft that passes over siberia, the issue was the result of an agreement with russia which was not implemented. we have raised the matter in several meetings with the relevant transport ministers. the question was also raised at the last summit that the european commission had in moscow with putin and medvedev and with the minister for transport, whom i met bilaterally. i don't see any significant progress on the russian side, but we'll keep pushing. the principle of reciprocity, which could have been included in the text, was not accepted by the council. the majority of member states were opposed to this and so there was a debate at the last transport council and since there was no possibility of including it it was not included in the legislative text. as regards the questions raised by mr romagnoli concerning the airports in the city of rome, i can say that, as usual, the controls carried out by the european commission are always present. i can say that, as regards the application of the regulation protecting passengers with reduced mobility, fiumicino and ciampino airports can be taken as an example because they have applied the community regulation earlier than other airports, so much so that i submitted the new regulation at the end of july last year at fiumicino airport. that doesn't mean we have to settle for: i am thinking of the scandalous story of the 42 million bags that are mishandled around the world, the one million suitcases or missing luggage. in view of these facts, i have initiated an inquiry by the directorate-general for transport and energy, given a month's time to obtain answers from all the relevant organisations and if the answers confirm the data provided in the press, i will propose a reform of the existing regulation which i consider to be slightly weak as regards the protection of passengers, perhaps with the idea of entrusting some national bodies with the possibility of verifying the application of the community regulation. the question of passenger rights is certainly at the centre of my attention and i would therefore like to reassure, in reply to the question put by mr romagnoli, and reassure the whole of parliament, and confirm my constant commitment to seek to guarantee passenger rights more and more. it is no coincidence that after the regulation on air transport which was presented and approved, the regulations on sea transport and bus transport are being discussed. i also reply to mr evans that the criteria taken into account are the commercial value of the airport and the length of the runway, as he has said. the definition referred to is somewhat outdated by the criteria that have been listed. i believe i can thank you once again and insist on the issue of air safety, which will be even stronger with this reform, although i am convinced that flying over european skies today is safe, but there is never a limit to safety. we must do more and more, and that is why i will do my utmost to make every effort to present to parliament and the council proposals that can really show the citizens that the european institutions are on their side. i'd like to finish by thanking you all again. i thank the rapporteur, mr marinescu, but i also want to thank all the members, all the coordinators, all the members who have spoken during this debate, because without such a strong commitment from parliament, which has shown on this occasion that it does not want to waste time, to take concrete action on issues that directly concern the citizens and has been able to give with the commission, and i also thank the services of the european commission who have done so much and i am pleased that someone during the speeches also thanked the services for the cooperation shown. we have also been able to show the aviation industry that the institutions are capable, and i repeat and emphasize this, of dealing with a difficult crisis. i believe that the european citizens, the business community, are not waiting for us to provide them with any help, not just legislative measures, but to show that the institutions are able to be present, able to stand by the citizens, the business community and all those who are involved in tackling this crisis. they need to feel that the institutions are able to stand by them and support them in order to overcome together this difficult period for the european economy, which will be saved, and i am deeply convinced of this, by applying serious and precise rules that apply to everyone. the absence of rules and weak rules has led to the financial and economic crisis. we europeans, who recognize ourselves in a civilization which is the child of roman law and the napoleonic code, which is based on rules and respect for rules, are convinced that thanks to these rules we will be able to overcome the difficulties of the moment and above all we will be able to have more and more a system capable of being free, but also of being able to withstand financial and economic difficulties. i thank you once again for your great commitment and i am happy to be able to participate and share this important political moment with you.
the reporter. - just short answers. as for eurocontrol, it has started reform to take on new responsibilities, and as for the 'master of the air', i think the happiest entities after the approval of this report will be the airlines, including ryanair. as regards 'public use', it is precisely the reference excluding aerodrome clubs or leisure airports. that's why we wanted to deregulate these airports, to not complicate things any more. i also thank you for the positive appreciation you have given to my work, but i do not think i could have done it alone, in any way, and i therefore thank the rapporteurs from the other political groups, mr stockmann, mr leichtfried, mr degutis, mr zile and mrs lichtenberger, very much for their outstanding contributions to this dossier and for the support they have given me in the negotiations with the council. i would also like to stress that most of the suggestions in the amendments tabled by mr kohlíček and mr markov for the plenary are already reflected in the compromise reached with the council. commissioner, i congratulate you on this success, which i hope will be confirmed by the vote of parliament tomorrow and by the vote of the council at the end of this month. i thank the commission's team of experts who worked with us to make this agreement happen, and i thank the french and czech presidencies for their efforts, in particular mr thierry boutsen and mrs vera zazvorkova.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am pleased to inform the members of the european parliament that there is indeed progress in the harmonization of mobile phone chargers in europe. but first i would like to thank mr cappato and mr manders for their great commitment to tackling this problem, which is a daily reality for the citizens of europe. i agree with them completely that the much-complained inflation of chargers must end and that mobile phones must be powered by a single, standardised charger. hundreds of millions of useless chargers and adapters in europe are a senseless environmental burden and a costly nuisance to consumers. if you change your phone today, you usually need a completely different charger. even different models from the same manufacturer often cannot be charged with a single adapter. the subject is not new. however, it is important to note that charging a mobile phone is not a simple refuelling operation but a technically complex one. a few years ago, the technology was not yet mature enough to allow full harmonisation. charging a cell phone could cause it to overheat or even explode. these difficulties have now been overcome. so there are no longer any technical reasons against harmonization. i have therefore taken concrete steps to encourage industry to bring a single charger to the market. i am confident that the industry will move quickly now but we as european institutions must stay on top of the ball and we must not rule out possible legal regulation under any circumstances. as you may know, the network operators announced at their last congress in barcelona that they expect that by 2012, most of the new mobile phones they will be selling will be powered by a single, standardized charger. that's good, but it's not enough! the commission wants full harmonisation on the basis of a single standard and a binding commitment from industry to do so. the commission expects the industry to reach a binding agreement in the form of a memorandum by the end of april. this memorandum is to be signed by the major mobile phone manufacturers and ensure that every charger is capable of charging every mobile phone and every mobile phone can be charged by every charger. the commission will not hesitate to make a legislative proposal if industry does not reach a voluntary agreement. i expect that for other devices, like digital cameras or mp3 players, the problem will resolve itself automatically once the breakthrough for mobile phones is achieved. if that is not the case, then legal action is also needed. the commission is continuing to count on the valuable support of the european parliament so that we can finally put an end to this nuisance.
on behalf of the pse group. indeed, the issue we are discussing will affect a very large number of consumers across the european union. i have to appreciate that 2009 is the year of creativity and innovation, and that if this voluntary agreement between the mobile phone manufacturers is signed, a step towards standardisation can be made. i think that first of all we need to have a common technical standard, i think it is important that the european institutes dealing with standardization should also be involved, so that research can really be applied at market level. i also think it's important to have a consumer awareness campaign, because it's not enough just to have this energy-efficiency labeling on mobile phones, but i think it's important to have a consumer awareness campaign on the type of charger for mobile phones. 2012 is not far away. i think if manufacturers really invest in this new type of single charger, there's enough time to meet the 2012 deadline. however, i would like to mention that research has already led to the emergence of some applications on the market, namely chargers that allow two or three terminals to be charged in proximity. even if they are terminals of different types, of different brands, it is possible to charge them simultaneously. so we have to invest more in research, i think especially in research in the communications and information technology sectors. progress is being made; in the seventh framework programme for research we have a lot of money, but in a very narrow field, namely mobile phone chargers, not enough has been done, and that is why this protocol between manufacturers is a step forward, but it must be accompanied by common standards.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work in establishing the legal framework for the implementation of the biometric identification system. some aspects of this report have sparked heated debate in many eu member states, particularly those relating to biometric identification. such disputes have recently occurred in romania, which is the penultimate country in the european union to introduce biometric passports, but the first to implement a new biometric standard with fingerprints on both hands and facial expression. the concern for the adoption of biometric identification is based on the natural concern for ensuring the security of individuals, as well as the concern for how the data obtained are used and protected. one of the most important duties of the member states is to ensure the safety of their citizens without endangering fundamental human rights. so i think it's our duty to find a way to balance the two essential elements of our lives: freedom and security. the report we are debating today is a rather technical one, designed to harmonise measures at european level on biometric identification. this is necessary as a number of member states already practice this method in the absence of a european legislative framework in this field. the fact that, for example, children under 12 and persons who are physically unable to be fingerprinted will be exempted from fingerprinting for biometric visas is a sign of moderation and pragmatism that needs to be extended to all member states.
council decision no 512 of 8 june 2004 established the legal framework for the capture of biometric data for the identification of persons. the european regulation under discussion defines common standards for the collection of biometric data for the identification of persons and is based on the relevant provisions of the international civil aviation organisation. the united kingdom and ireland will not apply the provisions of this regulation as the schengen acquis does not apply to them. i think it is important for this regulation, in particular, to respect the protection of personal data. in practice, the storage and processing of this data must be done in compliance with specific european legislation and also the fact that member states are responsible for organising the reception and processing of visa applications gives member states a very high responsibility to respect the rights of individuals. i just want to mention that it is extremely important that the processing and collection of this data is done by authorized personnel and under no circumstances is it used for other purposes.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would just like to thank, once again, baroness ludford and all the honourable members for their contributions and their comments. i shall convey to my colleague mr barrot all that they have said today.
in writing. the introduction of biometric identification data in the vis is an important step in establishing a secure link between the visa holder and the passport, thus preventing the phenomenon of using a false identity. however, this regulation has since its first reading pointed to a number of disagreements between the council and parliament on issues such as: fingerprinting of children up to the age of 6 years with the risk of ignoring details on the costs and inconveniences that parents would face once the children's fingerprints were changed; the new challenges in organising the collection of biometric data and, last but not least, the lack of experience of the member states in managing the retention of personal data and technical errors. in this context, we need to ensure that the member states apply uniform rules for issuing schengen visas and the common consular instructions are adapted and redefined. furthermore, particular attention needs to be paid to the protection of biometric data of those who have provided it. we must be aware that although this biometric data collection system is intended to combat crime and terrorism by providing access and exchange of information between police authorities of the member states, it could be equally accessible to different interest groups if high security measures are not provided for and taken.
in writing. the regulation amending the common consular instructions on visas defines the legal framework necessary for the introduction of biometric identifiers into the visa information system (vis) and the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications. the regulation creates the possibility of cooperation with an external service provider for the purpose of collecting visa applications. i consider that the reasons for the free hand of cooperation with external providers are unfounded and create the danger of visa trafficking. although the regulation states that member states remain the 'controller' and external service providers the 'proxy holder', i believe that the protection of individuals with regard to the processing and movement of biometric data is called into question. the right to charge a service fee, in addition to the normal visa fee, will create differences between member states in the cost of a visa. i am absolutely convinced that this will create differences between member states and in the number of visa applications. i call on member states that practice 'outsourcing' as a form of organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications to take this risk into account and to review their legal framework in order to minimise the possibility of visa applications being collected by external providers.
member of the commission. − madam president, on 15 january 2008, the commission submitted its proposal on novel foods to the council and the european parliament, with the aim of simplifying the administrative burden for food-business operators when requesting pre-market approval for innovative food products. the current proposal maintains the principle of the need for pre-market authorisation for innovative products, to reassure consumers that new breeding or new production techniques are safe for humans and animals and respect the environment and consumers’ interests. the proposal streamlines and speeds up the authorisation process through a centralised food safety evaluation by efsa and sets precise deadlines at every stage of the procedure. it also includes an improved safety assessment, tailor-made to different types of foods, thereby allowing safe traditional food from third countries to enter the eu more easily. i would like to welcome the work of parliament, whose report addresses major issues concerning the development of a safe food sector. i would particularly like to confirm my support for the following principles: the need for a definition of engineered nanomaterials and the clarification that all such products require a case-by-case authorisation by the eu institutions; and the confirmation of the fact that food products from cloned animals are novel foods and therefore cannot be placed on the market without having been assessed by efsa and authorised through a regulatory procedure. i look forward to hearing your opinions on these sensitive issues and would like to thank the rapporteur, ms liotard, and the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable work on this important report.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, novel food regulations should provide for the diversification of food products on the european market, while ensuring that these new products are safe for the consumer. however, under the current regulation very few novel foods are approved on the eu market due to highly complex application and assessment procedures. if we had applied the current procedures to the authorisation of the potato or the kiwi fruit we might not have them on our table today. the revision of the current regulation should aim to set up a more efficient and practicable system for the authorisation of novel foods. i understand some of my colleagues’ concerns about allowing on the market new products that might present a danger or mislead the consumer. however, we should not fall into the trap of safety hysteria and kill innovation, and we should not discriminate against novel food, placing it a less favourable position than products already on the market that do not necessarily have a nutritional advantage for consumers; nevertheless, consumers have freedom of choice. my group is generally satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. however, there are certain issues that go far beyond the scope of this regulation, and consequently we will not be able to support it. for example, we cannot demand that a novel food has no negative impact on the environment. whether we like it or not, all human activities have an impact on the environment, and such a provision is disproportionate in this context. instead, my group believes we need to strike the right balance between encouraging innovation and applying the precautionary principle concerning food safety, consumer and environmental protection and animal welfare. our approach was to ease the long and bureaucratic procedures for putting novel foods on the market and protecting the industry’s investments by means of reinforced data protection. to that end, for the plenary vote we have retabled a set of amendments to facilitate the procedure for products that are similar to foods or ingredients already existing on the market and where the authorisation procedure has already started under the old regulation. applications pending under the old regulation should be completed according to the rules in force at the time of the submission of the dossier. reintroducing the application under the revised regulation would only mean further delays and costs for the industry. at the same time, we also tried to promote the interests of consumers by reinforcing implementing measures on, for example, marketing and monitoring, supporting the exclusion of cloned animals from the food chain, and specific labelling provisions. on the issue of cloning, i strongly support the exclusion of foods from cloned animals and their descendants from the scope of this regulation, and call on the commission to ban cloned animals in the food chain. in september 2008 the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution asking for a ban on cloned animals from the food supply. we must be consistent in the political message we send to the commission and to citizens. there are still fundamental questions to be addressed regarding the ethical implications of cloning animals for food supply, and even the implication of animal cloning on human health and animal welfare. therefore, the novel food regulation is not an appropriate framework for such a complex issue. if, in the future, food products derived from cloned animals are to be introduced on the european market, it should be done by means of a specific regulation submitted for public consultation and then democratically adopted. i believe parliament needs to take a strong stand and, by means of a majority vote, put pressure on the commission to find solutions that echo the will of the citizens. we will also support labelling of nano-ingredients. people have the right to know what they eat and make their choices accordingly. if some people are concerned about nanotechnology, then they should be able to make a different choice. however, we believe that labelling of foods produced from animals fed with genetically modified feedingstuffs is simply not realistic and feasible. i personally am strongly against gmos, but i cannot imagine how we could trace efficiently which animals were fed with gmos and which were not.
in writing. this proposal follows the structure of regulation (ec) no 2037/2000 but adds a new chapter on derogations from the prohibitions on production, placing on the market and use, which were originally dispersed in several provisions on the phasing-out of controlled substances and products. key challenges:- reducing emissions of ozone depleting substances (ods) /greenhouse gases from stocks is necessary because it is estimated that by 2015 the total of these stocks will represent 2 million tonnes of ozone depleting potential or 13,4 billion tonnes of co2eq. - approved uses of dos where no technically and economically viable alternatives yet exist (e.g. methyl bromide in quarantine and pre-shipment cases) - new ozone depleting substances new scientific evidence shows that certain chemicals not currently covered by the protocol have a much higher ozone depleting potential and their commercialisation is developing rapidly. the amendment makes the text clearer, simplifies the regulatory framework, while reducing administrative burdens, facilitating the implementation of legislation to ensure ozone layer regeneration by 2050 and avoiding negative effects on human health and ecosystems.
in writing. in my view, the health of both the present and future generations should be of concern to all of us. clean surroundings and atmosphere promote health. all scientific studies point to the fact that the ozone layer is extremely important, not only for the health of the population, but also for the maintenance of life on earth. unfortunately, there are a number of substances emitted into the atmosphere that destroy the ozone layer, contributing to the greenhouse effect. although there is evidence of a recovery in the ozone layer as a result of the measures taken, it is not expected that the pre-1980 level of ozone in the atmosphere will be reached until after the middle of the 21st century. i therefore fully support further measures to limit or even ban ozone-depleting substances. i believe that by doing so we are doing our duty not only to this generation but to future generations.
the council's conclusions are in line with the crisis situation in the member states. we must regard the agreement on energy projects and broadband internet as extremely positive. including the nabucco pipeline and interconnections between member states, such as those between romania, hungary and bulgaria, among these projects can help avoid a crisis similar to that of january 2009. the use of energy sources in the caspian sea area and the maximum exploitation of the black sea's strategic position are essential to ensuring the energy security of the european union. the policies developed in the framework of the eastern partnership must include as much as possible the exploitation of these areas for the benefit of the european union. i was surprised that the ecofin council's recommendations did not take into account the measures that the new romanian government announced in its governance programme and began to implement by adopting the 2009 budget. decentralisation to strengthen local autonomy, and the channelling of resources towards investment in priority areas such as infrastructure or energy, in order to preserve and create jobs, are two of the measures already taken by the romanian government. add to this the reduction of expenditure through budgetary allocations, as well as the establishment of the reform of the education system as a priority. the implementation of the proposals included in the council's economic recovery programme, in particular as regards the advance allocation of resources under european programmes and the approval of state aid, especially in the automotive sector, would constitute real support for minimising the effects of the crisis, not only in romania, but in many of the european union states.
mr president, the crisis we are dealing with is not a crisis in the system but a crisis of the system; an economic system crisis and a crisis of democracy as well. not only has financial credit contracted but also social credit. we can already see in the streets of our european towns the signs that warn us of the mistrust and unrest at social level, which could lead towards political and social upheaval. therefore, a social european union summit, leading towards a european pact on employment, is a must. a social summit should agree, among other things, that those companies laying off employees should not distribute dividends, that transnational companies must negotiate not only with national trade unions but also with european trade unions, that there cannot be business profitability without social solidarity. this global crisis is aggravated by a crisis of european integration. there are member states hosting mother-company economies and member states with economies of subsidiaries. the former are members of the euro area, the latter are not. programmes to facilitate the stabilisation and integration of the latter are crucial for the survival of the former. the european union cannot survive with new demarcation lines.
the economic crisis is having a serious impact on european businesses and citizens. member states' economies are in significant decline, smes are closing down and workers are losing their jobs. i have sent a letter to president barroso, together with other colleagues, on the situation of workers in the metal industry in romania and france, who are technically unemployed with 70% of their wages being paid, and i have asked for a reconsideration of the conditions of access to the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, in order to provide more support to workers who are seriously affected by the economic crisis and job losses. the european union needs economic development, european citizens need jobs and decent wages. the european economic recovery plan of november 2008 has remained a mere declaration. unfortunately, energy efficiency, which can create jobs, is not in the january regulation.
in writing. i express my support for the decisions taken at the recent european union summit in brussels. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. following the measures taken to protect the euro area countries from the global crisis, this decision is a concrete demonstration of the union's solidarity and its ability to help non-euro area countries overcome the economic crisis. after hungary and latvia, romania became the third eu state to call on the emergency fund, as it was affected by a strong current account imbalance and the inability to obtain new loans from foreign creditors. the eu institutions have an obligation to respond to the expectations of european citizens, who are hard hit by the crisis. only european solidarity, transatlantic cooperation and effective action can lead to overcoming the global crisis.
in writing. the european council's decision on funding for nabucco and its declaration as a priority energy project are the right and timely solutions to this problem. before the council meeting, i tabled a motion for a resolution calling attention to the danger of cutting funding for nabucco. we must be aware that the nabucco gas pipeline project is of strategic importance for the security of gas supply in europe, being the only project that ensures diversification of both suppliers and distribution routes.
the reporter. - parliament has reached an agreement with the council and this agreement is supported by five political groups, and i am referring to the two reports that follow. thanks to the amendments tabled by two of our colleagues - as a parenthesis, the content of these amendments is already included in the compromise agreed with the council - we have to vote on a number of articles today. rules which i consider to be incorrect have led to the voting order including the tran commission text first and then the compromise text in some articles. i ask you to vote today on the compromise text as it is supported by the five political groups, so that the two regulations will come into force by the end of this parliamentary term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of my colleague, mr marian-jean marinescu's report, because this legislative package is designed to improve the performance and viability of the european aviation system: more efficient regulation will lead to shorter flights, fewer delays and lower fuel consumption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report drawn up by marian-jean marinescu which aims to improve the performance and viability of the european aviation system. the single european sky has given rise to a growing and developing common aviation market in recent years. however, there has been very little progress in the overall efficiency of the configuration and use of the european route structure and therefore unnecessary costs are incurred by airspace users and travellers. i welcome the commission's proposals to set binding performance targets for air navigation service providers, a european network management function to ensure convergence of national networks and clear deadlines for member states to improve performance. i congratulate marian-jean marinescu on the preparation of this report. i welcome the rapporteur's proposals to develop an initiative on a system-wide approach to safety to maintain the safety and sustainability of air transport. i support the rapporteur's initiative which envisages full transparency of tariffs - the costs set should be in line with the convergence criteria based on the performance improvement system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (reform) (com (2008) 0505 c6-0297/2008 2008/0165 (cod)) because i believe that emissions of substances that deplete the ozone layer must be reduced and even stopped if life on earth is to develop normally. by doing so, we are doing our duty to both the present and future generations.
in writing. − i voted for this report in the belief that the ep's conformance opinion for the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the cariforum countries, on the one hand, and the european community and its member states, on the other, will ensure that: the implementation of commitments in areas that are not yet regulated within the caricom single economy and market or are not fully implemented, including financial services, other services, investment, competition, public procurement, electronic commerce, intellectual property, free movement of goods and the environment, will be postponed until the completion of the single economy and market in these areas; the creation of a monitoring mechanism within the cariforum states, with the resources to carry out independent analysis to determine the degree to which the epa is meeting its objectives; establishing and allocating fair shares of the trade facility's resources in advance; these funds represent additional resources, not just a simple restructuring of edf financing, that they respect cariforum priorities and that their payment is timely, predictable and in line with the timetables for the implementation of the strategic national and regional development plans; these funds are used effectively to offset the loss of customs revenue;
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the future of the automotive industry because it calls for coherent and coordinated eu member states' initiatives for the european automotive industry and calls for the creation of a genuine european framework for action.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the united states of america needs a strong united states of europe. the european union needs a strong american union. together, the united states and the european union could be a guarantee for the world’s security and stability and offer a pattern for the global order. this report is not only about enhancing transatlantic relations but also about balancing them. there are asymmetries between the two shores of the atlantic that negatively affect transatlantic cooperation. therefore, the strengthening of the political european union is essential for future cooperation with the united states. it will allow better burden-sharing in observing both parties’ international responsibilities. between these two objective strategic partners, there is a need for deeper and better-structured relations, as well as the institutionalisation of those relations. the report we are dealing with today recommends a strategic enhanced partnership and the process leading to it. along those lines, we should look towards establishing a true confederative transatlantic body between us and the united states of america. at the same time, the consolidation of the transatlantic strategic partnership should offer a new opportunity for advancing cooperation with the third major player in the northern hemisphere, namely russia. united states-european union relations should not be seen as a transatlantic alliance against russia, but as a starting point in establishing a formula for trilateral cooperation with a view to maintaining world security and stability. to conclude, our priority is not to express our expectations in a self-deceiving way, but to build on realistic assumptions of what the european union and the united states could deliver, while increasing our capacity to deliver. in this light, we support the recommendation of the report. allow me, on a personal note, to thank mr millán mon for the great and kindly cooperation he offered us in order to shape these recommendations.
i congratulate mr francisco josé millán mon on his excellent report on transatlantic relations. as members of the european parliament, we must insist that the european union and the united states of america develop a joint strategy on the six eastern european countries, namely moldova, ukraine, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and belarus, targeted by the european neighbourhood policy, in order to achieve concrete and sustainable results in the implementation of the new eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. i appreciate the inclusion of my amendment on this subject in the report and i thank my colleagues for supporting this idea. the rapporteur's proposal to abolish visas for all european citizens wishing to travel to the united states is also of particular interest. all european citizens must be treated equally. it is unacceptable that some of the citizens of the european union are treated as second-class citizens. i would stress the concrete and important progress made towards visa exemption, such as the introduction in romania in january 2009 of new biometric passports with chips storing citizens' personal data, with 50 security elements, 18 more than current passports, but i believe that biometric passports should not be an elimination condition for entry into the visa exemption programme. the inclusion of all european union states in the visa waiver programme should be a priority in the european commission's dialogue with the united states of america.
mr president, even if western unity helped us win our independence and end the cold war, by the time our countries joined both nato and the eu, transatlantic relations were not in their best shape. the current crisis and its common challenges – the deterioration of the security environment, the global issues like energy, climate change, nuclear proliferation and the new power centres, the regional issues like the middle east, afghanistan, pakistan, iran and africa – require maximum intensification of transatlantic cooperation. in context, the report makes a positive contribution by primarily suggesting ways to institutionalise those relations, to commonly approach russia and the six eastern european countries, to achieve the unified transatlantic market, to gradually integrate our financial markets and to extend the us visa waiver programme to all eu member states. we cannot fail. the cost for the west would be the loss of initiative in world affairs, possibly for a long time to come.
given the developments of recent years in the european union, in the us administration and globally, i believe that now is the time to rethink the transatlantic partnership and adapt it to new realities. i welcome the report by my colleague, mr millán mon, and congratulate him on it. this report summarises in a very useful document the main priorities of europe in its relationship with the united states. i am also glad that my proposed amendments have been included in the report. a few observations: first, security cooperation must continue. it is time for europe to contribute more to the theatre in afghanistan, where a war is being fought that is crucial to the future of the region. i would also like to mention that my country, romania, has provided assistance to the united states' efforts in both iraq and afghanistan. secondly, on the energy front, i believe that a joint effort is needed to coordinate research efforts and identify new sources of clean energy. as far as the relationship with russia is concerned, i think it is appropriate to have a coherent approach between the united states and europe on the one hand and russia on the other. finally, i would like to welcome the very constructive proposals for the establishment of transatlantic consultative bodies, including on foreign and security policy.
in writing. the election of president barack obama can mark the beginning of a new era in relations between the united states and the european union, provided both sides move from good intentions and friendly declarations to more concrete steps to strengthen ties and make cooperation more effective. the economic crisis and the current geostrategic context require greater concern for improving transatlantic cooperation, as we face serious common challenges. the us and the eu are linked by a fundamental partnership for both sides, covering all areas of activity, from trade to military alliance. in these circumstances, i believe it is imperative that the last remaining discrimination in us-eu relations be eliminated. the fact that visas for entry to the us are still compulsory for citizens of six eu member states should be a priority of the commission and the european parliament's dialogue with the us authorities, in order to achieve equal treatment of all eu citizens on the basis of full reciprocity. in this regard, i welcome the inclusion in this report of the request to the united states to lift the visa regime for the six countries that have not yet been included in the visa waiver programme.
in writing. – "america has no better partner than europe", declared president obama in berlin in july 2008. europe, on its turn, has no better partner than america. this is the main conclusion and motto that can be drawn from this excellent report. in the global world of the 21st century, europe and america face common challenges, but also share the same values and fight for the same ideals. therefore, all the recommendations of the report to step up eu-us relations are not only welcome, but also strongly needed. among them, i find people-to-people contacts to be the true key to lasting relations and cooperation. therefore, i insist time and again and give my full support to the call on the american administration to entirely lift the visa regime for eu nationals as soon as possible. it is unacceptable that nationals of five eu member-states still face obstacles and need visas to travel to america. europe is a united entity, and so should be the approach towards all its citizens, towards all their rights and freedoms. let people interact, researchers cooperate and businesses find joint solutions to the current economic crisis. freedom of movement between the two continents has thus become urgency and should constitute a priority topic already at the prague meeting on 5th april 2009.
in writing. – in the last 18 years the usa had a lot of vituperation to put up with – and, maybe in the case of the previous republican administration, under president bush, on many occasions for very good reason. i would like to remind you that without american support and involvement some problems on the european continent would be still hanging in the air. very often in the previously mentioned period it has turned out that the european union can become powerless and incapable to solve conflicts that happen at our back door, on our continent. without american involvement and the daytona agreement, maybe there would still be war in bosnia. and i am sure i do not have to underline enough that the status of kosovo would be still unclear and therefore highly frustrating not just for the people of kosovo, but for european powers as well. in spite of the many shortcomings of the american democracy, they have achieved something that at this point we can only dream of: they have a black president. i put high hopes into transatlantic relations, and i sincerely hope that things will improve for the benefit of both the eu and the usa.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. first of all, and not accidentally in the context of this debate, i would like to welcome the compromise reached at the last european council on the financing of the nabucco pipeline. i am pleased that the nabucco project has been declared an energy priority project and that our efforts, as members of the european parliament, in supporting this project have borne fruit. but, returning to today's debate, i think it is clear that two of our concerns with regard to turkmenistan are of equal importance: economic cooperation, particularly in the field of hydrocarbons, but also social progress and human rights in this country, as the commissioner has mentioned. i welcome this report and congratulate mr caspary. and i think that the agreement under discussion is a better framework for interaction with turkmenistan than the current one. i would point out, however, that it is not too early to discuss concrete ways of working with turkmenistan and its inclusion in the european union's energy projects. as a means of accelerating economic cooperation between the union and this state, the agreement discussed today is more than welcome. we understand from this report that there is a willingness of the ashgabat authorities to negotiate on the subject of human rights and civil liberties. it should be apparent from the union's experience to date that progress on these issues is most rapidly achieved when it is part of a broader discussion, including, inter alia, the prospect of long-term economic cooperation. turkmenistan's energy and foreign policies are closely linked. we can address them at the same time by strengthening economic cooperation and by taking concrete measures and maintaining a constant interest in the area of human rights. i welcome the benchmarks for turkmenistan's progress, such as those on union standards on intellectual property. i wonder if it would be useful to have some similar ones for the degree of economic integration, but also for a longer duration, realistic, or ones that look at progress in the sphere of civil liberties.
communism is a treacherous philosophy. in theory, it mentions welfare, equality, respect for human rights, but in practice it has meant lying, discrimination, hatred and even murder. communism must be condemned with all the force at our disposal. in romania, this was done in 2006 by the country's president, following a report by a presidential commission set up for this purpose. communism abolishes all freedom, makes people dependent on the system. anyone who has not lived under communism cannot understand how much the totalitarian system has affected people's lives and thinking. if i could turn back time, i would take those who have lived their whole lives in capitalism, but long for communism, to live in romania in the '80s. in romania, communism was imposed with the help of russian troops and at the cost of hundreds of thousands of lives lost in camps and prisons. with one fault, that of not having submitted to the totalitarian system, politicians, intellectuals, peasants, representatives of various religious sects, in general, citizens who were models for the members of the community, disappeared. if the great problems of a failed economic system can be solved by appropriate measures, the human soul needs time to forget, to forgive and to adjust to a new way of life, even if incomparably better. democracy brought freedom of thought, speech, movement. it must bring the security of tomorrow. there is no difference between poverty caused by lack of products and poverty caused by lack of means to procure products. the day we succeed in eliminating poverty, the ghost of communism will disappear forever. dear colleagues, romania and the other eastern states came under this system as a result of the decisions of world leaders, only one of whom was a communist. the rest were democratic systems. keep this historical truth in mind when you evaluate, assess, or decide on the present or future situation of former communist states, whether members of the european union or not!
madam president, europe has a turbulent history with regard to totalitarianism and the restriction of basic freedoms. in some parts of europe the 20th century was hallmarked by such totalitarian regimes. it is our moral obligation today to make sure that every citizen of the european union enjoys the same rights. it is highly important that the eu should also support the rights of minorities, especially since many countries all around the world do not respect very basic rights in this sense. at the same time i would like to point out that, while the eu speaks out against discrimination and violation of human rights in cases like tibet, it is clear to all of us that even within the european union there are ethnic and linguistic minorities which are very often targets of cultural and linguistic assimilation. this practice of some nation states in the eu is an aspect that should be seriously reviewed and reconsidered. the hungarians in romania, the people i represent, are such a case.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. this report is the product of collaboration between the members of this forum. i would therefore like to thank my colleagues, and in particular mr lambrinidis, but also mrs gacek, mr alvaro, mrs segelström and mr mavrommatis, with whom i had the pleasure of working, more as a shadow rapporteur. i believe that the report covers the main themes of interest on strengthening security and fundamental human rights on the internet, referring to the protection of rights stipulated by the specific regulations in force in their digital dimension, as well as to the recognition and development of new principles of internet governance. the text strikes a good balance between the protection of freedom of expression and privacy and the need to continue the fight against information crime cybercrime and also highlights the important issue of excessive surveillance of internet activity, which can degenerate into a new form of censorship. it addresses issues relating to the educational dimension of the internet, e-learning, the definition of digital identity, and the recognition of the user's right to the content he or she posts on the internet and the protection of personal data, in the sense of giving the user the possibility to permanently delete his or her own content. these are sensitive issues in the current context, where social networks are increasingly populated by young people, and not only. that is why i have urged my colleagues to vote for this report with all their convictions.
today, the internet has reached a new stage as an indispensable tool for business, but also as a global forum for the expression of diverse opinions. however, this development has generated ambivalent positions. on the one hand, the internet continues to offer fabulous opportunities as a catalyst for educational, cultural, economic and social development, and on the other, it is perceived as a platform that can be used to promote violent behaviour that undermines people's freedom and security. furthermore, the internet's global nature has also made it a threat to privacy, with citizens' online activities often subject to surveillance by governments, law enforcement authorities, companies, and even criminals and terrorists, to the point of identity theft. in this context, the legal line that separates the security and fundamental freedoms of citizens on the internet from unlimited monitoring by various authorities must be identified, so that legislation becomes effective, and not excessive, in the fight against crime. it is therefore necessary to define global standards on data protection, security and freedom of expression through sustained cooperation between internet operators and internet users. it is also important and in this respect i fully support the rapporteur to examine and set limits on the consent that users, whether governments or private companies, may be required to give up part of their privacy in order to benefit from certain services or privileges on the internet. last but not least, mr president, i believe that the member states must make efforts to align national legislation on the protection of fundamental rights on the internet, which can also help to shape a common strategy to combat cybercrime or cyberterrorism. my congratulations to mr lambrinidis and the entire team who contributed to this report.
mr president, i am one of those people who would like to ensure the continuity of internet freedom. the creators of the internet had great faith in the basic goodness of humankind, and i tend to share that faith. unfortunately, very often with the internet, just as in any human society, we have to face the sad fact that regulations are needed to make sure that those who cannot protect themselves are protected too. the safety of an individual is a fundamental right, just as much as the right to free speech and to self-expression. abominations such as child pornography and paedophilia, as well as internet fraud, must be stopped. we cannot tolerate internet predators of any kind, and while we are discussing this topic of great interest i would like to draw your attention to a much less discussed fact: the internet is also full of sites that incite hatred, violence and intolerance towards all kinds of minorities, among them ethnic minorities. it is an aspect of the internet that needs our attention. we have to make sure that minorities also feel protected. it is unacceptable that many extremist groups use the internet to instigate hatred and xenophobia.
in writing. it is well known that the internet is becoming increasingly difficult to control, but protecting the fundamental right to privacy on the internet and ensuring a safer internet must be a priority for member state governments. while the benefits of using the internet are many, we must not overlook the dangers of abuse to which some internet users expose themselves. therefore, in order to limit abuses, it is our duty, both at european level and at member state level, to set standards for data protection, security and freedom of expression. on the other hand, urgent action is needed to combat cybercrime, and in this regard i stress the importance of creating a comprehensive strategy. i believe that in the fight against cybercrime there must be active cooperation between police authorities, internet service providers, users and other stakeholders. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the right to education and the right to access the internet, as well as the security and protection of the rights of those who benefit from internet services, must be guaranteed.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome, on behalf of the commission, mr lehne’s report, adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and adopted as a sign of strong consensus across the political groups. we are also pleased that this report strongly supports the white paper. the commission notes that the report agrees with the findings of this paper, that victims of european community competition law infringements currently face considerable difficulties in claiming compensation for the harm suffered by them. we agree that measures must be taken to ensure full compensation of those victims. we also share the view that collective redress is crucial for consumers and small businesses in order to give them a realistic and efficient possibility to obtain compensation in cases of scattered damage. the commission also fully agrees with the econ committee report, that excessive or abusive litigation must be avoided. to this end, therefore, collective redress mechanisms must include appropriate safeguards. finally, we fully agree that its approach to collective redress must be consistent and that compatibility must, therefore, be ensured between initiatives targeted at various areas, such as competition law or consumer protection laws. at the same time, the commission welcomes the acknowledgement that a consistent approach to collective redress does not necessarily mean that all areas would have to be dealt with in one single horizontal instrument. the call for consistency must not unduly delay the development of measures identified as necessary for the full enforcement of the european community competition law.
rap avis imco. (the president of the council is here) − the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has formulated its position on the basis of the fact that the negative effects of an infringement of antitrust law are very often felt economically at the end of the commercial chain, affecting final consumers and small businesses. in this case, the compensation for the damage suffered is important but at the same time difficult to obtain, since there are many victims and small amounts. i therefore called for the adoption of a package of legislative and non-legislative measures to be the instrument through which all european citizens affected can defend their right to fair and full compensation. we support all measures designed to remove the difficulties in achieving this objective: facilitating access to documents, reducing the costs of judicial proceedings and reversing the burden of proof. we welcome the commission's proposal to combine representative actions brought by qualified entities with collective actions with explicit consent. however, we believe that collective opt-out actions should remain under discussion given the advantage they represent: a final solution and a reduction of uncertainty.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. although the ec treaty clearly prohibits cartels and other breaches of competition law, it is still difficult for affected consumers in the european community to recover their compensation rights. in romania, for example, a cartel formed in the cement industry was recently fined several million euros. however, the legislation in force does not oblige the competition authorities to be involved in compensating victims. i would like to stress the need for these authorities to take into account the compensation paid or to be paid when calculating the fines imposed on undertakings guilty of abuses, so that there is no gap between the damage caused and the punitive measures, and especially to ensure compensation for those affected by such practices. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to improve the way in which the rights of consumers affected by infringements of the law are guaranteed throughout europe. parliament has been very clear that there should be no opt-out system in europe. therefore, victims must be identified as soon as possible at the time of a complaint. the 'opt-in' system ensures that victims of the infringement of competition law will indeed be compensated. parliament wants no one else, whether lawyers, trade associations or the consumer protection, to benefit from private actions. i also think that parliament is introducing an important new element which the commission's proposal has omitted. alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are in many cases much more effective for victims who are entitled to compensation than judicial procedures and i am referring to the fact that when seeking compensation, out-of-court settlements must be initiated in the first place. they are much less costly than private actions and consumers will be compensated for damages suffered much more quickly.
as a romanian mep, together with my colleagues, we support the proposals that our rapporteur has made and we will vote in favour of them. families in small towns and rural areas are the most affected by poverty. in the context of the crisis, the extension of the food programme and its financing from the community budget are fully justified. we all know that the measures of 2008 and the budget allocated were insufficient. the agricultural and social components may justify keeping the programme under the common agricultural policy. in the new member states, such as romania, the administration of the programme clearly needs to be improved. product storage and administrative costs must be managed efficiently so that their share of the market price does not exceed 20-25%. finally, i would like to thank mr siekierski and congratulate him on the proposals he has made.
in writing. i would like to welcome the european commission's efforts to improve the way consumers can assert their rights across europe. the options presented in the green paper need to be discussed in detail. one thing is already certain: option 4, which would introduce an 'opt-out' class of actions and give consumer organisations a share of the compensation payments, is not sustainable. if we want to increase consumer confidence in the internal market, we need to consider a combination of options 2 and 3, i.e. we need to create a european-wide network of national public enforcement authorities with more powers to intervene effectively in international (cross-border) mass claims. moreover, we need to review existing alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and possibly introduce a new mechanism that allows for more effective enforcement of consumer rights outside the courts. i would like to conclude by stressing that we must ensure that we have a horizontal approach to the collective redress mechanism, that we avoid fragmentation of national legislation, that we have a single instrument common to the member states.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european food aid programme to include the most deprived. as a former mayor of bucharest's sector 5, i was always concerned with helping the poor, especially the roma. across the european union, 80 million people (16% of the population) live below the poverty line, and their numbers will increase because of the economic crisis. in some new eu countries, poverty affects about 20% of the population. funding from the eu budget for food aid programmes is necessary in full, as some member states will not be able to participate in the programme if co-financing rates are introduced. we need to reduce the burden on member states with low per capita incomes or whose budgets are in financial difficulty, including romania. the products in intervention stocks or those purchased on the market must be of community origin, with priority given to fresh food products from local production, i.e. romanian products bought with european money to be distributed to the poor in romania.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the food programme, the extension of which is being considered, is a key instrument for helping the disadvantaged, who, in the context of the economic crisis, are suffering a lot even in terms of meeting basic needs. it is also a rational measure to use the eu's food resources efficiently, because it allocates unused products to those who need them, while also stimulating demand on the eu food market. i support such food aid assistance programmes being fully funded by the eu budget, as the introduction of co-financing rates would significantly hamper the process, prevent timely implementation of measures and achieve quick results. however, i believe that the national authorities should be given more responsibility for administering aid on the ground, because they are better acquainted with the situation at local level and the specific needs of the population.
in writing. − whereas india was the european union's 17th most important trading partner in 2000 and its 9th in 2007, and eu trade in goods with india grew by around 80% between 2000 and 2006. as a social democrat, i welcome the fact that india has made considerable progress in universal primary education, poverty reduction and increased access to safe drinking water. i note, however, that india is still not on track to achieve most of the millennium development goals (mdgs), such as child mortality, maternal health, child malnutrition, and the fight against malaria, tuberculosis, and hiv/aids. we voted in favour of this report in the belief that the eu-india free trade agreement represents a potential future for increased investment, trade and business opportunities arising from the fta, and is, on the whole, a win-win agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs batzeli (greece) because i believe that the eu must come to the aid of producers and consumers. because of the abuse of market dominance by large retail chains, prices paid by european consumers are on average five times higher than producer prices. farmers generally receive about 8% of the final retail price. we call for the introduction of eu policies that facilitate direct contacts between producers and consumers. the eu must support the use of new technologies and the internet that can provide consumers with more detailed information about products, but at the same time facilitate market access for producers. measures are also needed to give more importance to the concept of 'local products' and to support more effectively traditional food markets or other traditional forms of trade. traditional romanian products must be supported on the european market.
in writing. − regulating the issue of unfair practices used by large retail chains in relation to producers at eu level is very important for romania. here again, the problem of abuse by supermarket chains is of concern to both producers and consumers. in addition to the cumulative 'hidden taxes' that are mandatory for any product and are borne by producers, supermarkets prohibit producers from selling products cheaper in other stores, and all these rules lead to the price of products rising by up to 30%. it is the consumer who ultimately pays the overpriced price of the product. the measures proposed by mrs batzeli in her report are designed to reduce pressure on supermarkets and promote a direct relationship between consumers and producers, which is why i voted for its adoption. the study proposed here on the distribution of profit margins in the production-distribution chain will allow us to draw a number of conclusions on the appropriate measures for price transparency along the producer-processor-retailer route and for the sanctioning of abusive practices. price negotiations between suppliers and traders should allow for different prices on a case-by-case basis and thus contribute to ensuring a healthy competitive environment.
in writing. − the lambrinidis report is the first to address the internet from the user's perspective as a central theme. i voted in favour of it, considering it to be a balanced and timely report, dealing with the main topics of interest in the field. as rapporteur for the epp-ed group on this report, i believe that an important contribution is the recognition of the user's right to content, in particular the right to permanently delete this content, and the demand that future regulation should define digital identity and propose concrete measures to protect it. the report highlights the importance of cooperation between entities involved in the development of the internet, with a view to developing self- or co-regulatory instruments (e.g. codes of good practice) that complement existing legal rules. given the speed of internet development, these regulatory modalities are often more effective than traditional legislation, being accepted and applied by the majority of the entities concerned, without involving coercive force from the state. the internet is the largest publicly accessible space in the world, and its speed of development may surprise us if we do not decide to treat this issue in a balanced and realistic way, so that future regulation of the digital space is mainly focused around the user.
the european union project, conceived as a mechanism of economic integration, owes much to the link between european culture. at the same time, the promotion of diversity is one of the objectives of the european cultural agenda launched in this legislature, alongside the promotion of culture as a means of economic growth and its integration in relations with third countries. culture must be viewed in a slightly different light, if we consider that this sector produces more wealth than the european chemical industry, for example, employing millions of people. the field can contribute to the development of disadvantaged regions through grants for cultural cooperation projects in all artistic and cultural fields. romania, for example, has shown that it can carry out large-scale projects in partnership with european regions through the 'sibiul, european capital of culture 2007' programme, which has had a major economic impact on the area. we must also encourage cross-border mobility programmes for cultural workers and the transnational circulation of cultural and artistic achievements. and i say this as both a member of cult and regi, and a former president of a european border region.
madam president, obviously there are two schools of thought in this house when it comes to russia, reflecting the ambivalent attitude of the member states. in essence, it is not about russia – because many agree that this power is inevitably a strategic partner of ours – but about how to respond to her behaviour, which does not always conform to our standards. thus, while the first school suggests keeping russia accountable for every departure from those standards – and obviously mr onyszkiewicz’s report is in this category – the second school is more accommodating, motivated primarily by pragmatism. the question is, therefore, which of these two attitudes ensures better management of our common issues (economics, trade, energy, security, research and education), satisfying our interests while avoiding abdicating our own standards. which one will have more impact on russia’s behaviour? although i personally am sceptical about anybody’s capacity to really influence russia’s behaviour one way or another, i still plead for an eu position combining pragmatism with integrity. in the end, although this report is nominally about russia, in reality it concerns us too.
the potential for solid cooperation with the russian federation is directly proportional to the challenges and difficulties we face. russia has for some time chosen a discourse and a course of action which put in the background the prospects of pragmatic cooperation and which give hope to a brutal approach to international relations with which we cannot agree in any form. after the conflict in georgia, we are at a point where we see differences of opinion between us on a number of crucial issues. the russian federation considers the presence of its troops in the countries of the region to be acceptable and that they even have the right to intervene when moscow deems it necessary. russia's involvement in the frozen conflicts is being felt right on the union's border with effects for all of us europeans. i would like to remind you of what i proposed in my amendments: the presence of russian troops in the separatist region of transnistria has already been affecting the republic of moldova's path to development and its freedom to choose its future for almost two decades. the russian federation must withdraw its troops from transnistria to secure the foundation of this partnership.
in writing. i appreciate the report by janusz onyszkiewicz on eu-russia relations. i believe that the eu's relations with moscow must be based on a pragmatic basis, avoiding any prejudice. first, there is a need for genuine cooperation in the field of energy supply, in the mutual interest. but it is essential that we have the solidarity of the eu member states, which will present themselves as a bloc in negotiating with moscow for gas imports. only in this way can we ensure that european citizens have a secure supply of gas at affordable prices. we have a responsibility to prevent the triggering of new gas crises. secondly, we must cooperate with moscow to address together the problems of our common neighbourhood, relations with the republic of moldova, ukraine, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan. this approach must be based on the rules of international law, respecting the integrity and sovereignty of states, and avoiding any hegemonic tendencies. it is essential that we make progress in resolving frozen conflicts, such as those in transnistria, ossetia, abkhazia.
in writing. it can be argued that the recent gas crisis and the conflict in georgia have created new tensions in relations with the russian federation. it is necessary for russia to stop using such situations in a manner that is inconsistent with international procedures and to give up creating new spheres of influence. at the same time, the union must make every effort to reduce its energy dependence on russia as much as possible. it is equally true that russia is a neighbour of the union and an indispensable player on the international stage. there is a major economic potential in the union's relationship with russia, which the european union cannot afford not to exploit, especially in the current global context. therefore, it is necessary to continue to invest in dialogue and cooperation with the russian federation by developing a coherent strategy based on common and mutually beneficial commitments. the only way this cooperation can succeed is for the union to speak with one voice and to engage in a conditional but constructive dialogue based on common values, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the international rules in force.
the commission's initiative to extend the application of the principle of equal treatment to other areas of social life through a comprehensive directive prohibiting discrimination outside the workplace on grounds of disability, age, religion or belief and sexual orientation is in principle necessary to complete the anti-discrimination legislative package. the introduction of the concept of multiple discrimination and the special attention paid to the rights of persons with disabilities is a step forward. this proposal for a directive remains, however, a sensitive and controversial subject. it is necessary that this legislative text maintains a balance between the competences of the european union and those of the member states by clearly defining the scope. aspects of family law, including civil status, reproductive rights and adoption, should not fall within the scope of the proposed directive, which should be clear from the legislative text. the use of the institution of marriage in any other way than in the christian sense is unacceptable. for other partnerships another legally accepted name may be found. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in matters relating to the content and organisation of national education systems, including religious education. the european people's party has always supported the promotion of diversity as an important objective of the european union and the fight against discrimination. unfortunately, the text contains doctrinally unacceptable provisions. paradoxically, the left wants to discriminate in this way. me, being discriminated against just because i honestly believe in god.
according to the universal declaration of human rights and the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, all citizens have equal rights and freedoms, enjoy equal protection of the law without distinction of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or any other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth, social status or any other circumstance. but i would like to stress that decisive and effective action against all forms of discrimination is needed, since discrimination in europe is still strong and affects the most diverse strata of society. in many cases, it is not enough to prohibit discrimination of any kind, but it is also essential to take various positive measures, for example in the case of people with disabilities. many countries - to name just a few: italy, france, finland and spain - have also taken positive measures to grant autonomy to traditional national minorities. the european union and its member states have an obligation to ensure that citizens are treated equally in their rights and in their treatment, even in an institutional form. there is a need for independent institutions at european level to monitor and guarantee that states do not only commit themselves theoretically to the principle of equal treatment, but also take concrete measures to ensure the effective application of this directive.
in writing. it was a coincidence that we were discussing this directive today and voting on it tomorrow, on international autism awareness day. it's a good sign. the reality is that there are wide disparities between the national laws of the member states on the rights and interests of people whose lives are marked by autism. the gap is even wider when we compare the daily lives of those affected. to reach european standards the road is long but it must be travelled. autism needs to be recognized as a distinct disability among mental disabilities and specific strategies need to be developed. it may seem costly to some, but as with other disabilities, equal treatment is the sine qua non condition for respecting ourselves and the values of european society.
in writing. the right not to be discriminated against is a fundamental right, the applicability of which to eu citizens has never been questioned. equal treatment, regardless of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, is one of the basic principles of the european construction. this directive, long awaited and with an equally complicated history in parliament's consultations, built on article 13 ec, regulates protection against discrimination, emphasising equal treatment, regardless of the reasons. the need for this directive cannot be called into question given the high number of people, almost 15%, who claim to be discriminated against at union level. i would also like to stress the importance of linking this new directive with the existing ones in the field of combating discrimination, a task which will be fulfilled through cooperation between the commission and the member states. i am pleased to highlight, in this context, the progress romania has made in recent years in this area, as demonstrated by the european union agency for fundamental rights. last but not least, i believe that the impact of this directive will be substantial given the social protection measures, the social benefits and the facilitation of access to the goods and services it will guarantee.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i should like to thank mrs garcía pérez, mrs jöns and mr angelakas. you have prepared three high-quality reports on the proposals for the revision of the structural and cohesion fund regulations submitted by the commission to the council and the european parliament as part of the economic recovery plan adopted last november. these three reports - on the general regulation, the regulation on the european social fund and the regulation on the european regional development fund - reflect parliament's concern that the european union should have quick and effective means of combating the effects of the crisis in terms of growth and employment. cohesion policy is a powerful lever to boost the real economy. the €347 billion of appropriations for 2007-13 is the means of providing robust support for fiscal stability and public investment in the member states and regions of the union. that is why cohesion policy is so important in the recovery plan. in this recovery plan, the commission has recommended actions in the four priority areas of the lisbon strategy: people, enterprise, infrastructure and energy, and research and innovation. the commission also indicated that a judicious combination of strategy and human resources can have a catalytic effect on key investments that will enable the union to achieve a lasting return to prosperity. for cohesion policy, the major objective of this strategy is to accelerate both programme implementation and investment in projects for the benefit of citizens and economic activity. the rapporteurs have just given details of the regulatory amendments which have been submitted to you. i will stress a few of them. first, to improve the management of the funds, facilities are being made available to member states, including additional advances of two or two and a half points, totalling six billion twenty-five million in 2009. it is essential that they are channelled to the beneficiaries quickly in order to increase the financial availability for priority projects. in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, the amendment to the erdf regulation will allow up to 4% of the total erdf allocation to be invested in housing, i.e. a total available allocation of eur 8 billion for all member states. this will strengthen the contribution of cohesion policy to the fight against climate change. as regards major projects, the proposed amendment in the general regulation aims to relax the rules on financial management by allowing the managing authority to include in the declarations of expenditure to the commission expenditure relating to major projects which have not yet been the subject of a commission decision. the financial and economic crisis has also had a particular impact on smes. it was therefore essential, as part of the recovery plan, to facilitate their use of financial engineering instruments to carry out their projects, in particular through jeremie. the other proposals for revision of the general regulation are also in this direction: direct contracts with the european investment bank group, increased use of technical assistance for major projects and eligibility of in-kind contributions in the case of financial engineering. in its proposals, the commission also wished to simplify the criteria for awarding erdf and european social fund aid. the convergent amendments by parliament and the council will mean that the erdf and esf regulations will be amended in the same way so that new types of eligible costs, calculated on a flat-rate basis, will be added to community co-financing. these changes will simplify the procedure for justifying expenditure. they will reduce the workload and the number of supporting documents to be provided, without altering the principles of sound financial management. this rationalization will facilitate the absorption of erdf and esf appropriations without affecting the priorities of these two funds, which remain relevant in these times of crisis. it is therefore more than a one-off response to the crisis; it is a response to the repeated calls for simplification of the structural funds made by the european parliament and the court of auditors. mr president, i thank the three rapporteurs for their support for this package of measures, which will help to speed up the implementation of projects on the ground. these legislative measures will be accompanied by recommendations to the member states, which were the subject of a commission communication adopted on 16 december. the commission stressed that operational programmes could be reoriented to focus support on priorities resulting from the crisis. the european parliament also expressed its concern to respond to the urgency of the situation by ensuring that these three regulations are adopted as quickly as possible and that the measures are applied as soon as possible in the member states. i thank parliament for sharing this ambition, which will in particular enable the advances to be paid to the member states for the month of may. the commission has taken account of parliament's call. it ensured that the measures adopted under the recovery plan were closely monitored and that a report on the implementation of the measures and their concrete results was submitted to the european parliament. in the second half of 2010, the commission will therefore draw up a report on the implementation of the measures adopted under the recovery plan in the area of cohesion policy in the union. this report, which will be drawn up - i repeat - in the second half of 2010, will be based on the annual implementation reports drawn up by the member states in june 2010. they will then be invited to present in these reports an assessment of the implementation of the measures adopted under the recovery plan, highlighting the results achieved in the context of cohesion policy. the commission has adopted a statement to this effect, mr president, and i am forwarding it to the european parliament. i thank all members, and in particular our three rapporteurs, for their attention. i am at your disposal, with a view to a fruitful debate, to hear your comments on the proposals for regulatory revision which have been submitted to you. the commission welcomes the efforts made in a very short timeframe to adopt the proposed amendments to the structural and cohesion funds regulations in the context of the european economic recovery plan. this result is the result of fruitful and effective cooperation between the council, the european parliament and the commission, with the support of the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, in the service of the national and regional economies of the european union. the legislative package makes it possible to facilitate the implementation of operational programmes and to accelerate investment for the benefit of the european economy, in particular through a number of simplification measures. during the second half of 2010, the commission will prepare a report on the implementation of the measures adopted under the recovery plan in the field of cohesion policy in the european union. this report will be based in particular on the annual implementation reports drawn up by the member states in june 2010. member states are therefore invited to present in these reports an assessment of the implementation of the measures adopted under the recovery plan, highlighting the results achieved in the context of cohesion policy.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - the financial crisis has imposed much more prudent lending policies, which are necessary for banks but destructive for the economy. the negative effects are felt in the real economy, especially in smes and public authorities. these projects aim to increase social and regional cohesion, create jobs, exploit local resources, and facilitate entry and re-entry into the labour market. the normally large common budget is now an indispensable source of funding to stop the negative effects from multiplying. the commission is therefore proposing to simplify the rules and speed up access to the structural funds and the european social fund. for countries less experienced in accessing funds, the advantage is twofold. we consider it necessary and welcome that the european financial institutions intervene in the financing arrangements, modify the structure of eligible expenditure, and eliminate the ceilings on advance payments or advance approval. however, access to funds is not an end in itself. the financial impact is over eur 6.3 billion. the sum is considerable. as representatives of the public, we want the funds to achieve the objectives for which they were created. we're writing a blank check today and demanding the necessary transparency in the spending of money. we're also hoping to set a positive precedent. in the past, many initiatives, especially social ones, have been rejected on the grounds that they lack a legal basis. the amendment of this regulation proves, if necessary, that where there is political will, there is also a legal basis. let's not forget that.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs garcia perez for her report. cohesion policy reforms are very important and aim to mitigate the negative effects of the financial crisis. the flexibility allowed in the distribution of community funds will provide national economies with immediate liquidity to enable investment in the real economy. their effect will be immediate, and the first results will certainly be seen in the months to come. the european commission is supporting member states' economies through four major priorities, the most important of which are: increasing pre-financing from the erdf and the european social fund and support from the european investment bank and the european investment fund. in 2009, prefinancing, which is mainly for the new member states, can thus help to overcome the crisis and achieve social and territorial cohesion. the report on the eligibility of energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing should also be given high priority. the thermal rehabilitation of dwellings should be high on the european union's agenda in view of the added value of this measure. with the rising costs of thermal energy, member states need to include energy efficiency projects in their crisis programmes. they bring important benefits to both the economy and the population, such as: injecting liquidity into the economy as well as creating jobs, reducing thermal energy costs, protecting the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ensuring social cohesion and supporting low-income families. in romania, it is estimated that 1.4 million apartments are in urgent need of investment for rehabilitation.
i would like to welcome the idea of these coordinated measures at the beginning of my speech and to thank the rapporteurs in particular for the work they have done. we all know what the effects of the crisis are in each of our countries, from reduced growth and job prospects to rising budget deficits and recession. european cohesion policy can be an equally credible and effective instrument in this context. europe, as we know, is deeply affected by the crisis and it is encouraging that the union was able to react so quickly to find solutions. the decision to amend the regulations of existing funds, which have already proven their effectiveness, is the most appropriate. the creation of a specific crisis response fund would have been a far too long procedure. simplifying the eligibility criteria for expenditure, increasing pre-financing from the erdf and the european social fund and speeding up major project spending are measures that they hope will help member states emerge from the economic and financial crisis. in parallel with the economic crisis, europe is also experiencing an energy crisis. the measure that allows the regional development fund to be used for investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing will, in my view, have a big impact. romania, like other countries in central and eastern europe, is familiar with many problems related to multi-storey housing. the old buildings are extremely poorly insulated and the inhabitants are largely unable to insulate their homes themselves. we hope that this will help european citizens to save energy, both in their pockets and in the face of global warming. the current romanian government has established this measure as a priority level 0 measure and the facilities that have been adopted allow this priority to be already secured.
2010 is the year in which we will make the mid-term review of the use of the structural funds and i believe that energy efficiency must be a priority. i regret that no amendments to these reports have been accepted. as rapporteur for energy efficiency in buildings i proposed to increase by up to 15% the share of the erdf that can be used for energy efficiency in buildings. it is actually about more flexibility and it is up to the member states to decide whether and how much they want to allocate to this area. i understand the urgency; the eu-15 countries must be able to use the structural funds for energy efficiency and i believe that this will allow for the exchange of good practice and support for the new member states. i ask the commission to come forward by 30 june 2010 with a new legislative proposal to raise the maximum ceiling to 15% or even to have a minimum threshold of 10% of the erdf quota for energy efficiency in buildings.
in writing. the wider european economic recovery plan, namely the revision of the european regional development fund (erdf) regulation, presents a number of opportunities for eu member states, all the more so as the international economic crisis is slowing down national economies. the new measure proposed in the review report of the erdf regulation on investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in the housing sector for all member states is beneficial in terms of both job creation and improving the energy efficiency of housing. meeting the objectives of the community's energy and climate change strategy is a very serious matter, which should not be overlooked by the economic crisis or other considerations. in this respect, the proposals for the revision of the erdf effectively combine measures to counter the effects of the economic crisis (by creating jobs, increasing investment, etc.) with measures to protect the environment (by insulating buildings and investing in renewable energy). for these reasons, i believe that the energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing investment report is an important step the union is taking and i am confident that member states will make the most of this opportunity.
in writing. the social consequences of the crisis are increasingly felt in all member states. in particular, as regards employment, we are facing a situation which is deteriorating rapidly in all the member states of the european union. the secretary general of the organization for economic cooperation and development points out that the unemployment rate in the eu and the us is estimated to reach 10% this year. this is a worrying increase, given that the average rate in the eu was 8% in january. in romania, although the official rate is below the european average, there has been a 1% increase in the unemployment rate in the last year, reaching 5.3%. but we expect accelerated growth as more businesses are forced to lay off workers and as our nationals working abroad return home because of job losses. that is why, in view of this situation which threatens to degenerate into a cascade of social imbalances which we risk losing control over, i would like to stress the need to pay greater attention to the problems of unemployment, which are the most affected and vulnerable among us in the context of this crisis.
in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal to amend the erdf regulation so that all member states and regions in the european union can invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy measures in housing with the help of the structural funds. under the current regulation, the erdf already supports interventions in the housing sector, including energy efficiency, but only for the new member states (eu-12) and under certain conditions. it is important to allow member states to change their priorities and reprogram their operational programmes to finance measures in this area if they wish. given that a ceiling of 4% of the total erdf allocation to each member state has been imposed on expenditure related to improving energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in existing dwellings, it is necessary to increase this ceiling to 15% so that investments in this area have the greatest impact on european union citizens. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr emmanouil angelakas, on his contribution to this report.
in writing. according to research, electricity consumption in romania is one of the highest in central and eastern europe. improving energy management could be a direct driver of economic growth, reducing pollution and saving resources so that they are used in the most productive way. to achieve this in romania, it is necessary to inform the population about the economic benefits that can be obtained through energy efficiency management practices, providing to this end, to all those interested, advice on access to erdf funds on modern energy saving techniques. this will increase the comfort of household consumers, while reducing energy bills, increasing energy efficiency throughout the energy chain and verifying compliance with current energy efficiency legislation. this will decisively lead to a reorientation of energy policy based on energy production towards an active energy policy of energy saving, aiming at saving resources through energy conservation.
in writing. i am glad that we are finally taking concrete steps to reduce the red tape in accessing eu funds, but it is a pity that only in the context of the crisis are proposals for simpler and more flexible regulations on eu funds being put forward. i want to emphasise one important aspect of these regulations: raising the threshold for investment in energy efficiency in buildings. in states that have experienced urban systemization and forced industrialization, the issue of energy efficiency in buildings is one that affects millions of citizens. so far, very little of these funds has been used, but i believe that, with only two years left in the current financial programming period, we cannot even have an exact picture of the absorption rate. therefore, the increase of this threshold was necessary in view of the large number of beneficiaries and the opportunity for job creation. however, for romania this will remain a problem as long as, at the commission's request, these actions are only eligible for those cities selected as development poles. i hope that the commission's promise to renegotiate certain lines of the operational programmes already approved will also be fulfilled, so that funds can be reallocated to those measures with the greatest potential for economic growth.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation that is the subject of this report is an example of how european money can be 'put to work' to bring greater benefits to european citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to do so in the near future. i would stress that for the country i represent, romania, these changes mean doubling the community funds that can be invested in the thermal rehabilitation of housing blocks. these funds will complement the very ambitious programme of thermal insulation of the blocks launched by the romanian government. what does this mean? first of all, reducing energy waste. then, by default, reducing energy imports. then, by implication, the reduction in the cost of heating the homes that citizens have to bear. i hope that this is just the beginning and that the european union will promote more and more investment in energy efficiency. i have supported this idea since the beginning of my mandate as a member of the european parliament and that is why i shall vote tomorrow in favour of the angelakas report and in favour of the commission's proposal for a regulation.
in writing. the angelakas report brings a welcome simplification of the eligibility conditions for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in housing. the expansion of the use of flat rates and lump sums will have a positive impact on the day-to-day management of the structural funds. amending article 7 of the erdf regulation to allow all eu member states to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy measures in housing with the structural funds is a welcome step not only in the context of the current economic crisis. the accession of the eu-27 to the erdf was another step towards achieving the target of 20% of europe's energy coming from renewable sources by 2020. with eu accession, renewable energy and energy efficiency have also become mandatory targets in romania. in this way, in romania, the legislation on thermal rehabilitation of residential buildings will be amended so that 50% of the necessary funds are covered by the state, the owners pay only 20% of the costs and the local authorities 30%. to give some figures, at the end of 2008 1900 apartments had been thermally rehabilitated. for 2009, the ministry of regional development will allocate 130 million euros for thermal rehabilitation, among the beneficiaries being kindergartens, schools, homes for the elderly.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's initiative to change some financial conditions for the structural and cohesion funds so that more cash can reach the member states faster. i believe that this effort by the european commission must be continued by increasing the financial resources allocated to the jasper, jeremie, jessica and jasmine facilities, which are proving effective in speeding up access to european funds by the new member states.
experts' estimates of possible problems on the world food market and providing for the entire world population are a reason to rethink the way agricultural land is used in europe, especially in the new member states, including romania. in this respect, a realistic assessment of the possibilities offered by romania to investors interested in investments in the agricultural sector, which seems to be, at this time of crisis, the most sought after, is necessary. at least that is what a study published in bucharest shows, pointing to a significant increase in investment in romania in the agricultural and forestry land sector. the study's authors explain that these real estate segments are the least affected by the current difficult economic situation in the market. on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that romania was once the breadbasket of europe, but returning to this status requires policies that support farmers, while also using the community funds that romania can benefit from as a member state.
on 5 april, elections will be held in the republic of moldova. this morning, an explosion occurred at the ananiev-tiraspol-ismail main gas pipeline in transnistria for reasons still unknown, causing the disruption of gas supplies from russia to the balkans. i hope this accident doesn't affect the outcome of the election. at the same time, i think it has to do with two very important things. efforts to resolve the frozen conflicts in the area, particularly in transnistria, are urgently needed, and the european union must find concrete and viable solutions for the development of alternative energy routes to the black sea. unfortunately, the deal struck late last week between gazprom and the state oil company of azerbaijan may put the nabuco project in jeopardy. for this reason, increased attention must be paid to all aspects related to strengthening the energy security of the european union. thank you, sir.
the danube plays a very important role in the economic and social cohesion as well as the cultural development of europe. the european danube commission, established on 30 march 1856 following the paris conference, with its seat in galati, romania, was one of the first european institutions and had as its objective the establishment of an international regime for free movement on the danube. priority axis 18 of the ten-t network, consisting of the danube, mein and rhine canal, links the black sea to the north sea, shortening the distance between the seaports of rotterdam and constanta by 4 000 km. the danube must be given greater priority in community policies. i propose that an intergroup for the promotion of the danube be set up at the beginning of the next european parliament term. in the years ahead, we will need to bring together all the development initiatives in the danube area in a common effort and a common approach. we need an integrated european development strategy in the danube basin for economic development, transport infrastructure and environmental protection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last week, several hundred romanian citizens were prevented from entering the territory of the republic of moldova. most of them without any explanation or under the most bizarre pretexts, such as, for example, that they have no papers to show that they are not infected with the hiv virus. the abuse is unprecedented. never have other european citizens had their right to free movement so grossly violated. i strongly support the european path of the republic of moldova and its citizens, but i protest against this gross abuse and ask the european commission and the council to ask the authorities in chisinau for explanations, as romania has already requested through the foreign minister. thank you, sir.
today in the european parliament a conference was organized under the strange title of the overthrow of the so-called hungarian soviet republic. there was no such country, no such historical event. i reject any political attitude which, for nationalist reasons, subordinates to the interests of the nation state the historical questions connected with the subsequent justification of the territorial aspirations of a state. it is unacceptable that the invasion of hungary since november 1918, the romanian military occupation and the plundering of the country, at an event organized under the auspices of meps, is interpreted as a regional stabilizing factor here in the heart of europe, in brussels. on behalf of the hungarian community in romania, i strongly protest against the cynical behavior of our romanian socialist colleagues and their attempt to form a nationalistically motivated opinion, misleading information maneuver.
the community code on visas integrates the procedures and conditions for the issuing of schengen visas by the member states and harmonises the existing provisions on decisions to refuse, extend or annul such visas. it is important that a member state which does not have its own consulate in a third country is represented by another member state which has a diplomatic or consular representation in the third country. the code should take into account the bilateral agreements concluded by the community, in particular with the states participating in the european union's neighbourhood and partnership policy, with a view to facilitating the processing of visa applications and the application of simplified procedures. i do not think that the right of member states to cooperate with commercial intermediaries will make a significant contribution to simplifying the procedures for processing visa applications. this is because the code provides for the presentation of visa applicants in person when submitting the first application for biometric data, as well as the possibility for any visa applicant to be called for an interview for a schengen visa. the purpose of the schengen visa code is to provide a uniform external image of the european union, to treat visa applicants equally, and to create clear criteria and rules for exemption for a number of third countries. in this context, i think it is appropriate to recall that the european union must do everything necessary to ensure that its member states are treated uniformly by third countries which apply visa exemptions only to certain member states. it is not possible to have two classes of european citizens when they want to travel to, say, australia or the united states.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i shall read out the commission statement on the assessment of driving time and rest periods. regulation (ec) no 561/2006 entered into force on 11 april 2007, i.e. about two years ago, replacing the rules on driving times and rest periods which had remained unchanged for more than 20 years. since its adoption, the commission has actively monitored its application, in particular through numerous meetings with the member states, with industry and trade unions, within the committee and the various working groups set up by the committee. the commission will shortly publish the biannual report on the implementation of the social rules. one of the preliminary conclusions is that member states' efforts and investments in control need to be increased to reach the levels required by european legislation. the commission has taken initiatives, including guidelines, to be published in agreement with the member states, to ensure the harmonized application of the rules on driving time and rest periods, for example in cases where the driver has to interrupt his rest because of an emergency. the commission is also actively working on improving the digital tachograph. in january, a package of measures to increase the security of the system was adopted. the member states will thus have to develop specific equipment for the control of the tachograph. a second package of measures to adapt the technical specifications on the chronotachograph is currently being discussed in committee. these measures will make it easier for drivers to use the tachograph by simplifying manual input. the commission concludes from this observation of the application of the regulation that, over the last two years, the new legislation on driving time, on rest periods, has been a success. the commission, together with the member states, has just convinced the countries that are joining the aetr to adopt these new rules from 2010. but of course the member states must ensure that social rules are applied in a harmonised way in europe. i was able to say this to parliament on behalf of the commission and i shall listen carefully to the speeches of the various members.
on behalf of the pse group. european regulations on working time and driving time, rest periods for road hauliers are concerned with social conditions in road transport, but above all with road safety. unfortunately, the european union has failed to do enough to reduce road accidents. it is true that member states must improve their traffic controls. as rapporteur on social conditions, i analysed the first report by the european commission, which was supposed to be biannual; unfortunately, it was delayed then, but in that report i found that some member states had exceeded the minimum number of checks they had to carry out, but there were also member states which had not fulfilled these obligations. i am glad that in mr grosch's report on market access we were able, together with the council of the european union, to introduce a compromise text, namely that we requested that all traffic controls be non-discriminatory on the basis of neither nationality nor the country of residence of the transport operator. commissioner, we need secure parking areas! there was a draft report on the construction of secure car parks on the border between the european union and russia, but unfortunately these car parks are insufficient. member states need to invest more in safe parking places because, unfortunately, 40% of robberies of road hauliers take place in parking places. i also made an amendment to the budget so that we could allocate a sum for the construction of safe parking lots. i believe that the conditions regarding driving time and rest periods can only be met if we create conditions for transport operators to comply with these provisions.
respect for driving times and rest periods for drivers is essential to ensure a high level of safety on european roads and to protect passengers. the european commission adopted in january 2009 a package of measures to prevent misuse of the tachograph and to strengthen member states' controls on compliance with driving and rest regulations. the measures are welcome in view of the many problems that have been raised over time with working time recording systems, primarily those related to the digital tachograph, and the fact that the existing legislative provisions have been considered to be inflexible and difficult to apply. i consider that one of the most important aspects to be considered by the commission is the value of the transposition of directive 22/2006 into the national laws of the member states and the harmonisation of the national provisions drawn up pursuant to article 19 of regulation no 561/2006. in these respects, romania has fulfilled its obligations, but there are still member states where this process is not definitive, which also results in difficulties in the correct application of sanctions in cross-border situations and in the collection of fines for breaches of legislation. in view of the biennial reports of the member states in this last reference period, and the many difficulties reported by the carriers, i call on the european commission to consider the appropriateness of revising regulation no 561/2006.
in writing. – the topics of education and migration are closely related because both migration within the european union and immigration into the eu have considerably increased over recent years and there are a number of issues that we should observe more carefully in the future. i also support the idea that the directive 77/486/ec is outdated. let us remember that this directive dates from 1977 and the european union has been changing ever since. to give just an example, my country (romania) joined the eu over 20 years later, and i feel that this directive does not offer a solution to our problems. the migration related issues have dramatically increased over recent years, and i support mr takkula’s idea to amend this directive. i would even go one step further and suggest there be a new directive dealing with the education of the children of migrants.
in writing. the increase in migration, including internal migration, in the eu has a number of important cultural, economic and social implications. in this regard, it is essential to ensure equal opportunities for migrants and to pay greater attention to combating discrimination against them. the situation of the roma - whose problem is of a particular nature and degree of difficulty - is very telling in this respect. i also want to draw attention to the implications for labour mobility of the difficult integration of the children of those working abroad into a foreign educational environment. therefore, supporting the early integration of children can play an important role in preventing the ghettoization of migrants, especially since it has been found that the educational level and socioeconomic situation of migrant children are lower than that of other children, so a boost is needed. the better the conditions for early integration into a foreign educational environment, the greater their chances of success in school and the labour market. at the same time, however, learning the language of the host country and assimilating local characteristics should not mean abandoning one's own cultural heritage.
in writing. one of the european union's basic principles is freedom of movement, which allows citizens to work, study and travel in another country. it is important to consider the social integration of internal migrants as a responsibility of the whole society; the education of migrant children is a step in this direction. the education of migrant children must be seen both from the point of view of a better day-to-day functioning of european society and from the point of view of cultural enrichment. to this end, i believe that cooperation between the host and the country of origin is necessary, through which the country of origin actively participates in the preservation of its language and culture. we support the introduction of the mother tongue as a second foreign language in the school curriculum of the host country where there are large immigrant communities. recruiting school staff from these communities is a way of ensuring that children are both exposed to the culture of their home country and share their immigration experiences.
in writing. the commission's green paper raises a number of questions about one of the major issues facing member states at this time: the education of migrant children. there are many romani children living with their families in other member states and it is important for them to preserve their identity, to be given the opportunity to study both the language of the country in which they live and their mother tongue. we need to promote tolerance and understanding, and to find solutions together to ensure education in the mother tongues of migrants. these children must have the same rights as other children. it is well known that their precarious economic situation leads to isolation, school dropouts and violence, which is why we must support member states in finding solutions. children are the most valuable resource we have, they are the future of our society, no matter what their background.
rapporteur. − mr president, of all the fundamental rights granted to eu citizens, the one that helps unite all of us the most is the right of freedom of movement in the european union. that right, provided for in the treaties, is implemented by directive 2004/38/ec, which lays down both the conditions and the restrictions for eu citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the eu. as of 1 january 2006, over 8 million eu citizens have exercised this right to reside in another member state, and millions more have used it to travel through the eu. as the european parliament rapporteur on the evaluation of this directive, i must say that the concrete application of the right of free movement for our citizens is seriously undermined by member states which erect dams in breach of the treaties and of the directive. first, talking about the transposition by member states, we can say it has been poor at best. the commission, along with two separate studies commissioned by parliament, points to a series of problems, some of them being breaches of the core rights of eu citizens. these problems are highlighted in my report. there are many unjustified administrative burdens, particularly for third-country-national family members, which include: entry requirements and lengthy procedural delays; a lack of recognition of free movement rights for certain registered partners, including those in same-sex relationships; public policy exceptions to serve economic or security aims which ignore the principle of proportionality, resulting in abuses of expulsion orders; and discrimination against certain nationals and ethnic communities in relation to the rights they should be granted by the directive. second, to those who chose to focus solely on abuses and misuses of this right, i agree that these issues are important, but i say that article 35 of the directive already provides member states with the possibility to fight against those abuses, such as marriages of convenience or fraud – one just has to implement it. i also want to mention that i have constructively cooperated with national parliaments, the commission and the committee on legal affairs rapporteur, monica frassoni, who all share my concern over the aforementioned transposition problems and the need for all parties to help to resolve them immediately. my report also calls for a number of measures aimed at providing solutions. one of the most important and immediate steps that must be taken is the creation by the commission of comprehensive transposition guidelines. those guidelines would serve to provide clarity in the interpretation of such notions as ‘sufficient resources’ and ‘public security’. once this has been done, it will be up to the member states to implement those guidelines, preferably by the end of 2009. discriminatory transitional agreements that restrict the movement of workers from member states that joined the eu after 2004 must finally be repealed or revised. more funding must be allocated to help local integration measures for eu citizens residing in other member states and, finally, the commission must not hesitate to open infringement proceedings against member states who are not complying with the directive. we have to recognise that member states need finally to correctly apply and transpose the directive so that these and other problems are resolved expediently. they should not try to escape their duties in ensuring free movement by asking for a revision to water down the directive. the european parliament firmly opposes such revision and thanks the commission for doing the same. it is time for the member states and the council to ensure that europe is a place where not only capital, services and goods, but also our citizens, can circulate. without free movement, there is no europe. let me conclude by saying that i shall move a revised oral amendment to a footnote in my report in order to take away any excuse for those who oppose free movement on a nationalistic, racist or xenophobic basis, but who do not dare to declare it openly, to vote against my report. with the roll-call vote tomorrow, we will see who supports europe and european citizenship, free movement and citizens’ rights without discrimination, and who does not.
in writing. i fully support ms valean's report on the application of directive 2004/38/ec, especially as recent events in certain member states have drawn attention to the flagrant violation of one of the four fundamental freedoms, namely the right of citizens to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. the inefficient or even the lack of transposition of this directive into the national legislation of the member states has also given rise to a number of abuses in the area of administrative formalities and restrictive interpretation of the legislative provisions on the concept of 'illegal residence', culminating in the unjust detention and expulsion of european citizens. however, the solution is not to close borders, but rather to look for concrete measures to facilitate the integration of citizens into the diversity of european societies. i believe that this report will make a significant contribution to monitoring the transposition of the rules laid down in this directive if the member states and the commission succeed in working together and cooperating in this respect. today, all european citizens want to live in a european union where fundamental values such as the free movement of persons are respected, but we must not forget that to achieve this goal, we all have to make our own contribution.
reducing energy consumption and managing resources efficiently are now fundamental principles for a considerable number of socioeconomic actors. since 1993, when the community environmental management and audit scheme was introduced, some 4 200 organisations have been registered under the scheme. i believe it is necessary to strengthen this system by increasing the number of organisations applying it and its recognition as a benchmark environmental system. the romanian parliament palace consumes the energy of a city of 20,000 people. i've already proposed to the management of the institution to join this system as soon as possible. the special attention paid to small organisations such as smes and local authorities is, in my view, an important step towards extending environmental performance to the widest possible scale. i encourage the commission and the member states to make efforts to promote emas in particular by providing incentives in exchange for participation. as regards the monitoring of emas progress, this will lead to the acceptance of the system and the creation of awards for positive developments in the field. i believe that the rapporteur's proposal to introduce a user manual is salutary, as the language and requirements expressed will become more accessible through this tool. there is currently an annual reporting cycle which i find sufficient and i do not see why there would be a need to introduce a new three-year cycle which would prove confusing. although emas has yet to prove its viability and effectiveness, i support its continuation for as long as necessary, with the primary aim of maintaining the integrity of the environment. thank you, sir.
the information on the eco-label of products must be easy to understand and the eco-label must be placed in such a way as to stand out and define the product concerned. the information on the eco-label should relate to the energy performance of products and be easy to understand and should be based on scientific evidence. the commission and the member states should ensure that the necessary funds are committed to awareness-raising and eco-label promotion campaigns. i ask the european commission to create an official european union website that covers all information and practices on eco-labelling in the european union. however, revising the eco-labelling criteria for different products every 18 months is a bureaucratic process. if this system is to be effective, it must not be accompanied by an increase in administrative burden. however, i believe that a community work plan for a minimum period of three years setting out common objectives and a non-exhaustive list of product groups to be considered as priorities is necessary. the establishment of eco-labelling criteria should avoid introducing measures whose implementation may impose disproportionate administrative and economic burdens on smes. thank you, sir.
the president-in-office of the council. - thank you for an extremely positive and interesting debate on this subject. i think the basic characteristic of consumption and consumer society is consumption. i had the opportunity to go through a society that had lived in a totalitarian regime for 40 years and had a shortage of goods and the consumption potential was enormous. we have been through development, and i think it's an interesting experience for the further enlargement of europe and the modernisation of developing countries. we've been through a period of tremendous will to consume, to consume. yet it turns out that when this possibility suddenly appears, this wide range of products and goods, that the proportion of people in society who are sensitive to the quality of food, the quality of products, the quality of water, the quality of air, is expanding, and that it is very important whether europe can provide these consumers with information about what the impacts on the environment, health, climate, on sustainable development in other areas, for example, outside the european union, are of the consumption of which products of which goods. and that is why i think and believe that if the european parliament approves these two regulations, it will be a very nice gift for the citizens of the european union, because they will have the opportunity of a much wider choice. i believe that the products and foods that are so much discussed in the debate will be included quickly, and i believe that this will actually enable the citizens of the european union to actively contribute to the protection of the environment through their own consumer choice, and that this will give the citizens the opportunity to feel better and to feel better about being actively involved in the protection of the environment themselves, each and every one of them. i would like to thank all of you - again the rapporteurs, the council, parliament and the commission - for this proposal and for the very good cooperation with the czech presidency, which i believe has brought this first reading to a successful conclusion.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers in today's debate for their very constructive and positive contributions. based on the text agreed for emas, organisations and businesses, in particular smes, from all over the world will have access to a simple and effective eco-management system. with this revised emas, participating companies will have a clear benefit, as through their environmental reports they will be able to showcase their environmental performance to consumers, the public, as well as to other companies and inspectors and auditors. the text of the eco-label regulation, thanks to the amendments proposed by parliament, has been further improved from an environmental point of view and is now more accessible to businesses. the amendments by parliament also played a very important role in ensuring the credibility of the brand among consumers and environmental organisations. the revised eco-label will be more flexible, allowing criteria to be developed at a later stage for the inclusion of even more products and services, in particular from product categories with significant environmental impacts and therefore with great potential for improvement. the adoption of this text at first reading will increase the number of products bearing the eco-label and will thus give consumers a much greater choice in their purchases. the aim is, of course, to ensure that the european labelling system is widely recognised and that its prestige and credibility are safeguarded at international level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental label is recognised by consumers and businesses throughout the european union. i would therefore like to stress that mr wijkman is quite right in saying that we must strengthen even more the promotion and marketing of the eco-label. the commission has therefore devoted more resources and resources than ever to strengthening this marketing of the eco-label. we also fully share mr howitt's view of the prospects of emas at international level. in particular, international iso standards have already been included and integrated into emas. the emas will now be open to submission by international companies outside the european union. we want to reduce red tape and ensure that the various texts referring to the relevant criteria are simple and easy to use, and that the eco-label is as harmonized as possible with other international and national labels. the text of the proposal gives us this possibility, as it refers to the drawing up of specific explanatory documents and the introduction of specific rules to promote harmonization with national marks. i would like to put to the vote three statements by the commission on the minutes of today's sitting: - the first concerns the way in which misleading claims in fishery products are dealt with; - the second statement concerns the commission's intention to ensure that the revised eco-label regulation does not conflict with other regulations concerning chemicals, such as the reach regulation; - the third statement concerns the commission's plan to review the level of fees corresponding to the eco-label. in conclusion, i would like to say that both emas and the eco-label are excellent initiatives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european parliament has taken the decision to implement emas and we are waiting for the council to do the same. with today's revision proposal, emas and the eco-label can become benchmarks for good environmental management and good environmental performance of products. i would therefore like to stress once again the importance of reaching agreement at first reading. the text has been changed in a very useful way and the result is very balanced. i therefore invite you to support this text in its entirety without further amendments. before closing, i would like to thank the rapporteurs again for their extremely useful contribution and i really think that with their own hard work, but also with the cooperation of the czech presidency, we are able to agree on a first reading, which is very important. in relation to the ecolabel regulation's relationship to upcoming fisheries legislation independently of the adoption of the ecolabel regulation, the commission confirms that it intends to propose a regulation on the eco-labelling of fishery products before the end of this year to be mainly based on criteria for sustainable fishing. the study provided for in article 6 (5) (a) of the ecolabel regulation dealing with additional aspects such as processing, pre-packaging, packaging and transport, which will examine the feasibility of extending the scope of the ecolabel regulation to food, including fishery and aquaculture products, will not influence or prejudge the adoption of this regulation. 2) in relation to consistency with chemicals legislationthe commission will ensure that the implementation of the ecolabel regulation will be consistent with the other relevant community legislation addressing substances, preparations and mixtures. 3) in relation to fees reviewthe commission confirms its intention to review the level of fees for the ecolabel within 18 months of the entry into force of the regulation, taking into account the cost incurred by member states in administering the scheme, and to propose a revision of the fee levels as appropriate.
in writing. i fully support ms valeane's report on the application of directive 2004/38/ec, all the more so as recent events in certain member states have drawn attention to the flagrant violation of one of the four fundamental freedoms, namely the right of citizens to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. the ineffective or even the lack of transposition of that directive into the national legislation of the member states has also given rise to a number of abuses in the area of administrative formalities and the restrictive interpretation of the legislative provisions on the concept of 'illegal stay', culminating in the unjust detention and expulsion of european citizens. however, the solution is not to close borders, but rather to seek concrete measures to facilitate the integration of citizens into the diversity of european societies. i believe that this report will make a significant contribution to monitoring the transposition of the rules laid down in this directive, if the member states and the commission succeed in working together and cooperating in this respect. today, all european citizens want to live in a european union where fundamental values such as the free movement of persons are respected, but we must not forget that we must all contribute to this goal.
in writing. the eco-label is voluntary and aims to promote the spread of products with high efficiency and low environmental impact throughout their life cycle at european level. the experience gained from implementing this certification for almost a decade - 26 product categories, 622 licences and over 3000 products and services (detergents, paper, clothing, footwear, textiles, tourism, camping products) - suggests the need for more decisive intervention to address certain key aspects of the system. as many economic operators are dissatisfied with the long approval procedure for criteria and their rapid moral wear and tear once approved, changes have been introduced to their approval (maximum 180 days between the completion of the evaluation and approval, a simplified and shortened review procedure for non-essential changes to the criteria) and a new label award system. the credibility of the eco-label certification system requires:- the general principle of consumer health and environmental protection to be applied even to labelled products; - promotion activities: improving consumer information, launching awareness campaigns to maintain confidence in the eco-label, using european funds; - giving special attention to smes. i support the report and congratulate the rapporteur.
rapporteur. − mr president, in order to remove any misunderstanding and to comply with the requests made by italian colleagues from the new partito della libertà belonging to the ppe-de and uen groups, i propose an oral amendment to footnote 1 to recital s, first indent, to delete the last two sentences and insert ‘it’ (italy) in the sequence at the beginning of the paragraph. you have this in your voting list.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on community statistics on the information society because information and communication technologies represent an important part of productivity in the european union and of gross domestic product growth. the purpose of this regulation is to ensure the continuity of the existing common framework for the systematic production of reliable, harmonised, timely and high quality community statistics on the information society and for the transmission of annual statistical data on the use of ict in enterprises and households. i support those provisions which aim to simplify administrative procedures for public authorities (community or national) and private individuals. i believe that there is a continuing need at european level for the annual transmission of consistent statistical information in the field of the information society. i support the implementation of the i2010 strategy. it promotes an open and competitive digital economy and underlines the essential role of information and communication technologies for inclusion and quality of life. this strategy is considered a fundamental element of the renewed lisbon partnership for growth and jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs karin jöns because i support the addition of new types of costs eligible for a contribution from the european social fund. i believe that the changes proposed in the report will lead to an accelerated application of the fund, to simplification of the management, administration and control of operations co-financed by the esf. i would stress the need to simplify the procedures for allocating funding from the structural funds. it was found that delays in the implementation of regional development policy are caused, among other things, by the overly strict procedures imposed by european legislation. in conclusion, a simplification of these is essential.
in writing. − this report makes an extremely valuable contribution to solving the acute problem of children of european citizens living and working in a member state other than their own - many of the children of romanian emigrants, for example, face difficulties in this respect. equally important is access to education in the language of the host country, with a view to easy integration, and the provision of education in the mother tongue, especially in the event of a return to the country of origin. romania, for example, is going through a relevant experience right now: many romanian pupils, children of emigrants to spain or italy, are returning home and are re-enrolled by their parents in romanian schools. it is in their interest and in their future that reintegration be free from the difficulties inherent in a change of school environment. romania is not an isolated case. other eastern member states have faced and are facing the same phenomenon, which makes it necessary to implement the proposals contained in this report as soon as possible.
in writing. - the gacek report highlights an important point: with the enlargement of the european union, there has been a considerable increase in the number of european citizens residing outside their country of origin, in a context where european citizenship is complementary to the citizenship of the member states, each of which is responsible for regulating this aspect. despite the active involvement of citizens in the initiation of legislative proposals and the attempts to make the community legislative system more transparent, europeans still face a number of problems related to the infringement and non-compliance with the right to free movement and residence of persons within the territory of the member states. the differences between member states in the rules governing the requirement for a visa or the exercise of the right to vote in both the country of origin and the country of adoption call into question the equality of rights of all european citizens. i therefore believe that the member states should take all the necessary measures to ensure that the rules aimed at harmonising the rights of european citizens are effectively transposed, and in this case we must take into account that the starting point is the partnership, whether between the member states and the eu or between regional, local and civil institutions. last but not least, member states must guarantee the right to vote to all eu citizens residing in a member state other than their own at the time of the legislative elections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the role of culture in the development of european regions, because i believe that the eu must give greater support to cultural projects. i believe that regional and local development strategies that incorporate culture, creativity and the arts contribute greatly to improving the quality of life in european regions and cities by fostering cultural diversity, democracy, participation and intercultural dialogue. the resolution calls on the commission to present a green paper containing a series of measures in the field of contemporary cultural activities aimed at strengthening development in european regions. i believe that the cultural spirit of europe is an important means of bringing europeans together in a way that respects their different cultural and linguistic identities. cultures in europe are strategic factors in the development of europe at local, regional and national level as well as at the level of the eu institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'better schools: a programme of european cooperation'. i believe that the eu must support the modernisation and improvement of school curricula so that they reflect current labour market requirements, current social, economic, cultural and technical realities. i appreciate that the school should aim to improve employability, but also to give young people the chance to develop their personal skills. we also need to take into account the need for young people to be able to acquire basic democratic skills.
i am very concerned about the events that have taken place recently in the republic of moldova. the worst are the human rights violations, the arrests, the kidnappings, the torture, the intimidation, the expulsion of journalists. the will of the moldovan citizens has been tainted by the authorities through numerous irregularities that can arguably support the assumption that the elections were rigged. the extra lists, the extra ballots, the harassment of the opposition, the banning of public television, the campaign that state institutions have done for the communist party. although there have been many voices protesting at european and international level in recent weeks, unfortunately the situation in the republic of moldova has not improved. i hope that in this week's debate, as well as on the occasion of the ad hoc mission to moldova, and especially through the resolution we are expecting at the last session in may, the european parliament will send a very clear message that the european union does not tolerate human rights violations and will openly call for the holding of new elections in moldova.
mr president, the recent negative developments in moldova illustrate a number of issues worth mentioning. the first is our response to the violations of eu core values by the moldovan authorities during the reprisals against young people and journalists, following the protests against the results of the elections. any lenience on our part would cast a shadow over eu credibility in this respect. the second is the eu response to the procedural breach by the moldovan authorities in implementing their agreements with us and by discriminating against european citizens on nationality grounds. again, eu credibility and authority are at stake. the third is eu solidarity in the face of the false accusations against one of its members, a possible pretext for freezing the military situation in the area in breach of important undertakings in the field. fourthly, the eu reaction will emphasise once again the difference in status between countries sharing a similar destiny in 1940 and indicate the future direction of eu-russia relations.
i would like to point out that the increasingly frequent unwanted incidents, which started last year with armenia and continued this year with georgia and moldova, are making us think because of two things they have in common: all three countries are members of the eastern partnership and the scenario is identical. i think we should take that into account. last week the president of moldova, mr voronin, even said that he wanted to give up this eastern partnership so that he could continue the unwanted things he is doing against human rights in moldova and i think that the european union should work closely with the council of europe and the osce.
the reporter. - commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, buildings are responsible for 40% of primary energy consumption and 40% of greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, taking urgent action to improve the energy performance of buildings is the safest, fastest and least costly way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, the increase in the energy performance of buildings also has a huge potential for the union's economic recovery, by creating over 250 000 new jobs, by the necessary investments to promote renewable energy and energy efficient buildings and, not least, by improving the quality of life of european citizens by reducing the value of utility bills. the commission's new proposal to amend the existing directive provides for the abolition of the 1000 m2 threshold, the establishment of minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and a process of convergence between the minimum requirements set at national level, the promotion of buildings that produce locally an amount of energy from renewable sources equal to the primary energy used, the financing from public sources only of the construction of buildings that meet minimum energy performance requirements. parliament introduced important amendments such as: extending the scope of the directive to include central heating and cooling systems, increasing the role and standardising the format of energy performance certificates for buildings, establishing a common methodology for setting minimum energy performance requirements, implementing the recommendations of the energy performance certificate for public institutions during its validity, new provisions on consumer information, training of auditors and experts, and granting, from 2019, building permits for buildings that produce local renewable energy at least as much as conventional energy, and introducing new provisions on inspections of heating or cooling installations. i invite my colleagues to visit this week the exhibition on this type of building net zero building which is present in the european parliament, organised together with wwf. although the energy performance of buildings directive has been in place since 2002, its implementation in the various member states is not satisfactory. member states identified the lack of funding as the main barrier to the proper implementation of the directive. the european parliament has therefore proposed to finance measures on the energy performance of buildings from the european regional development fund, to create a european energy performance fund for buildings and to promote renewable energy through the contribution of the eib, the european commission and the member states, to use a reduced vat rate for energy efficiency services and products in buildings, to develop national programmes to support the energy efficiency of buildings through the adoption of financial instruments and specific tax measures. last but not least, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the technical staff of the itre commission, as well as the cfsp staff of the itre commission with whom i have worked in an exemplary way. i look forward to your colleagues' comments.
commissioner, the first advantage that citizens will enjoy in the new free market scenario is rooted in the very essence of the concept of democracy. i mean freedom. functional markets where new entrants have the opportunity to make energy services available to citizens will provide a beneficial alternative for consumers. they will thus go from being passive beneficiaries of a service to active players in the market. they will be able to switch suppliers if the services are of poor quality, if there are power cuts or if prices are too high. freedom of choice will allow consumers to actively participate in the fight against climate change by choosing suppliers that offer renewable or low-carbon energy. the new package of measures will bring lower prices, innovative products and a higher quality of service. another way in which citizens will benefit from the liberalisation of the energy sector is through the security of energy supply. i welcome the introduction into the new legislation of the special measure for the protection of vulnerable consumers.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done and i am sure we all wonder why we do not yet have a common market for electricity and a common market for natural gas and i think that here every member state which has not yet complied with the european directives should do so. secondly, i welcome the decision to set up the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and i would like to inform the european parliament that romania has submitted its candidature to host this agency.
the reporter. - ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the energy performance of buildings directive is one of the most important measures parliament has adopted, both for improving the quality of life of european citizens and for the economic recovery of the union. european citizens expect concrete actions and solutions to the very concrete problems and needs they face. i personally think that an increase of up to 15% of the share of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states to finance the energy performance of housing is a necessity. this would give member states more flexibility and the possibility to use next year's mid-term review of the use of the structural funds to redefine their operational programmes accordingly in order to better absorb the structural funds. i would like to stress that this directive has a very high potential for creating new jobs: some 500 000 jobs could be created at european level with major implications for the regional or national labour market. commissioner, i hope you will continue to support including the introduction of a minimum quota from the european development fund, at least in the future, for energy efficiency in buildings. i would like to thank once again the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the itre committee and also the fellow rapporteurs who have supported us and with whom we have had a very good cooperation.
the reporter. - madam president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, it is rare for a liberal to promote intervention in the market by regulating prices, even if only by setting a ceiling. however, in the case of mobile roaming charges, this is necessary and can only be achieved collectively at european union level. it is necessary because excessive tariffs raise practical obstacles to free movement and communication between european citizens. removing these obstacles is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union and one of my personal objectives as a member of the european parliament. that is why i have taken on the responsibility of being rapporteur for this regulation, but also for the report of the european parliament adopted earlier this month on the administrative and legal barriers raised by the member states to the free movement of european citizens. this regulation is necessary for the small business owner on a business trip who needs to communicate with his home-based co-workers to solve a problem. it's important for the journalist who emails a story directly from the scene, it's important for the young man who sends a text message to his girlfriend, it's important for the migrant worker who wants to hear his children's voice on the phone. all these european citizens paid and still pay often three or four times as much to use their mobile phones, just because they are a few kilometres from their own country, right inside the community. through the regulation we'll pass tomorrow, the excessive prices will be eliminated. the maximum limits set by the regulation still allow operators to obtain a significant profit margin and to compete by offering lower prices. we are facing a complex problem of the fragmentation and functioning of the mobile phone market in europe. when choosing a mobile operator, consumers look primarily at domestic tariffs or the price offered for a new mobile phone model, but less at roaming charges. if he crosses the border into another eu country, he is subject to these charges, even if he is only receiving a call. the consumer can only choose not to communicate with his mobile phone. competition between operators does not work in this respect. in turn, the home operator has to pay the visited operator to carry the signal. some countries, such as tourist destinations, receive many visitors in a short period of time, while others, on the contrary, have more citizens going abroad, so that supply and demand are imbalanced and this results in high wholesale tariffs and between operators. in addition, in some countries the cost of installing and operating mobile networks is higher, in addition, smaller operators or new entrants have shown that they are often subject to discriminatory pricing by large pan-european operators. after all, it's the consumers who pay. the regulation we're going to pass tomorrow is a short-term solution. we cannot regulate prices indefinitely, because that affects innovation and can affect competitiveness. the regulation therefore provides for the obligation for the european commission to examine various other means of regulating the market. some of these measures are suggested in the regulation itself: in two or three years' time we will be able to discuss more options, with more information at our disposal. i hope that we can then put in place a legislative framework to have competitive roaming charges in the long term. apart from that, parliament has improved the regulation in my view in several respects. we have reduced the maximum gross roaming charges to 50 cents per megabyte to encourage the use of this service and fair competition in the field. we have increased transparency in communicating mobile roaming internet charges to customers, we have considerably relaxed the provisions to limit monthly data roaming charges to eur 50 for those who wish to do so. roaming-rate smses sent once a consumer has entered a foreign network will also contain a reference to the unique emergency number 112, we have reduced the maximum rates for incoming and outgoing calls, keeping a profit margin for operators, we have prohibited operators who still practice this from charging customers abroad for the simple fact that someone leaves them a voice message. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues from the other political groups, commissioner reding and her colleagues, ambassador reinisova, the representatives of the czech and french presidencies, the council and our colleagues in the european parliament for the efforts they have made in a short time so that millions of citizens can enjoy fair roaming charges this summer.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on their work and on the report they have produced, yes, the european parliament is working in the interests of european citizens and i remember that the previous debate two years ago on the reduction of mobile phone charges in roaming was a very big debate. i'm glad there were no more differences of opinion, but we all quickly adopted this tariff reduction. i would like to see the further reduction of existing mobile telephone charges, both for outgoing and incoming calls, but especially the reduction of sms charges, as particularly important. we are indeed addressing not only the younger generation but all those who travel in the european union and indeed this measure is on the one hand for consumer protection but at the same time it is also a good example of how the market can be regulated in the interests of european citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like principally to thank the members who have done a wonderful job. first, of course, the rapporteur, mrs vălean, but also the rapporteurs of the other committees, the shadow rapporteurs and the spokespersons of the groups. they have made it possible, in just seven months, for a very important proposal for the free movement of citizens and the bringing down of excessive charges to become a reality. i think it is a great moment for the internal market. it is a great moment which shows to citizens that meps are taking them seriously. if you would just permit, i would like nevertheless to say – with all due respect to mr kamall, for example – that when the market does not function, it is for the political leadership to intervene. i would like somebody here in this house to explain to me how the market can be said to be functioning when the cost to operators for transferring a text message from one country to another is less than 11 cents, while the average consumer has to pay more than 28 cents. then something is not going well. so if we now fix a cap of 11 cents i think there is ample room for manoeuvre; there is ample room for competition to develop. like most of you in this chamber i would have wished the market to have functioned, so that we did not need to do this. well let us hope that we will not need to do so again in the future, and let us hope that after this decision the market really will function in the interests of the industry, in the interests of the citizen, in the interests of free movement, and in the interests of the internal market where every citizen can travel without being punished by a telephone bill.
the reporter. - reducing roaming prices is absolutely necessary, the market is not working, i agree. how we regulate is something we can still discuss. the commission's proposal to set maximum tariffs is the one we are discussing now. is it the best instrument? we don't know, but it's the only option we have at this point. i hope in the future we can find alternative methods. one last word i would like to say about the industry in this area: we must not let it be understood that the mobile industry is a ruthless exploiter of consumers. such an idea could be dangerous because the industry is a successful one that translates into jobs, significant budget contributions and technological innovation. that is why i think it is important for us as market regulators not to declare ourselves completely satisfied with our work and to look to improve it to achieve beneficial effects in the long term. i thank everyone involved in this report and hope to discuss the same with you at another time.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i thank honourable members for their remarks. i can only say that during these five discharge procedures i have enjoyed and been very happy with our cooperation. the process has always been complicated, but always constructive and very professional. so thank you all for this contribution to the complicated discharge machinery. just two remarks. to mr liberadzki i would say that the edf accounts were successfully transferred to abac in february 2009. we raised the issue, but these are now merged. jan mulder’s question as to why these radical proposals come so late was very good. four years to see this kind of proposal maturing is not too long. in europe things take time, and in this case we are trying to use all possibilities in the framework of our action plan since we see that something really serious must be done to get rid of this problem. so i do not think this is too late, but i regret of course that this has taken so much time.
mr president, commissioner, a brief word: in the main conclusions on discharge to the commission of the european union, in mr audy's report, point 4 states that he is of the opinion that the accession of romania and bulgaria was not treated by the commission with the necessary seriousness, that the two candidate countries for integration the reports for the two candidate countries were wrong and that he regrets that this erroneous information has led to the current situation, in which cohesion funds have been released to member states with dysfunctional administrative and legal systems and that this has led to public opinion and parliament being misled and to the detriment of the union's reputation. i would sincerely like colleagues dan jørgensen and paulo casaca, who made this amendment, and the colleagues who approved it in the committee on budgets, to explain their reasoning, because i believe that both romania and bulgaria have administrative and legal systems that work, perhaps not to the parameters that they should be, but they do work and i do not think that anyone has allowed themselves to mislead public opinion, much less parliament and the commission.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, by the time allocated to this debate, one might say that parliament attaches little importance to saving forests. this stops the disappointment of discovering the shy commission approach to addressing illegal logging, but what disappointed me the most was the repetition of the argument that we should not punish the good-faith eu operators in order to solve an external problem. part of solving a problem is also creating awareness about the problem, and it is high time we acknowledged that some european regions – like mine – are also confronted with rampant deforestation. the illegal logging regulation does not aim to punish or to hinder trade but rather to better control trade. it is true that the commission proposals were not really clear on how the system should work in practice. i am pleased that the ep managed to strengthen and clarify the proposal by covering all timber products and requiring all operators to exercise some sort of due diligence by introducing a new baseline for financial penalties and providing clear criteria for a credible and independent monitoring system. now our challenge is to have this system adopted and implemented sooner rather than later. we need to give consumers the guarantee that they are not fuelling the environmental degradation by accidentally buying illegally harvested timber products.
in writing. the european commission estimates that by 2050, the eu will need 60 million workers from third countries as the labour force declines at an accelerated rate. in the long term, therefore, the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy are conditional on the input of labour from outside the union. however, in the meantime, in the context of the economic crisis, the unemployment rate is rising significantly, with many of the people affected by job losses being cross-border workers from the new member states. it is therefore essential to link migration and employment policies, for a fair and efficient position, with respect for the principle of community preference. i think it is unfair to give immigrants the right to mobility within the eu, while romanians and bulgarians do not enjoy full freedom of movement on the european labour market. it is immoral and dangerous to encourage the brain drain from developing countries without considering the risk of a boomerang effect and without worrying about the discrimination that leaves most immigrants with jobs below their skill level, especially women - victims of negative stereotypes and practices in their home countries and those existing in eu countries.
in writing. in a context where europe is the main destination for immigrants, harmonising the legislative framework on immigration must be one of the union's priorities. if we europeans do not take action now to advance a common immigration policy, we will later have to bear the consequences of not having done so in time. i have in mind the image of thousands of illegal immigrants losing their lives at sea and i believe it is our duty to prevent the loss of human life. in this respect, it is imperative that we engage in active cooperation with the countries of origin of illegal immigrants. i believe that the common european immigration policy must prove to be a policy of solidarity with the member states which are at the union's borders and which are enduring large flows of immigrants. they argue that the fight against illegal immigration can only be done by promoting controlled legal immigration, and that each individual member state must make firm commitments to creating favourable conditions for legal immigration. i welcome this report, which has proved to be quite ambitious and i hope it will pass with flying colors in the plenary.
in writing. we appreciate that some progress has been made in terms of balanced representation in the administrator and assistant positions at committee secretariat level. we hope that similar measures will be taken with regard to the leadership positions within the political groups and, above all, at the level of political functions in parliament. we cannot help but note that these changes are only a minor aspect of what gender mainstreaming entails. applying the principle of 'gender mainstreaming' would mean that each legislative act would be accompanied by a gender impact study; equally, gender sensitivity and a minimum of expertise would be required in each committee. the reality is that during the 2004-2009 legislature, no legislative act proposed by the commission was rejected because of the lack of such an impact study, despite the fact that its presence would be mandatory under the treaty of amsterdam. unfortunately, we have to admit that the positive results are minor and the goal of gender equality is still far off.
in writing. today, more and more women are participating in politics and decision-making in companies. in 2006, 32.6% of managers in the eu were women. the number of women in the european parliament has increased from 16.3% in 1979, when the first european elections were held. to 31% in 2009. however, there is a need to adopt and implement a strategy with concrete objectives for an integrated approach to gender equality in the context of community policies falling within the remit of parliamentary committees and delegations. supports the need to have adequate tools in parliamentary committees and delegations to promote the integrated approach to equality: indicators, data and statistics classified by gender, as well as the allocation of budgetary resources in terms of gender equality; all these instruments should encourage the constant exchange of good practices in order to implement the integrated strategy aimed at reconciling family and professional life and facilitating the career development of women civil servants. as a social democrat, i think it is a very good initiative to pass on to national parliaments the positive model offered by the ep in terms of gender equality (in the romanian parliament 11% are women).
the reporter. − i believe we are at a point where we need to do as much as possible to keep european companies alive and, above all, to find the incentives to make them successful businesses, capable of providing as many jobs as possible. such an initiative is all the more important now, in the time of crisis we are going through. i welcome the commission's proposal for a directive to simplify the reporting procedures for mergers and divisions, because its objective is to reduce the administrative costs of european companies by 25% by 2012, precisely in order to strengthen their competitiveness. the report i have drawn up and which we will be voting on tomorrow is along the lines of the commission's thinking and is particularly concerned with a number of issues: firstly, reducing the reporting obligations in the case of mergers and divisions, so as to give member states and companies more flexibility in deciding what reports they really need in each individual situation. it also seeks to remove the provisions that currently lead to double reporting, thus causing unnecessary costs. thirdly, it is about adapting the rules on publication and information to the new realities of using the internet, to make full use of these new means of communication, but also to convey a message about protecting the environment. let us not forget that the measures for informing shareholders in the directives in force today were designed 30 years ago and have not been adapted to the current technological possibilities. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very much for the close collaboration we had and for their support throughout this reporting process and i would also like to thank the representatives of the council and the commission for their availability and openness over these last months. on 7 april, coreper reached agreement on the entire compromise package negotiated with parliament for the adoption of a merger and division directive at first reading and we want this to happen, which is why several amendments have been tabled for tomorrow's vote in plenary, taking over the compromise we reached during the informal trialogue. issues that were of major concern to some member states, such as publication in local newspapers or hard copies, use of the internet, were resolved and the representatives of the political groups agreed to these amendments. as regards publication of information in local newspapers, it will continue to be possible in those member states which consider it necessary. as regards paper copies, the rule is that they will no longer be necessary if shareholders are able to download and list the documents, but member states may provide that companies make these documents available at their offices for consultation. another important compromise is the date for implementation of the directive, which will be 30 june 2011, as proposed by the commission. member states will also be able to decide on the consequences of temporary disruption of internet access due to technical problems. a substantial change concerns mergers and simplified divisions, when assemblies will no longer be needed for their approval. these simplified procedures alone are estimated to save around eur 154 million each year, so it is worth adopting this directive at first reading.
madam president, i am glad that, in the end, common sense has prevailed in parliament and the commission concerning the causes of this financial crisis. people have realised that this crisis is not of a cyclical nature and that a thorough overhaul of the regulation and supervision of financial markets is badly needed. the de larosière group report and the turner report, too, have made this quite clear. these reports are in analytical tune with the lamfalussy follow-up report of parliament. the documents which are being debated today are to be seen in the same logic of action. unfortunately, our economies will still suffer for quite a while, not least because of the public budgets and, probably, future inflationary facts of the efforts which are being undertaken to clean up the huge mess. let us hope that we will learn more this time than we have from previous episodes of crisis.
member of the commission. − madam president, i express my appreciation and admiration for the efficient handling of these three files by parliament and the three rapporteurs in particular. this has resulted in a quick consensus, which will definitely improve the functioning of our financial markets. the eu regulation on credit-rating agencies will improve integrity, transparency, responsibility and good governance in the credit-rating activities. mr purvis asked a couple of questions in this particular regard, concerning the freedom to invest in particular products. now, investment is free to all products, whether from the european union or not. ratings are not mandatory, so eu firms are not obliged to invest in rated products. but let me stress that, for regulatory purposes – that is, calculation of capital requirements – the ratings that can be used are those either issued in the eu for both eu and third-country products, or endorsed or recognised as equivalent in the european union. although i am disappointed with certain aspects of the agreement on solvency ii, as i outlined earlier, the eu will have a framework for the insurance industry which could serve as a model for similar reforms internationally. of course, this is not the end of the story. much work remains to be done: implementing measures will need to be in place some time before october 2012 in order to give member states and the industry some time to prepare for the introduction of solvency ii. i can assure you that the commission will play its role in order to facilitate this process and put these long, overdue reforms into practice as soon as possible in the interests of all the parties involved. even though i referred to this in my earlier introductory remarks, i would just like to stress again that group supervision remains in the proposed solvency ii, although group support is out – i think it is just important not to get two concepts mixed up entirely. finally, with the simplified reporting and documentation requirements in the cases of mergers and divisions of public limited liability companies, the agenda on the administrative burden reduction is advancing, and this will contribute to the potential for growth and help europe on the way to economic recovery.
rapporteur. − madam president, it was quite interesting listening to all the speeches this morning in parliament at a time not only when we are living through the toughest financial and economic crisis, but also when the european elections are approaching. the reports which we have discussed today, and will vote on tomorrow, are not meant to solve the financial crisis, but we hope they will help us avoid making the same mistakes in future, or at least major mistakes, and hopefully they will support a relaunch of the european economy. when one hears that small enterprises today have to spend 10 times more than big companies in order to comply with eu legislation on reporting requirements, it is normal to wonder why this is so and how we have come to have rules which through their effects may actually kill these small enterprises and why it has taken us so long to change this. i am glad that commissioner mccreevy mentioned that company law is probably the toughest in the eu acquis communautaire. maybe it is time to change it, certainly not to make it softer, but perhaps to bring it more in line with the current realities we are living through. if we want to be more efficient, it is better to put our energy into being constructive, and i think it is fair to say that what happened with the package we discussed today is proof of this. it is proof that we have acted responsibly and we have reached a compromise with the council and the commission in order to adopt this package at first reading. can we do more? certainly, but let us vote on this and work in the right direction.
in writing. i do not want to discuss the importance of rating agencies here: everyone knows that they are vital for the rationale of an investment decision, whether it concerns financial products or issuers (and are therefore more than just opinions). but i would like to stress the importance of establishing a european agency. in a time of deep economic crisis, such as the one we are currently experiencing, the rating agencies should remain, regardless of economic conditions, transparent and trustworthy instruments that can help navigate these troubled times. we cannot hide the fact that the current crisis is also due to the rating agencies, because they have analysed classic instruments with other hybrids, against the backdrop of accusations of lack of transparency and conflict of interest. we need new presences in this field, leading to a competition in achieving objective ratings. we need to think about investor protection, about investor confidence in the ratings agencies. the union must be a guarantor of the fact that credit rating agencies operate on the basis of clear regulation. what better way to fulfil these conditions than to set up a european credit rating agency, which operates in accordance with community regulations.
in writing. i would like to express my appreciation and support for the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the previous directives on reporting obligations and the preparation of documentation in the event of mergers and divisions. i particularly appreciate the concrete measures proposed to reduce the administrative burden that unnecessarily hampers economic activities in the european business environment. i support the objective of this initiative to contribute to the competitiveness of eu companies by reducing the administrative burden imposed by european company law directives where this can be done without a major negative impact on other stakeholders. i am a supporter of the effective implementation of the action programme approved by the spring european council in march 2007, which aims to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. i believe that european companies and citizens are in great need of a reduction in the bureaucratic procedures imposed by the community acquis and by certain national laws!
i would like to thank the european commission, the council and the european parliament for the speed with which they have brought this measure to life. this supplement to the intervention fund for balance of payments needs will benefit several non-euro area member states, including romania. without this measure, the situation generated by the economic and financial crisis would have been much worse in these non-euro area member states. and because it has been shown once again that the member states that have the euro have coped better with the financial crisis, i would suggest that in the memoranda of understanding to be concluded between the commission and the member states for the use of these amounts it should be recalled that the member states, especially the new ones, have the obligation to take all measures to enter the euro area.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rutowicz, for his work and efforts in processing this proposal. the commission welcomes compromise amendment 39 and is looking forward to the rapid adoption of the proposal along those lines. the commission would like to make the following statement: ‘to support the essential requirements included in section 2.4 of annex i, the commission will mandate cen to develop harmonised standards for each category of machinery for pesticide application, based on the best available techniques for preventing unintended exposure of the environment to pesticides. in particular the mandate will require the standards to provide criteria and technical specifications for the fitting of mechanical shielding, tunnel spraying and air-assistance systems for spraying for preventing contamination of the water source during filling and emptying and precise specifications for the manufacturer’s instructions to prevent drift of pesticides, taking account of all the relevant parameters, such as nozzle pressure, boom height, wind speed, air temperature and humidity, and driving speed.’
mr president, this is a minor modification requested by the council in order to remove an inconsistency about the exchange rates applicable for sms caps and the cut-off limit. therefore, as agreed with the council, the following text should be added at the end of article 1(4) of the original regulation, which is article 1, point 2(b), of the amending regulation: ‘the same reference exchange rates shall be applied to annually revise the value of the charges governed by articles 4a, 4b and 6a(3) where these charges are denominated in currencies other than the euro.’
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation as the accession to regulation no 61 of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform provisions for the approval of commercial vehicles with regard to their external projections located in the front of the rear panel of the cabin, the revised agreement, constitutes the objective of the common commercial policy in accordance with article 113 of the treaty to eliminate technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties. the involvement of the community adds weight to the harmonisation activities carried out under the agreement and therefore allows easier access to third country markets. this involvement must lead to the establishment of a correspondence between the instruments known as 'regulations' adopted under the revised agreement and community legislation in the field, and the adoption of such a regulation constitutes in fact an adaptation to technical progress.
in writing. − it is recognised that the use of pesticides poses a threat to both human health and the environment. the 'thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides' aims to reduce the risks to human health and the environment from the use of pesticides. harmonisation of environmental protection requirements and conformity assessment procedures for technical equipment for pesticide application is a necessary condition for achieving the same level of environmental protection throughout the eu, for ensuring fair competition between producers and for facilitating the free movement of such products within the community. the correct design and construction of these equipment plays a significant role in reducing the negative impact of pesticides on human health and the environment. assuming that the average life of a pesticide sprayer is 12 to 15 years, it is estimated that approximately 125 000 to 250 000 new sprayers are purchased in the community each year. due to their higher efficiency, sprayers complying with the new environmental requirements consume less pesticide and reduce losses during mixing, loading, spraying and cleaning operations, resulting in savings for users that will offset any increase in the price of certain spraying equipment. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the new regulation introduces preventive mechanisms and price transparency for data roaming services, so that citizens/customers can better understand how to charge, control their spending and avoid the so-called 'bill shock'. the setting of caps for voice and sms roaming services and the adoption of transparency measures, as well as the preventive mechanism introduced for wholesale data charges, maintain the freedom of operators to compete in the market and to differentiate their offers within the limits of the imposed caps. this ensures that small new businesses can cope with the excessive wholesale charges of the large operators. current billing practices for voice roaming calls charged on the basis of 60-second units represent a hidden cost for consumers, which adds to a typical euro-voice roaming bill approximately 24% for calls made and 19% for calls received. the regulation should provide a sufficient level of consumer protection, allow consumers to make appropriate use of data roaming services and should not impose burdens on telecommunications operators.
in writing. − i would like to thank mr caspary for all the work he has done in the committee on international trade on this particular legislation aimed at improving eu’s relationship with turkmenistan. the eu’s trade and commercial agreements with this country, unchanged for 20 years already, needed to be updated especially at such times of worldwide great financial exposure. not only will there be commercial and economic benefits out of this new interim agreement with turkmenistan, but we expect to see an improvement of the regional security on all aspects: from a better promotion of human rights and democracy to better results in the fight against drug and human trafficking and to a sustained participation of turkmenistan in the reconstruction of afghanistan by offering support to the activities of eu member states in this country. not least important, better relations with turkmenistan will be a step further into strengthening energy security for europe. i joined my colleagues in supporting the legislation proposed by mr caspary. we will further on have to take all measures to ensure that this country will play their part in this joint effort in order to facilitate its success.
in writing. − the development and expansion of the trans-european transport network is a necessity for strengthening the internal market and for the cohesion of the european union. that is why i voted for the c option proposed by the rapporteur, eva lichtenberger. this approach will allow in the future to use all types of financial resources available for transport and infrastructure, although it does not necessarily provide the means to ensure effective implementation, given the multiple and divergent national interests. any other alternative, including the one proposed by the alternative motion of the epp-de, could have made it impossible for cohesion policy states to use the cohesion funds for transport infrastructure projects other than the ten-t priority projects and, implicitly, could have deprived romania of the possibility of using the cohesion funds for the transport sector, funds which romania badly needs.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i would prefer to use five minutes at the beginning and leave one minute for the conclusion. the draft regulation lays down the conditions, place of business, reputation, financial capacity and professional competence which a person must fulfil in order to be able to exercise the occupation of road transport operator. the regulation under discussion also laid down the conditions under which an undertaking may employ a transport manager, strengthened authorisation and monitoring procedures, regulated electronic registers and the protection of electronic data, addressed the issue of penalties for non-compliance with the regulation and established a system of mutual recognition of diplomas and prior rights. in a first reading, which ended with a plenary vote in may last year, parliament insisted that the transport manager must have a real contractual link with the company and imposed an upper limit on the number of vehicles that can be managed by a single manager. amendments were also made to strengthen the requirements for the permanent establishment of the company. a good reputation can be lost by involvement in human trafficking or drug trafficking. parliament has drawn up a list of serious offences leading to exclusion from the profession, along with the removal of the provisions on minor offences. the insurance was readmitted as proof of financial capacity and the immediate liquidity ratio between assets and liabilities was eliminated. the written examination, which is compulsory in the country of residence, was retained as a requirement for access to employment, with the possibility of exemption in the case of 10 years' continuous practical experience. finally, the earlier rights were removed and the commission was asked to report on the likely impact of the extension of the regulation to the commercial carriage of vehicles designed and equipped for the carriage of up to 9 persons including the driver. the common position adopted in whole or in part 70 of parliament's 113 amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, by rail and by road, and to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. regarding registers, both parliament and the council have agreed on a phased approach. the commission is thus due to define the data structure for the national electronic registers by the end of 2009, but the two institutions have proposed different timetables for implementation, with the council requesting a longer timeframe. there were other issues on which the council's position initially differed from that of parliament, but after long and fruitful negotiations a compromise was reached that was acceptable to both institutions. thus, parliament accepted a more relaxed timetable for the implementation and interconnection of the national electronic registers (31 december 2012), it was agreed that major offences would only be introduced into the national electronic registers after 2015, that the limitation of the validity of the authorisation to access the occupation of road haulage operator would be removed, that the examination would be held in the member state of residence, that the structure of the electronic registers would contain a public and a confidential section, that references to the limitation of licences for access to the road haulage market would be removed from the content of the regulation, all references to licences for access to the road haulage market being in mr grosch's two regulations only. i look forward to your comments, thank you.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking mr grosch, the shadow rapporteur, with whom i have also worked, the technical staff of the tran committee and the european socialist group, my colleagues, also the commission and the commission staff, the commissioner, but also the presidency of the council of the european union with whom i have had a very good working relationship. i would like to recall that in june 2007 the european commission proposed to amend the regulation on access to the occupation of road haulage operator. the amendments were based on the experience gained from the application of european commission directive 96/26 and led to the recasting of certain legislative provisions for more uniform application, using a legal act in the form of a regulation. after almost two years, we are now voting on this document, which directly affects some 800 000 european businesses and some 4.5 million jobs. our common objectives are: improving road safety, reducing red tape, simplifying procedures, predictability and certainty for road hauliers. i hope that this compromise we have reached will develop the road transport market. once again, thank you to all of your colleagues for your cooperation.
maritime transport is governed by a number of international conventions, which are binding, but it is essential to establish a set of minimum rules at community level in these sensitive areas, especially as regards the enforcement of the law. for this reason, the introduction of an independent complaint mechanism and the establishment of a supervisory authority is a net gain for passengers in relation to carriers. i believe that a balance must be struck between the rights of passengers and the obligations of carriers, so that neither of them becomes a brake on the sustainable development of the maritime and inland waterway transport sector. account must also be taken of the specific conditions under which transport takes place in the various maritime areas of europe, which have specific characteristics which in fact make it difficult to establish common rules. in the wider context of maritime safety and security, i must mention the recent incidents of piracy in the gulf of aden, whose recurrence is worrying, with victims in recent weeks including european citizens, including five romanians. i take this opportunity to call on the commission and the council to make every effort to ensure that the union strengthens its cooperation with the other states present in the horn of africa in order to prevent acts of piracy and to ensure the security of transit in the area.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my reply i can reiterate my commitment to present the action plan by 2009. i am aware of the importance of speedy action for the majority of members, but - as mr el khadraoui has pointed out - there is legal resistance in several european institutions, not just in the commission, and we must overcome it by convincing those who are perplexed that such an action plan, i repeat, does not violate the principle of subsidiarity. i repeat, having studied latin for many years, i know the meaning of the word well, so it has a positive meaning, i repeat, to help. we want to continue along the road we have started, even after the debate that took place today and after reading the text presented by mr savary. i have no hesitation in saying that, but to achieve this we must convince more partners, and that is why i believe that it is right to do so with strong arguments from the political, technical and legal point of view. the text drawn up by parliament is certainly an important contribution to overcoming the obstacles which i am convinced will be overcome in the coming months and to giving the european citizens a plan of action from the commission which will certainly take into account and give high consideration to the work you have done in these weeks and months of commitment. that is why i want to thank you, reaffirming my commitment and my will to continue along the lines set by my predecessor, which was also chosen by the european parliament, but i want to make sure that the choice is shared by as many people as possible so that the plan is more effective. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on it. i think, however, that after this debate, after the choice of parliament, some important steps have been taken and hence the requests from the majority of members, because during the debate there were also different nuances with regard to the action plan, but i repeat, i believe that these requests can be successfully concluded in the coming months.
in writing. the quality of life of european citizens directly depends on the facilitation and greening of urban transport. for this reason, accessibility of transport and interoperability are essential and investments in these categories of public works are an efficient way to invest the amounts provided for in the european and national economic recovery plans. this is a citizen-centred approach, in its dual role of being a worker - by creating new jobs - and a beneficiary of transport services and environmental improvements. however, the many european initiatives and recommendations on improving urban mobility require an integrated approach. respect for the principle of subsidiarity does not preclude the need to establish a coherent legal framework and to develop a common reference framework, which includes, in addition to integrated recommendations, a comprehensive set of good practices. in this way, local authorities, who are directly responsible in this area, will have both the opportunity and the interest to strengthen their collaboration with all actors interested in the sustainable development of transport at local and regional level. i, for my part, call on the european commission to speed up the preparation of the urban mobility action plan, with a view to accelerating the coherent integration of this sector into the wider european transport network.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs jensen, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent work they have done and for the way they have taken the commission's proposals. i can only welcome the choices made and also take note of the amendments suggested to amend the draft directive, and i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has confirmed the importance of the egnos galileo satellite positioning systems for the application of its. but i would like to ask parliament a few questions and try to answer them, because the commission has proposed a directive to promote the spread of intelligent transport systems and the second question is whether local and national initiatives in this area are not sufficient. since 1988, the commission has been financing specific research and development programmes on intelligent transport systems, which have produced undeniably positive results and provided the basis for numerous recommendations. these research and development projects have provided an important basis for technological progress and coordination of commitments and facilitated the dissemination of preliminary work, generally in a fragmented manner. it is therefore time to move from recommendations to concrete actions to reap the benefits of the implementation of intelligent transport systems: the benefits can be in terms of road safety, reducing congestion and improving the environmental impact of the road system. this is the aim of this draft directive, which is essential to promote actions to remove the barriers to a wider and better coordinated deployment of intelligent transport systems. i would like to give some examples that help explain why voluntary or local strategies are not always sufficient: today a carrier travelling between barcelona and frankfurt is equipped not only with a mobile phone and a navigation system on board the vehicle, but also with at least three different tele-loading terminals for the countries it has to cross or to avoid transit in residential areas. in 2001 the commission recommended that member states publish detailed information on the categories of roads in the network and on the restricted traffic areas, but unfortunately we have had to note that only a few national local authorities have followed this recommendation. and finally, drivers with a navigation system use the entire road network, too often heavy vehicles are directed to completely unsuitable roads or dangerous routes, for example near schools or on roads with steep inclines. the new directive will make it possible to take the necessary measures to avoid these situations and thus reduce all the problems we have encountered. the commission is awaiting agreement between parliament and the council on the draft directive, which is an essential instrument for implementing the action plan. we will work closely with you and the council to reach an agreement as soon as possible and i believe that the informal council meeting next week in the czech republic in litoměřice, which has put the issue of intelligent transport on the agenda, will be decisive in this regard. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs jensen on the quality of her work and on the two reports she has produced. intelligent transport systems are advanced applications that aim to provide innovative services in transport modes and traffic management and enable different users to be better informed and to use transport networks in a safer, more coordinated and smarter way. i think it is important, however, that intelligent transport systems should cover all modes of transport and not just urban transport, and that is why i have tabled amendments to that effect. urban transport, urban mobility are also very much linked to urban development and i am glad that my colleague from the committee on regional development is in the room. i think it is important that the use of intelligent transport systems can effectively contribute to reducing fuel consumption and, by implication, to better air quality in cities and also to traffic flow. i think it is important to inform passengers, to protect personal data and, of course, to make data anonymous, in order to protect users. last but not least, i think it is a step forward, but there is a need for significant investment in this sector.
in writing. i thank the rapporteurs of the various committees for the excellent work they have done. this report is an important step forward for better patient mobility across the eu. in a europe where freedom of movement is a fundamental element, ensuring patient mobility is something normal and absolutely necessary to provide healthcare at the highest standards to those who need such services. this could also lead to the improvement of national health systems in the long term due to a certain degree of competition between them. however, despite the substantial improvements, there are a few problems that are not resolved by this proposal. i think that there needs to be a little more clarity on the conditions of reimbursement and the rules underlying the system of prior authorisation when this is necessary. i also regret that the mobility of medical staff was left out of this proposal, as the mobility of patients and medical staff are closely linked. to respond effectively to patients' needs, we also need rules that allow for the mobility of healthcare professionals while maintaining a balance within national healthcare systems so that no country is left without enough healthcare professionals.
in writing. the new opportunities for european patients are an important step in coordinating european healthcare systems and ensuring quality healthcare for all european citizens. the proposal for a directive lays down common principles for all health systems, the establishment of european reference networks, patient information points in all member states and e-health. this report brings significant benefits to all member states, and therefore also to romania. the directive is more responsive to the needs of patients who can receive healthcare in another member state if it cannot be provided in a hospital in their home country or if it is delayed. the costs shall be borne by the state of origin. another important aspect concerns the exchange of good practice and the mobility of specialised medical staff, and the free access of citizens to information on cross-border care. member states should ensure that citizens are aware of the necessary procedures and eligibility criteria, as well as the travel costs and medical standards in the treatment centre abroad. that's why i support the establishment of these information centres, so that citizens can choose the way and the place where they are treated.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare seeks to build a coherent community framework to provide certainty to patients in this area, where the general lines have been drawn up by the european court of justice. although the court's principles are fully applicable, certain areas of uncertainty are now clarified by the report referred to above. in the process of transposing into community law the decisions of the european court of justice on the right of patients to receive healthcare in another member state, the proposal for a directive maintains the necessary balance with regard to the competences of the member states in this field. the provisions of the directive also aim to facilitate access to healthcare services, citing the need to set up a system of direct reimbursement by the sponsor in the home country to the host hospital. another point of interest in the report concerns the mutual recognition of medical prescriptions. the text only provides guidance on whether a pharmacy in the home country can honour a prescription from a doctor in another country, with member states deciding which medicines will be available on prescription.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would just like to say that, on the voting list for article 7, amendment 57, only if the first part is adopted will amendments 106 and 117 fall. concerning article 9, amendment 102, if all of them are adopted, amendment 60 will fall. otherwise we have to vote on the corresponding part of amendment 60.
rapporteur. − mr president, we have to vote on amendments 109 and 124 too – the corresponding part.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs ticău's report because i believe that improving the energy performance of buildings is essential for protecting the environment, but also for reducing the energy losses suffered by citizens. at the same time, european citizens do not have to bear all the costs of energy upgrading of buildings themselves. the eu and the member states must provide the necessary financial means to this end, such as: the creation by 2014 of an energy efficiency fund, funded from the community budget, the european investment bank (eib) and the member states, to promote public and private investment in projects to improve the energy efficiency of buildings; reductions in value added tax (vat) on goods and services related to energy efficiency and renewable energy; the extension of eligibility criteria for financing from the european regional development fund (erdf) the energy modernisation of buildings, not just housing; direct public expenditure; grants and loan guarantees; social aid.
in writing. - together with the romanian delegation to the epp-de, i voted against the jean-pierre audy report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007, as amendment no 13 was not accepted. the 2007 eca report still focuses exclusively on projects from 2000 to 2006, as 2007 was mostly a preparatory phase for the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes. therefore, the effect of the new rules foreseen for the 2007-2013 programming period, which are simpler and stricter than those in force until 2006, cannot be assessed at this stage. i stress the need to simplify the procedures for implementing the structural funds, in particular the management and control systems. the complexity of the system is one of the causes of irregularities by member states. strengthen the need for the simplification measures proposed by the commission in the revision of the regulations applicable to the structural funds for the period 2007-2013 in response to the current financial crisis. such simplification procedures are essential to reduce administrative burdens at national, regional and local level. it is important to ensure that such simplification procedures contribute to reducing the error rate in the future.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2007 which calls for the adoption of a new budget for the financial year 2007 and calls for the adoption of a new budget for the financial year 2007 which will be based on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2007 and will be based on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2007 (see also the report of the european parliament and the council of 21 may 2007 on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2007). the discharge report, which refers to irregularities in access to phare funds prior to 2007, maintained the provision for a special report on the management of community funds in romania and the measures taken to combat corruption. the pd-l group in the european parliament therefore voted against. this special report is not justified as long as the cooperation and verification mechanism, approved by the european council in december 2006, already exists. the preparation of an additional report undermines the credibility of the cooperation and verification mechanism already in place. the european commission's reaction, through its spokesman mark gray, confirms the futility of such a move as long as there are proven mechanisms to detect possible irregularities in the management of community funds.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, mr commissioner, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the council, like parliament, is following with great concern the developments in the republic of moldova following the parliamentary elections on 5 april. a major political crisis has occurred in our immediate neighbourhood, posing a serious challenge to eu policy towards moldova and the region in general. this is particularly worrying as the eu is currently preparing to launch the eastern partnership. it is in the interest of all of us to ensure that the situation in moldova does not have a negative impact on the implementation of the eastern partnership. we must clearly distinguish between the statements of president voronin and the actions of political representatives on the one hand and the interests of the citizens of moldova and the eu on the other. immediately after the outbreak of violent protests in chisinau on 7 april, the eu sent its special representative, mr kalman mizsei, to moldova. since then, mr mizsei has been actively trying to initiate political negotiations between the various moldovan parties. the parties that win seats in the new parliament must agree on a realistic solution that respects democratic principles. the eusr shall maintain frequent contacts with the presidency and with the hr throughout the crisis. as you may know, yesterday mr mirek topolánek, the czech prime minister, also visited chisinau. he strongly urged the authorities and the opposition to engage in political dialogue. he met with president voronin, prime minister of greece and opposition leaders. the main message conveyed by the presidency was fully in line with the long-term work of kalman miszei. the civil law dimension of moldovan society needs to be strengthened, the government needs to allow for the proper functioning of civil society, guarantee freedom of expression and other basic human rights. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu's 'special needs' programme, which is a key element of the eu's 'special needs' strategy. on the other hand, the opposition must cooperate constructively with the ruling party and respect the outcome of the elections. as president of the european council, prime minister topolánek stressed to all the representatives that it was essential to keep the european perspective in mind. moldova must not retreat from the path of democratization. in this context, moldova should strengthen its involvement in the eastern partnership project. i would like to remind you that the official result of the elections announced on 8 april was the victory of the communist party of moldova, which won almost 50% of the votes. the remaining votes were won by the three opposition parties. on that basis, the communists would win 60 of the 101 seats in the new parliament. a preliminary assessment issued by the international election observation mission marked the elections as valid, although it highlighted several problems that occurred during the campaign. however, the opposition and a number of ngos have claimed that the elections were rigged. last week, the central election commission counted the votes and concluded that the ruling communist party won 60 of the 101 seats in parliament, confirming the results of the first count. according to the opposition, the main problem was not the counting of votes but the voter lists, which allegedly contained several hundred thousand "dead souls", or non-existent persons. the opposition is checking voter lists to establish these reports as evidence. according to a committee spokesman, no signs of fraud were found during the recount. the opposition also pointed to the extensive use of administrative resources by the ruling party during the election campaign. the international election observation missions have also criticised the moldovan authorities in this regard. the eu had brought this type of problem to the attention of the moldovan authorities on several occasions before the elections. in particular, the lack of media freedom and the persecution of the opposition by the repressive authorities were pointed out. the pressure on independent media has increased significantly in the wake of the protests. there are arrests and persecutions of journalists. some foreign journalists have been expelled or prevented from entering the country. there is another very serious reason for concern. during the crisis, the moldovan authorities committed serious human rights violations. according to reports, approximately 250 people were arrested after the violent protests on april 7. many of them, mostly young people, have been beaten by the police, subjected to inhuman treatment and torture, denied access to legal aid and denied the right to inform their families. three young protesters died. we have made it very clear to the moldovan authorities that such violations of human rights and media freedom are unacceptable to the eu. the violence in chisinau does not justify the harsh measures taken by the authorities. moldova has adopted european standards and values, including through the eu-moldova action plan. the eu urged the moldovan authorities to uphold the principles of human rights and fundamental freedoms. on april 15, moldovan president vladimir voronin took a step in the right direction by declaring an amnesty for those arrested during the protests, except for those with a previous criminal record. he also called for a transparent and correct investigation of the events in question. those investigations shall be carried out in cooperation with the relevant european and international institutions. the human rights situation is closely monitored on the ground by the eu, the council of europe, the osce and the un. it is important that these activities are coordinated. the investigation in moldova needs international involvement in order to be considered reliable and fair. only a transparent process can help overcome the marked contradictions and mistrust that have prevailed in moldovan society over the past few weeks. this crisis must be resolved politically. moldova is facing very serious economic problems arising from the global financial crisis. continued political strife would make it impossible for the country to solve these economic problems. a functioning government is urgently needed. external assistance will also be needed, including strong involvement of the international monetary fund. at this stage, it is very important to look beyond the immediate consequences of the crisis and consider what our policy towards moldova will be in the longer term. the crisis has clearly demonstrated the need for consistent and ambitious measures to strengthen democratic norms and institutions in moldova. enhanced eu assistance will be needed to support institution building, including judicial and police reform, and to ensure freedom and pluralism of the media. the agreement of the moldovan political parties on how to overcome the current crisis should include a commitment to thorough reforms in the above areas. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that for many years moldova has been one of the most advanced countries in the eastern european neighbourhood in terms of its commitment to democratic standards and its willingness to move closer to the eu. it is in our interest to help moldova to overcome the current crisis and to continue along the above-mentioned path. the eastern partnership will provide a new and ambitious framework for strengthening eu assistance for political and economic reform in moldova and other countries in the region. it is in the interest of all of us to ensure that democracy in moldova is strengthened and that moldova continues to move closer to the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, referring to mr watson’s announcement, let me first warmly welcome our guests from moldova. the situation in the republic of moldova is indeed of great concern. we are following developments closely and seeking ways to promote dialogue and reconciliation between political forces in the country. as regards the conduct of the recent elections, my colleague benita ferrero-waldner welcomed the preliminary assessment by the osce-led international election observation mission. the mission concluded that the elections had taken place in a pluralistic environment, that a distinct political choice had been on offer for the voters and that a number of international standards for democratic elections had been met. however, significant shortcomings were identified which are of serious concern and had already been voiced by the commission well before the elections. these are undue administrative interference, insufficient respect for the freedom of expression and access of all parties to media, and an overall lack of public confidence in the democratic and electoral process. these shortcomings need to be addressed as a matter of urgency, all the more so since the events of 7 april. much more worrying are the reports of widespread human rights violations in the wake of the demonstrations after the election day. after the turmoil that followed the demonstrations of 7 april, the commission strongly condemned the excessive use of force and called on all those concerned to stop the use of inflammatory rhetoric and violence. we continue to give this matter close attention. respect for human rights remains a key condition for the further development of our relationship with moldova. it is crucial that allegations of serious human rights violations by the security forces are investigated thoroughly and swiftly. where allegations are substantiated, the authorities must act to ensure that those responsible for such abuses are indeed brought to justice. president voronin’s agreement to visit the council of europe commissioner for human rights, thomas hammarberg, as well as cooperation with the eusr on these issues, is welcome. similarly moldovan interest in the possibility of the dispatch of an eu fact-finding mission is positive. while these missions cannot substitute for the responsibility of the state to investigate and prosecute human rights violations, they should help to shed light on the latest elections and their aftermath. they should also go some way towards facilitating political dialogue in order to restore public confidence. today the situation in moldova is very fragile. the country has constantly expressed its desire to deepen its relationship with the european union. the current crisis is a test over moldova’s resolve in this regard. we welcome the fact that romania has refrained from taking reciprocal steps following the reintroduction of visa requirements for romanian citizens and for the declaration of its ambassador as persona non grata. we should encourage all partners to proceed with the greatest caution and always keep in mind the overriding aim of stabilising the country. the current situation is of grave concern, but we should not lose our sense of the wider picture. the key to future stability and prosperity for moldova is in the deepening of its relationship with the european union. on the eve of the launch of the eastern partnership we need to demonstrate that we are indeed ready to assist moldova in overcoming the current difficulties, in particular by defusing tensions, promoting dialogue and strengthening links between us. the republic of moldova is our neighbour. we have been working closely and in a relationship of trust with the citizens of moldova over the last 15 years. we are fully aware of moldova’s european aspirations. it is critical that we stay engaged with the moldovan people today and that together we work not only to overcome the challenges that have arisen in the electoral period but also those which are emerging as a result of the global financial and economic downturn. in other words, we care for moldova and its citizens.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the republic of moldova has international commitments and obligations, whereby it has assumed responsibility for respecting democracy, the rule of law and human rights. but recent events have shown us a serious breach of all these commitments. arbitrary arrests, kidnappings, disappearances, flagrant violations of the rights of those arrested, inhuman and degrading treatment, terrorizing citizens, threatening them with weapons are deplorable acts that endanger the european future of this country. the campaign launched against media representatives and opposition parties, the arrest and expulsion of journalists are serious and regrettable acts. i condemn this campaign of harassment, the serious violations of human rights and the illegal actions taken by the government of the republic of moldova. the european assistance planned for 2007-2010 to support democratic development and good governance in moldova is over eur 50 million. i hope the money wasn't used to train the police to use violence against the population. i ask the commission to submit to the european parliament a report on the use of all european funds in the republic of moldova. romania has and will continue to have a proactive policy to support the integration of the republic of moldova into european structures. this is due not only to the historical ties we have with the citizens of this state, but above all to the firm conviction that the destiny of the republic of moldova is a european one, that of a modern and democratic state, based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the accusations levelled against the romanian state by the moldovan authorities are aberrant, and the measure of introducing visas for romanian citizens is an unjustified and unacceptable action. the leader of a state changes, the citizens remain. i believe it is in the interest of the european union that the republic of moldova fulfils its european path in accordance with the aspirations of its citizens to live in a stable and secure democratic state. in this context, the eastern partnership is an effective instrument and an opportunity for the european aspirations of the citizens of the republic of moldova.
madam president, the violence in the republic of moldova was not a revolution but a mutiny, which took place within a revolutionary atmosphere in a divided society. that violence could also be seen as having been provoked and used as part of a strategy with the aim of redrawing the borders between the european union and eurasia. therefore the problem we have to cope with is a european problem. it is not a mere internal or a single member state problem. however, the solution to that problem must not be retaliation but the multiplication of efforts for engaging moldova on a european way. nor is the solution to encourage the moldovan elites to leave the country as holders of foreign passports. to this end, we must strengthen the mission of the european union envoy for moldova, both in scope and resources, accelerate negotiation with moldova on visa facilitations, and deepen cooperation in the field of enhancing both public order and respect for human rights. we have to work together with the authorities, the opposition and civil society, but also with russia, which has an important presence in the region. we should avoid these events being taken as an excuse for a unilateral solution on transnistria.
what happened in the republic of moldova was predictable for a long time. when i say this, i mean that at least in 2008 the eu-moldova dialogue was about three big issues: a) the free access of the opposition to the public media, systematically denied and institutionalized by the voronin regime; b) the non-modification of the law on parliamentary elections, demanded by the venice commission but brutally rejected by the chisinau regime and its collaborators; c) the involvement of the opposition in major decisions on the country's policy, especially european integration, which was systematically refused. if we forget that these three major themes were either missing or systematically rejected by the chisinau interlocutors, we will find that, in fact, the european union received a brutal rejection from moldova when it came to things that are fundamental for the future of this country. what happened on election day was just the predictable end of a story that is somehow the fault of both the european union and the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the republic of moldova, we have three categories of problems, all of them serious, and from this we can outline three directions of action. first category - human rights - we have hundreds of young people detained, sometimes even tortured; freedom of the press - we have journalists intimidated, kidnapped from the street in broad daylight and then - the way elections are conducted - we have here a huge volume of concrete data on fraud. we will have to decide on this as concretely as we have done. opposition parties claim that the fraud has altered the result by 10 to 15%. the citizens of the republic of moldova are still looking with great hope to our decisions, to our responses. it is their only way out of the dramatic situation, almost unprecedented in europe, through which they have been forced to pass.
now in chisinau, madam president, you have the right to remain silent, you have the right to do as you are told, you have the right to pay taxes to an elite who is not accountable to anyone, to emigrate, to conform and eventually to hate at will. you don't have the right to free speech, to association, to public protest, or even the right to decide your own identity. so, commissioner, these are the premises of the stabilization of the republic of moldova and they are not optimistic premises. moldova, having embarked on this path, can only have the best of luck with belarus. long before the elections, the communist party had secured and solidified absolute control of all media channels. these measures have hollowed out the democratic process and forced a quarter of the country's population to emigrate. against this background, the elections could not take place without any doubt. the repression in chisinau has now become a means of dialogue between the authorities and the population. the union cannot therefore afford to be indulgent and ambivalent towards the regime in chisinau from now on. our silence or these ambivalent statements mean approval and complicity in the contempt for fundamental freedoms and the democratic legal order, in violence and repression. the chisinau crisis demonstrates not least that we need to improve our methods of observing and monitoring the elections and we need to rethink the role of our permanent representative there.
the president-in-office of the council. − madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in moldova remains fragile and the european union must continue its intensive efforts to bring the parties to the negotiating table and find together with them a solution that is comprehensive, balanced, realistic and that contributes to the strengthening of the democratic process and democratic institutions in moldova. i have to agree with mr. graham watson, who said that mr. voronin must adhere to the principles of democracy and condemn the torture and violence perpetrated against protesters. i think everyone also needs to unequivocally condemn the arrests of journalists and the massive violation of freedom of speech. in this regard, it is also important that we fully support the work of the european union special representative in moldova. it is beyond doubt that the european union, and therefore the council, is gravely concerned by the human rights violations that have occurred during the crisis in moldova. we urge the moldovan authorities to engage in a transparent process in full cooperation with the relevant european and international institutions and to investigate and also condemn the human rights violations. that crisis has shown the need for enhanced assistance from the european union for further political and economic reforms in moldova with a view to strengthening moldova's commitment to democratic norms and values, in line with the european union's support for moldova's sovereignty and territorial integrity. the european union stands ready to cooperate and help bring moldova closer to the european union. but the basis is a democratic moldova, a moldova that respects human rights, a moldova where there is freedom of speech and where basic democratic institutions are functioning.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to use my speaking time by responding to some of your questions and comments in this, in my view, very responsible exchange of views today. i shall start with mr watson’s remarks concerning visas and human rights, but first i have to comment on his remarks concerning my colleague, benita ferrero-waldner, who is responsible for our relations with moldova. you said benita is an instinctive optimist. i can defend her and the commission’s position first by saying that, in fact, the commission position is very realistic and balanced. secondly, you have to be a professional optimist to be a european commissioner, at least if you are responsible for eu enlargement and relations for south-eastern europe. concerning the visa question, we are indeed dismayed by moldova’s decision to impose a visa requirement on romanian citizens. this is not acceptable. we are examining the legality of this move. we will pursue the issue on 30 april, on the eve of labour day, 1 may, with the moldovan authorities within the context of the commission-moldova joint management committee, which has been created under the visa facilitation agreement. overall, concerning the elections, their aftermath and human rights violations, the commission strongly condemned the violence that erupted in the streets of chişinău on 7 april and the massive and excessive use of force by the law enforcement agencies’ forces and, reportedly, by private militia in the aftermath. reports of widespread human rights violations with respect to detainees, as well as of abductions, are of serious concern. we see that, realistically, it is of the utmost importance for moldova to live up to its european aspirations, that allegations of human rights violations be investigated thoroughly and impartially with the participation of all political forces and, as appropriate, under international scrutiny. those suspected of having committed criminal acts, including human rights abuses, must be investigated and, if charged with such acts, offered the right to a fair trial. finally, on the likely impact of the election aftermath on eu-moldova relations, it has brought to the fore the unfinished nature of moldova’s internal reforms, particularly with regard to the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms. we expect all concerned parties in moldova, the official authorities as well as the political opposition and civil society, to agree on and progress towards a solution to the current crisis that will bring about more, not less, democracy and freedom for the moldovan people. the history of what has become the european union is concrete proof that dialogue and cooperation and the rule of law can yield a coherent and sustainable mix of respect for fundamental freedoms, political stability and economic prosperity.
in writing. while the communist power in chisinau perpetuates itself through fraud and torture, the prime minister of the eu presidency is content to describe the crisis at the eu's borders as unnerving. neither the witnesses of terror nor the aggressiveness towards a european union state have aroused reactions as did the misinterpretation of a legitimate decision of romania to accelerate the process of regaining romanian citizenship for those who have lost it without their will, in tragic historical conditions, for which the west has its share of responsibility. i cannot help but notice the hypocrisy of those politicians who are now shaking the fear of the million moldovans ready to invade the west, as, until 2007, they were the vehicles of the romanian assault thesis. on the trampling of democracy and fundamental freedoms, we will have the opportunity to exchange views with mr lukasenko and mr voronin after the launch of the eastern partnership. if this cooperation mechanism does not support democratic reforms in the ex-soviet states invited, it will be born dead. i cannot suppress a bitter conclusion: for some europeans, tibet is closer than moldova. that's probably what happens when the road to chisinau passes through moscow.
in writing. the elections of 6 april 2009 in the republic of moldova were followed by demonstrations. unfortunately, the press has had difficulty in reporting on the developments. i believe that freedom of the press, freedom of expression, and respect for human rights and the rule of law are principles that we all respect, promote and defend. i think that the situation in the republic of moldova is very serious and above all i think that the european union must deal with this situation seriously and diplomatically. i believe that the accusations against romania are accusations against the european union, and the declaration of persona non grata of the romanian ambassador in chisinau and the brutal and unilateral introduction by the republic of moldova of visas for romanian citizens are unacceptable. the republic of moldova is a european country by history and geography, one of the neighbours of the union, and the relationship between the union and the republic of moldova must continue to be based on good neighbourly relations. their region borders the republic of moldova and ukraine. we have many joint development projects and i believe that romania and the european union must continue to support the economic and social development of the republic of moldova on the basis of a partnership based on good cooperation, but above all on mutual respect.
in writing. the western balkans region is a special case among the countries bordering the european union. it is a region with multiple challenges and many stages to be passed before the integration process can be completed. it is a region whose accession prospects are clear and unambiguous. both i and my colleagues wanted to ensure that this resolution affirmed this fact both in principle and in the details of the union's interaction with the states in the area. we are concerned, and i have shown this in my amendments, about the visa regime, the process of informing citizens about the eu, economic cooperation with the western balkan states, minority rights, eu study programmes for young people in the region, and strengthening interparliamentary dialogue even before these countries join. we believe that the process of european unification can continue at the level of citizens when it is slowed down at the institutional level and i think that, looking at things through this prism, we allow our concern for the stability of the region to continue to have other means of translating into practice than rhetoric, or historical perspective.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, minister, i would first like to thank my colleague, mrs jeleva, for her good cooperation on this report, and my colleagues and associations of disabled people. i would like to stress that we need clear protection of the disadvantaged, all the more so as we are talking in a context where there are effects of the economic crisis. i would like to stress that the european union promotes the active inclusion of people with disabilities and their full participation in society, and this approach is at the heart of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and therefore we call for the urgent ratification of these international documents by the eu states, and for the active involvement of organisations and people with disabilities in the monitoring and implementation of these documents, and we also call on the member states and the community executive to ensure free access and dissemination... (the president interrupts)
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in reaching the compromise agreement with the council on the recast of the eco-design directive. it has been a challenging process, mainly due to the very restrictive nature of the recast. a legislative proposal where parliament can hardly change anything is not the appropriate framework for codecision. we are no longer an institution limited to giving assent and this is not the way parliament wants to work with the recast in the future. however, i am pleased that despite these challenges we managed to reach a compromise that confirms the basic principles of the commission’s proposal, such as the extension of the scope to energy-related products, but also brings more clarifications and more emphasis on all relevant environmental parameters. thus, the compromise improves the definition of ‘energy-related products’ by clarifying which products could be covered by implementing measures, such as window-insulation materials or some water-using products like showerheads or taps. and i insist on the fact that giving these examples does not mean that these products will be covered automatically. first, they will be subject to specific impact assessment, and implementing measures will be developed only for those products that have significant environmental impact, have significant potential for improvement and are not covered by other legislation that can achieve the same objectives more quickly and with less expense. then, the compromise provides for the assessment of the methodology used for preparing the implementing measures to better cover resource efficiency and the life-cycle approach. in times of narrowing natural resources, we must not only aim at energy efficiency but at optimising the use of resources as a whole. furthermore, we must try to reduce the environmental impact of our products not only during their use phase, but also through their entire life cycle, from raw-material selection to manufacturing, packaging, use and end of life. even if for now the directive is extended only to energy-related products, we should be prepared for a further extension to all products in the future. both the committee on the environment and the committee on industry have demanded a clear commitment to extend the scope of the directive beyond energy-related products after its review in 2012. in response, the commission committed itself to adopting the current methodology, if needed, with a view to a further extension of the scope to all products. but we could not have any firm commitment for an extension of the scope to all products after the review of the directive in 2012. i would have liked the commission to have had a firmer and more visionary approach, especially since we have all the instruments on the table today and this was the best option identified by the impact assessment. in this sense, i believe we missed the opportunity to do more for the environment with less bureaucracy. there is also the review in 2012. we will certainly not contest the fact that we need to change our consumption and production patterns by switching to cleaner products. change is needed, but change is also possible without overburdening companies and households. by building a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy we can give a new impetus to competitiveness. the eco-design directive represents a big opportunity for industry to build more competitive businesses based on green technologies. it creates a level playing field across europe, reducing red tape and production costs. it also provides flexibility for the industry, as self-regulation measures can be recognised as alternatives to regulatory implementing measures. last but not least, relevant stakeholders are consulted and associated in defining and reviewing the implementing measures and assessing self-regulatory measures. from my consultations with stakeholders, i realise that forward-thinking businesses do not wait for regulations in order to become compliant, but take proactive measures. some do it out of altruism but most do it because eco-consciousness is simply good for business. however, we need to give the industry the right signals. even though my vision of extending eco-design requirements to all products is not shared by all my colleagues, i strongly believe that only by shifting to cleaner goods can we stop environmental degradation. more than 80% of all environmental impacts of a product are determined during product design. an improved product design would avoid waste and provide consumers with more efficient, more reliable and longer-lasting products. extending the eco-design requirements to energy-related products such as windows or water taps is the first step towards a more ambitious approach and a sustainable product policy at eu level. sometimes even small steps can lead to big achievements. i hope you will endorse this compromise agreement as a way forward and you will continue keeping up the pressure to optimise the full potential for environmental improvement and stimulate the design of eco-friendlier products.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr csibi, for his excellent work on this proposal and i am very pleased that his work has made it possible to reach an agreement at first reading. the content of the proposal is from a purely legal point of view limited. it essentially extends the scope of the existing ecodesign directive on energy-related products currently covered to all energy-related products. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is an important step towards the third industrial revolution in europe, towards the transformation of our european economies into low-carbon economies. i have a vision of what the european product of the future should look like. the european product of the future, marked by a made in europe, looks like it is the most innovative, the safest and at the same time the most energy-efficient and resource-saving product. i am convinced that european leadership in energy efficiency and resource efficiency is not only good for the environment but also for jobs. environmentally friendly products and processes are booming today, even in the crisis. and that will continue. the directive is a good example of an integrated product policy in my view. it has worked in the past, and we are seeing good results when it comes to products powered by energy. the directive creates a framework for setting ecodesign requirements which take account of the actual environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle. it limits public requirements to those products where significant savings potentials can be realised in an economically viable way. the current directive is already making a major contribution to achieving european reduction targets, for example by phasing out lamps, boilers and many other low-energy consumer goods. the extension of the scope to all energy-related products has significant potential for further reducing energy consumption and thus co2 emissions. to repeat, all products relevant to energy consumption are now covered by the directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of the free movement of goods in the context of the internal market. for example, requirements can now be set for products that use water, or requirements can be set for windows. let me give you an example. increasing the proportion of double-glazed windows alone can bring about 30% additional energy savings by 2020. that would mean a saving of 55,000 gigawatt hours. that's the equivalent of 27 megatons of co2 saved, or the power of two or three nuclear power plants. this shows the enormous impact of such seemingly small changes. the commission will continue its ongoing work on the 25 or so implementing measures for the ecodesign directive listed in its work programme for 2009-2011. it will also, by 21 october 2011, after consulting the ecodesign consultation forum, determine the products to be included in the second work programme, as provided for in article 16 of the directive. by 2012, the commission also intends to examine, in accordance with article 21, whether it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive to include products that are not relevant to energy consumption but to conservation of resources. as agreed in the negotiations leading to the agreement at first reading, the commission is to make a statement. the statement is known to parliament. i shall hand them over to the bureau after this meeting. the rapid adoption of the proposal at first reading will enable the commission to implement the sustainable industrial policy and to start working on further concrete steps to save energy and reduce co2 emissions without losing time. in conclusion, let me say that the close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission has accelerated the negotiations. i am very pleased to say that the commission can accept all the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, mr csibi. thank you. thank you.
vice-president of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen! the controversy in this debate is not about energy efficiency. i think everyone agreed that the commission's proposal will lead to a major step forward in improving energy efficiency, saving energy and thus reducing greenhouse gases. that is the point of this proposal. this is a proposal in the context of our climate and energy policy. i am a little surprised at the very wide-ranging criticism i have just heard. i think i have made it quite clear in what i have said here that the integrated product policy which the commission is pursuing links energy efficiency and conservation of resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that seems to have been overlooked. i would therefore point out that, in the case of implementing measures, the annex 1 directive already covers all environmental characteristics throughout the life cycle of the product - including resource efficiency and not only energy efficiency - and that the commission takes these factors into account when determining the ecodesign parameters to be regulated in the implementing measures, using a methodology specifically developed for the ecodesign of energy-based products. so the question of resource efficiency is central to the actual implementation measures. but let me say this about the politics of this issue in general: i think that this new product policy, which will have a huge impact on consumer behaviour, on all industrial production, on our entire economic structure, cannot be done in one go, but we must do it step by step. it is also wise to wait until we have a minimum of experience to legislate, and we are completely lacking this experience at the moment in the area of resource efficiency in normal consumer products. but we have made it clear where we are going and i am quite sure that the next time we look at this directive, the focus will no longer be on energy efficiency but on conservation of resources. i would be very grateful if, in the present situation, we could do what is reasonably possible today; if we could do together now what really makes a significant, sustainable contribution to reducing energy consumption and thus to achieving our goal of making europe the world leader in energy efficiency and co2 reduction. the commission's statement on the csibi report (a6-0096/2009) is as follows: the commission declares that adoption of the proposed extension of the directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products will not affect the implementation of the work programme currently established. moreover, the commission will take due account of the experience gained under the directive when establishing the work programme and proposing new implementing measures under the recast directive. in line with article 15 (2) (c) of the directive and the principles of better regulation, the commission will in particular strive to ensure that overall consistency in eu legislation on products is maintained. in addition, the commission will, when assessing the appropriateness of extending the scope of the directive to non-energy related products in accordance with article 21, consider the need for adapting the methodology for identifying and addressing significant environmental parameters for such products.
rapporteur. − mr president, compromise is never easy, and today’s debate showed us that we have different opinions, but it is also never easy to find a good middle way between the progressiveness of the european parliament and the realism of the dgs and the council. but i would like to sincerely thank our colleagues from the dgs for their flexibility. i would also like to thank commissioner verheugen for his support and kind words, and the shadow rapporteurs who helped me in this legislative process. from my point of view i think that we have succeeded in finding a good middle way in this proposal and in finding a way of dealing with this package which will not overburden european industry but also will help us attain a more energy-efficient and resource-efficient european industry. but i would also like to echo to some extent what my colleague mr krahmer said, and to express my hope that the implementation of this proposal will be as quick as our legislative work. so i would like to see quick implementation, i would like to see quick results and i would like to see results which first of all serve the interests of european citizens, and then also those of european industry.
in writing. the current financial crisis only reinforces the eu's responsibility to honour its energy and environmental commitments. many measures (e.g. eco-design) are needed to make the way we consume and produce in europe more sustainable, without imposing additional costs on businesses and citizens. eco-design addresses the first stage in the product life cycle. the new concept aims to 'eliminate the environmental impact from the product and the production process'. about 80% of the environmental impact and life-cycle costs of a product can be determined in the design phase. the accumulation and dissemination of knowledge generated in the eco-design effort of manufacturers is one of the key benefits of the reform of the ecodesign directive. informing consumers about energy and resource efficiency should become a key element in their decisions. improving energy efficiency is the fastest and least expensive way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. an accessible database is needed to increase transparency for consumers, industry and competent authorities and to facilitate the rapid collection of data for consumers and smes. i support the commission's call to create a public eco-design database available online.
in writing. as the european union has recognised in the sixth community environment action programme that there is a need for a more substantial reduction in the environmental and health impacts of pesticides, the regulation on statistics on plant protection products fills the gaps in the use of pesticides in the member states. the data provided by the commission on the use and sales of pesticides have shown that there is a need for a harmonised methodology at community level for the collection of statistical data, both at the stage of placing products on the market and from producers. we are all aware of the need to establish a more coherent legislative framework at european union level in the field of pesticide use. i would therefore stress that it is desirable to establish a common framework for the systematic production of community statistics on the placing on the market and use of pesticides in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
of course, we are all concerned that a law is about to be enacted in afghanistan that allows discriminatory and degrading treatment of women in the family and in society. this act is in flagrant contravention of the agenda we are promoting in afghanistan, especially as most nato states have announced their increased participation in the afghan stabilization effort. of course, the military dimension of the international presence in this country is very important, perhaps even decisive, but this is not just about ensuring peace, investing in infrastructure, but about a much more complex project, the modernization of afghan society. who are we building schools for, as long as afghan girls are discriminated against and not allowed to have access to education? of course, no one wants the new afghan society to be a replica of western societies, but we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses and violations in the name of respecting local cultural identities. that is why i believe that the european institutions have a duty to send a strong message to the president... (president interrupts)
author. - one of the problems affecting the justice systems of many countries in the world is not so much the lack of a well-developed legal framework as the lack of implementation of the decisions taken by the judiciary. in countries affected by the scourge of civil wars, permanent conflict or massacres, the consequences are disastrous from the humanitarian and development point of view. in the case of the special court for sierra leone, it is all the more important that the court decisions be implemented, since this court sets a number of important precedents in international law. it is not only the first court of its kind established in the same country where the events were tried, but also the first to indict and convict, in the person of charles taylor, the former president of liberia, an african head of state still in office at the time of the trial's inception. these elements, together with the recent conviction of three former rebel leaders from the civil war era, are strong signals of the will of the international community and the government of sierra leone to fight hard against the sense of impunity that has been evident among those who have committed atrocities for a decade. the international community must complete the proposed project to strengthen the rule of law and justice in sierra leone. the court's mandate is due to expire in 2010, and the government of sierra leone has been explicit about its inability to enforce the sentences. it is therefore essential that the european union and its international partners active in the peace process support and support the implementation of the judgments issued by the special court. not only does progress towards peace and stability in the region depend on this, but also the credibility of the special courts set up with the support of the international community in other countries.
in writing. - i voted for this report because in romania, as in other member states, we are sometimes faced with crises affecting public and animal health safety with regard to products of animal origin. such crises may also have a wider negative impact on the socio-economic situation of farmers and the industrial sectors concerned and a decline in consumer confidence in the safety of products of animal origin. outbreaks can also have negative consequences for the environment: disposal of carcasses and biodiversity. a legislative review of the regulation on animal by-products not intended for human consumption (abs) was needed. this addresses the problems of different interpretation of the scope of the regulation and the related problems: distortion of competition and different levels of protection against risks to public and animal health; classification of soas based more on risk; clarification of derogations (e.g. impact of soas on research, epizootics, natural disasters); reduction of administrative burden by eliminating duplication of authorisations for certain types of economic units. the review maintains the principles by which the use, processing, disposal, traceability and targeting of soas not intended for human consumption are regulated in the eu, ensuring a high level of food safety and consumer protection.
in writing. - our legitimate desire to see a world and a continent free of nuclear weapons must be complemented by evidence of a responsible and mature understanding of the realities that surround us. and it is clear that the greatest threats come from two directions: nuclear weapons in the hands of undemocratic regimes that are accountable to no one, and the irresponsible use of civilian nuclear resources. the npt is the appropriate framework within which we have addressed these concerns and which we can continue to build upon. i voted in favour of this report by mrs beer and i would like to stress that the importance of this document is precisely due to the obvious need to increase the use of nuclear energy for civilian purposes. we are well aware of the problems that come with a lack of energy independence, and we are equally well aware of the contribution of nuclear energy as clean energy to the fight against global warming. today, the only form of clean energy production on a large scale is nuclear, and i hope that we will have the framework to use it safely to meet the needs of developing economies and european citizens.
the economic crisis has severely affected the world economy. all member states are expected to have negative growth rates this year. at european level, unemployment has risen alarmingly, and many businesses are cutting back and laying off staff or sending employees into technical unemployment. european citizens are losing their jobs, they are having difficulty paying off their loans and their quality of life is deteriorating. i believe that in this time of economic and financial crisis, the union must first invest in people. the prosperity of european enterprises is due to the workers and that is why i believe that we have a duty first and foremost to support them. i believe that the employment summit in prague on 7 may must urgently identify concrete solutions to the alarming rise in unemployment. i therefore call for the priority of the june european council to be the preservation of jobs and solutions to reduce unemployment in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would first like to congratulate our colleague, mrs estrela, on her report and on the work she has done. i believe that the improvement of directive 92/85 is a response to a real and serious problem facing europe - and i am referring both to the ageing of the population and to the demographic decline we have been talking about for so long. of course, from our point of view, as the epp group, the family as a fundamental value entitles us to build political action from this perspective and we welcome what is happening with regard to the maternity directive and the health conditions of the mother. i was pleased to hear commissioner špidla here supporting the extension of the duration, as approved in our committee on equal opportunities, and i believe that this has nothing to do with equal access for women to the labour market. we all know that both the world health organization and unicef have scientifically argued that it takes 24 weeks for a mother to fully recover from childbirth. i think we should not make young women choose between their personal life and their career, and what we are discussing today - the amendment to the directive - actually provides the basis for reconciling these two aspects. i welcome the introduction of paternity leave, even if it is not appropriate at the moment, because it sends a signal to young families who expect it from us, the european parliament. i believe that the presence of both parents is crucial for a newborn in the first weeks of his life and i equally believe that motherhood and fatherhood are a fact of life, which is why i agree to treat it as it deserves and not as a problem or possibly an inconvenience. as a romanian mp and as a mother of two children born under the communist regime, which my country unfortunately went through, i confess to you that i have additional reasons to support the proposed measures.
for the eu institutions, there are important topics and less important topics. important issues are discussed in events with maximum participation and visibility or at least solutions are sought and answers are provided. it is with regret that we must say that women's rights were not among them. the responsibility for the secondary place of gender issues is shared between the conservatives in parliament, the commission and the member states, but in no case equally. as the last plenary debate of this term on this subject, we must acknowledge that parliament has certainly been the european institution that has dealt most seriously with the rights and socioeconomic status of women, pregnant women and the selfemployed as well. through legislation and owninitiative reports, we have tried to translate into practice principles already enshrined in the treaties: to bring invisible categories onto the public agenda. true, this has often happened late at night or when we are coming directly from the airport. however, the political will is lacking. this is very evident in the implementation and enforcement of the necessary and long-awaited legislation we are drafting. delays and inadequate enforcement are common in the member states. we call on the european commission and the member states not to ignore, under the pretext of the crisis and other essential issues, the problems related to the application of european legislation in this field, current or old. the sacrifice of women and their rights on the altar of supposed economic interests leads to social regression. i don't know if women are the future of men, but he's sure that on her and her health depends the future of our society.
in writing. as a social democrat and a mother, i support this directive because it addresses: the health and safety of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or those who are breastfeeding; issues of equal treatment such as the right to return to the same or an equivalent job; the right to a career; rules on dismissal and rights relating to the employment contract; or the granting of greater financial support during leave. the duration of maternity leave currently ranges from 14 weeks in some member states to 28 weeks in others and in some cases up to 52 weeks, of which only part is paid. i therefore consider that the option of extending the duration of maternity leave and increasing the remuneration for it is an appropriate way of improving the health and safety of women and of enabling them to reconcile work and family obligations, thus promoting equal opportunities between women and men in the labour market. stressful conditions at work can have an influence on the psychology of pregnant women or women who have recently given birth, and therefore it is necessary to promote a preventive approach to ensure that an adequate risk assessment is carried out at work.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the european commission on its proposal to revise directive 86/609/eec, but i regret that the rapporteur did not propose more ambitious objectives. i think we need to invest more in research to find alternatives to using animals for scientific purposes, and to force laboratories to use as little as possible for scientific experiments on animals, especially those taken from the wild. i am firmly against the use of nonhuman primates in biomedical research, accepting only the necessity of their use exclusively in experiments on deadly or disabling diseases. from an ethical point of view, there must be an upper limit of pain, suffering and fear, a limit beyond which animals should never be subjected to scientific experimentation. in this regard, experiments which cause severe pain, suffering or distress and which tend to be prolonged should be prohibited. i know that public health is extremely important, but for the testing of treatments we must not allow animals to be exposed to extreme suffering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
on behalf of the pse group. i too would like to congratulate my colleague from grandes pascual and to mention that, indeed, the pollution of the seas must be a subject we discuss more often. unfortunately, i can give the example of the black sea, which in just the last two years, the fact that it has become very polluted has led to a fourfold increase in the volume of algae, precisely because of a very high concentration of nitrates. it is clear that shipping is unfortunately responsible for some of this pollution and this directive is really about dealing with illegal dumping of ships, which has been committed either through negligence, bad faith or recklessness. in essence, the directive harmonises the definition of pollution caused by ships, whether by natural or legal persons, the scope of their liability and the criminal nature of the penalties which may be applied in the case of such offences committed by natural persons. i would like to mention that a coherent set of legislative measures has already been adopted at european level to enhance maritime safety and prevent pollution from ships. this legislation shall apply to and be addressed to flag states, ship-owners and classification societies, port states and coastal states. it is important, however, to strengthen the current system of sanctions for illegal ship dumping by supplementing the legislation. it must be stressed that this legislation was necessary precisely because the existing rules of a preventive nature were not sufficiently applied and, unfortunately, marpol 73/78 was not sufficiently applied. that is why i think it is important to have this legislative package and the fact that there have been opinions from both the juri committee and the committee on petitions i think shows the importance of this subject.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as shadow rapporteur for the liberal group, i would like to thank malcolm harbour and my other colleagues for their excellent cooperation. this dossier is of great importance for all electronic communications users in the european union, and the compromise we agreed in the end with the council – and they were not at all easy discussions – was a balanced one. there have been some important achievements as a result of the negotiations with the council. one of the great improvements in comparison to the first reading relates to access to the 112 european emergency number, and the obligation of operators to make caller location available without any derogation on the grounds of technical feasibility, at least for fixed and mobile telephone operators. this is a major achievement since it will help the emergency services respond more efficiently, and will enhance the protection of all citizens’ lives wherever they are in the european union. the provisions on traffic management policies were a controversial point in the report, but i strongly believe that the compromise protects users’ rights to access content and use services of their own choice. no one in this house ever wanted to restrict freedom on the internet. our objective has been to allow traffic management procedures, as long as they are necessary, to ensure the best possible online experience for end-users, and as long as they do not restrict competition between service providers. i consider the compromise to be totally in line with this objective, which is why i fully support it. i also believe that all measures regarding access to, and use of, services should respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens, and this has also been safeguarded in the report. some among us may not be happy with this compromise, but i would like to stress that, despite its shortcomings, this is the best we could achieve with the council, and i strongly advise you to vote for it tomorrow.
i would like to begin by congratulating our fellow rapporteurs who have worked hard for over a year on this package, which is indeed extremely important for the citizens of the european union. the package has several documents; i think it is important to refer first and foremost to mrs trautmann's report which sets out the regulatory framework for the electronic communications sector and has covered some very important elements such as functional separation, spectrum policy, the use and promotion of next generation networks. i appreciate that the separation of functions was adopted, it was accepted as an extreme measure, as a special measure. i also think it is essential to stress here that consumer rights must be protected. that is why mr harbour's report has dealt with these elements and why our colleague reino paasilinna has succeeded in supporting the view of the european socialists, namely that the consumer must be the most important. it's important how the contract terms are negotiated so that every consumer is protected. as regards technological neutrality, it is good that a wide range of technical possibilities is thus made available to everyone, but i would like to stress that the internet offers enormous possibilities; it is essential that the consumer, the user, is protected, that there is no interference with personal data, that it is protected and, above all, that we must protect intellectual property, but not to the detriment of the interests of consumers. (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. − madam president, energy labelling is something we started in 1992 with the goal of achieving energy savings for products in the household sector. this initiative has been very successful and has given many benefits to eu citizens in the last 15 years. however, 1992 is some time ago. some time has passed since then, and the commission decided to bring forward a proposal for recasting the energy labelling directive, intending to bring further benefits to european citizens, industry and public authorities alike, firstly by extending its scope to all energy-related products, secondly by strengthening market surveillance, and thirdly by encouraging energy-efficient public procurement and incentive practices. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs podimata, for producing, in a short period of time, the report on a highly complex proposal, giving the opportunity for a second-reading agreement, when the council will really enter into the discussion. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for having given this proposal careful consideration. the report will definitely add some very significant improvements, welcomed by the commission, to the initial proposal. the rapporteur is right to highlight two issues that will be the cornerstone of future debates between the council and parliament. the first is the issue of advertising and how far we can go to promote energy-efficient product selling practices without hampering the role of civil liberties or freedom of the press, and the second is the issue of the layout of the label – whether it should be a closed label or an open-ended scale label. on my way to parliament this morning, i found some leaflets in the lifts which demonstrated that this ostensibly simple issue of labelling is not so simple. we have, on the one side, consumer organisations, and on the other side producers, who would also like to follow the same goal of providing more energy-efficient products to consumers. at first reading there was substantial debate in the itre committee, and we need to find the best solution to the issues raised by the rapporteur at second reading. i can assure you that the commission will try its best to accommodate different points of view because it is working for the benefit of consumers and society. labels should be effective and strong, and at the same time the right incentives should be provided to producers to develop more efficient products. thank you for the report. i really am grateful to the rapporteur for all the work that she has put into preparing it.
on behalf of the pse group. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs podimata, on her report. the directive on labelling and consumer information on the energy consumption of products is a very important element in my view. the european union has set itself the objective of reducing energy consumption by 20%, and if we can inform consumers correctly so that they can make an informed choice, then we can indeed reduce energy consumption in the products we use. as for the label, it must be simple, that is essential; it must be complete and, of course, it must give the consumer the information he needs to make the necessary investment. therefore, i believe it is important to mention on the label the elements related to energy consumption or energy savings that could be achieved. i also think it is important to have this a to g scale, which is simple, but i would like to mention that i think it is important to specify the expiry date, so that the consumer is informed as soon as certain products are advertised. i do not think that the obligation to provide information on energy consumption in any way impedes freedom of expression and media provisions. i think we all have an interest in having a well-informed consumer who can make an informed decision to reduce energy consumption. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the document is extremely important, it is part of an energy efficiency package and i still support an interesting debate during the second reading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft because i believe that the scope of the marketing standards for poultrymeat should be extended to poultrymeat preparations and products and to salted poultrymeat, which is increasingly being marketed. it must be borne in mind that when poultrymeat is sold in a 'fresh' state, the consumer expects that it has never been frozen or quick-frozen before, which is a guarantee of quality for the consumer. therefore, the current principle that poultrymeat sold 'fresh' may not be frozen beforehand should be strengthened and extended to cover poultrymeat preparations and products. it should be noted that this proposal does not affect the community budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products (reform). i believe that better information on the energy efficiency of products is needed. any advertising promoting the technical specifications of household refrigerators, washing machines or ovens shall indicate the energy consumption of the product. energy labelling helps consumers to assess their energy costs when purchasing electrical household products such as refrigerators, washing machines or clothes, dryers or ovens. manufacturers are obliged to indicate energy consumption, regardless of whether products are 'more energy efficient' (green) or 'less energy efficient' (red). the labelling will also apply to energy-intensive products for commercial and industrial use, such as cold rooms or cold showcases. advertising shall indicate energy consumption and energy savings. member states may adopt incentive measures, including tax credits for highly energy efficient products.
the european union has long been praised for its social model. but for years we have seen a weakening of labour law and social rights. a poor country in the union would have as many inhabitants as germany. new social phenomena are emerging. after the last enlargement, it seems that social europe has two speeds and both backwards. in response, the commission proposed a modest social agenda. the financial crisis immediately erupted, with far-reaching economic effects; on the contrary, the risk of worsening the situation of those already at risk increased. in these circumstances, a principle must be imposed: social rights and objectives take precedence over economic freedoms in the event of conflict. we have to contradict a long tradition that says that wars and crises are caused by the rich, but the costs are borne by the poor. let's reject the idea, dear ones, that profits are privatized, but losses are socialized. we need a policy of european solidarity and cohesion with concrete legislative, fiscal and financial measures. but this requires political will, and that political will has as its keywords: active inclusion, jobs, the intelligent division of labour, education, equal treatment and pay, sustainable and green development. the signing and implementation of a social and employment pact would be proof of this political will. we're waiting for her!
i too would like to see - and i will vote for - the proposals for making the globalisation adjustment fund an effective instrument to combat the most painful effect of the economic crisis, namely job losses, as particularly useful. it was not right that this fund could now only be accessed in situations where jobs were lost due to relocation of firms, a situation that was usually found in developed countries. the proposed amendments will allow less developed member states, including romania, to be eligible for this fund.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an important instrument used by the european commission to alleviate the economic crisis and help those directly affected. there are industries or segments of the economy - such as the financial, automotive and retail sectors - that are most affected by the crisis, having to resort to job cuts and staff restructuring, as we see in romania. a study shows that in the first quarter of 2009, three times as many jobs were lost as created in the european union. by countering the effects of the international economic crisis, we can also achieve the objective of social, economic and territorial cohesion. i believe that this can be better achieved if the egf targets unemployed people from the same region or neighbouring regions and even from different member states if they share a common border. on the one hand, we must show solidarity with those who have lost their jobs and on the other hand we must help them to return to the labour market. the retraining and specialisation of staff according to the areas of development and the specific resources of each area can lead to the creation of new jobs.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for the openness he has shown. i agree with the commission's proposals that animals should only be killed by a method which ensures immediate death or after stunning, but accepting as exceptions the slaughter in the context of religious rituals. they also claim that the present regulation should not apply to sacrifices for personal consumption, in accordance with the traditions of important religious holidays such as easter and christmas and only for a period of 10 days before the date on which they take place. personnel involved in killing operations and related operations shall undergo appropriate training, normally culminating in the award of a certificate of competence. the rules introduced at european level for the protection of animals are among the strictest in the world. this leads to higher production costs and may distort competition with countries with less stringent legislation in this area. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that meat products or other products of animal origin imported from third countries comply with european standards. it is desirable that the commission should be able to carry out inspections in slaughterhouses authorised to export to the european union to certify that, in addition to the health certificates already granted, the animal welfare rules are complied with.
first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague, petya stavreva, on the quality of the report she presented to us today. i support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, such as the provision of eur 250 million for activities relating to new challenges, even if, as the commissioner said, we will have to look at this again. given the need for a rapid response to the current economic crisis, it would be useful - and we all know this - to provide for payments that can be made as early as the 2009 budget year. this approach is also in line with the presidency conclusions of the european council of 12 december 2008. an important aspect of the current economic crisis is the reduction in general availability of credit and the tightening of conditions for obtaining credit from banks. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal that member states should be able to use the funds made available for loans and credit guarantees, which would allow stakeholders in rural areas to make investments in these difficult times. due to the dispersed population and high costs in some rural communities, not all citizens could have private access to broadband infrastructure. they therefore consider that, alongside the proposed infrastructure operations, member states should be able to support public internet facilities in rural communities, such as those in public libraries and town halls. i therefore agree that specific information should be made available to the general public and to the local authorities responsible for implementing these new measures. in order to ensure the most effective use of available resources and to allow for considerable development of broadband internet in rural areas, i believe that existing differences between member states in broadband coverage should be used as an indicator for the differentiated allocation of these funds.
i would also like to congratulate our fellow rapporteurs. this document is important as interconnection of energy infrastructure must be a priority. i believe that more needs to be invested in modernising the infrastructure for the generation and transmission of electricity, and i say this in view of the power cuts of a few years ago, which affected several european countries. i think the nabucco project needed a bigger budget. it is, however, good that the importance of this project is recognised once again by this document. as regards the energy efficiency of buildings, compared with the commission's communication in october, which provided for eur 5 billion for this subject, we find no resources in this document either. we have this provision for smart cities, but the money will only be used if there is money left over, and i think that's unacceptable, because jobs have to be created and there's a huge potential in this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). i support this act because it provides for an additional eur 250 million over the funds planned for 2009 and more flexibility in the allocation and use of financial resources for the development of broadband internet in rural areas and for new challenges in agriculture. this supplement of the eafrd is necessary, especially in crisis conditions. romania must access this fund through viable projects, in order to develop our villages and raise the living standards of the people in our rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gabriela stauner report because i believe that the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund should be extended to cover redundancies caused by the economic and financial crisis. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide effective support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation. after the adoption of this legislative act, the money from this fund will also be able to be used for redundancies resulting from the economic and financial crisis. the co-financing rate from the fund is 50% and may be increased to 65% by 2011. the maximum annual financial envelope available for the european globalisation adjustment fund is eur 500 million, to be used to support people in finding a job or to finance vocational training and mobility allowances. i hope romania will also access money from this fund to help people who lose their jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to assist economic recovery by granting community financial assistance for energy projects. the european economic recovery plan foresees investments of €5 billion in energy projects, broadband internet and rural development measures. eur 3.98 billion will be invested in infrastructure for electricity, natural gas, wind energy, carbon capture/storage. the european parliament supports the allocation of eur 1.02 billion for rural development projects. the economic recovery plan provides for €200 million for the construction of the nabucco pipeline that will transport natural gas from the caspian sea region to the eu. romania shall support this project. funding from this recovery plan is essential for romania for the gas interconnection projects romania-hungary (eur 30 million) and romania-bulgaria (eur 10 million) and for the development of infrastructure for equipment to reverse the flow of gas in the event of a short-term interruption of supply (eur 80 million).
the reporter. − the community computer system eurodac became operational in january 2003 and is designed to compare the fingerprints of asylum seekers and certain third country nationals or stateless persons. this system ensures the correct, accurate and timely application of the dublin regulation, which aims to establish an efficient and operational mechanism for determining responsibility for asylum applications lodged in one of the member states of the european union. eurodac is a computerised database containing the fingerprints of applicants for international protection aged 14 or over. this report aims to improve the efficiency of the system and to address the problems identified in the evaluation of the first years of operation. we have developed a number of effective and practical solutions to the problems of the collection and transmission of dactyloscopic data by member states. in the first stage, fingerprints are collected within 48 hours of the asylum application being lodged, and in the second stage, member states send the data thus obtained to the eurodac central system within 24 hours. the report shall include provisions allowing for the extension of the 48-hour period in exceptional cases, such as: where a quarantine period is required due to a serious contagious disease, where fingerprints have been destroyed, and in cases of well-founded and proven force majeure, for as long as these circumstances persist. the report advocates the establishment as soon as possible of a decentralised management agency for eurodac, the vis and sis ii, to ensure the most efficient operation of these systems. the management agency shall develop a common set of requirements to be met by persons authorised to access eurodac infrastructure and information. provisions were also introduced to prohibit the provision of data recorded in eurodac to the authorities of any other unauthorised third country, in particular to the country of origin of the applicants for protection, in order to protect the family members of asylum seekers from the serious consequences to which they might be exposed. in drafting the report, we aimed to establish rules to ensure that the system operates as efficiently and as quickly as possible, while at the same time protecting personal data and fundamental human rights. last but not least, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have worked very well, and my colleagues in the libe committee, who voted for the report by a large majority. a thank you to the amendment authors. i would like to note the excellent cooperation with the council and the european commission, to whom i am grateful.
the reporter. - i come from a country, romania, which until 1989 was ruled by a totalitarian and, i might say, murderous communist regime. this regime has kept its citizens in a big prison. yet, tens of thousands of people risked their lives to flee and seek political asylum. i know a lot of these destinations, and i know how important international protection is, the protection of the institution of political asylum. but it is essential that we identify the real asylum seekers, the ones who really have a legitimate claim for political asylum. and, by improving the recording system, obviously we can solve these cases much faster. but i would also like to discuss another problem in parallel, namely that of networks, the criminal criminality of networks of asylum-seekers. there are networks that make huge amounts of money transporting asylum seekers to the member countries of the european union. and i think that the fight against this criminal phenomenon should be a priority concern and a strategy should be developed to combat this phenomenon.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would not like to leave without an answer - even though i have no really satisfactory answer to give - to mr busuttil, or to the italian members who have spoken, mr borghezio, mr catania and all the others; i would like to say, however, that the problem in the mediterranean is not a problem that can be confined to malta and italy. it is really necessary for europeans to realize the increasingly tragic and dramatic situation that has been exposed here. i myself went to lampedusa and malta. i met the two ministers in brussels on the occasion of an initial incident. we have, thank god, managed to find a solution. but i will raise the matter again with all the interior ministers at the jha council in early june. we will try to help malta and italy as much as we can, but it is true that there must be a european awareness, a european awareness of all the member states, of a situation which cannot be left to the sole responsibility of two member states. and so we have to think; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. eurodac is a key tool for managing information on applicants for international protection and immigrants who have either been detained for illegally crossing the border or are overstaying their legal stay in a member state. the reform of the eurodac regulation will address difficulties related to the effectiveness of its legislative provisions, such as the late transmission of fingerprints to the eurodac central system by certain member states, the exchange of data on refugees recognised in a given member state and the vague designation of the authorities having access to the eurodac database. i believe that a more efficient use of the eurodac database will only be possible when eurodac uses the same technical platform as sis ii and vis. the biometric matching system should be common to sis ii, vis and eurodac in order to ensure their interoperability and cost efficiency. i ask the commission to submit the necessary legislative proposals to establish an agency responsible for managing the three it systems, so that these tools can be brought together in a single location and that optimal synergy between them can be ensured in the long term, thus avoiding overlap and lack of coherence.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thank the three rapporteurs and i would first like to turn to mr zwiefka and mr deprez. the commission is of course pleased that compromises have been found. however, it is true that there have been intensive negotiations since february and that agreement has been reached at first reading on the two proposals presented by the commission at the end of 2008. this is a very sensitive area for all the institutions involved - commission, council, european parliament - as mr deprez has very well emphasised. i thank all the parties for having reached a text which seems to us to respect the institutional prerogatives of the commission and, at the same time, to be a response to the legitimate expectations of the member states and parliament. but i would like to remind you that this is an exceptional procedure, limited in scope and time, and that the exclusive competence of the community in the matters concerned must, in any event, continue to be respected. i am very firm on this point and i agree with what mr deprez said, that the member states should not use this opportunity to take back certain powers and to encourage the commission to give up proposing in a certain way. i think we can agree on that. however, it is also true that this flexibility will enable the member states, in the absence of the exercise of community competence, to benefit from an institutional framework to facilitate citizens' access to justice in third countries, especially in the field of family law. yes, we must think - mr zwiefka and mr deprez alluded to this - of the rules on divorce, child custody, visitation rights, maintenance obligations and the difficult situations which can arise in the absence of legislation which is universally applicable to these matters at international level. the proposal on the law applicable to contractual and non-contractual obligations could also have a positive effect on solving very concrete, very specific problems, such as those connected, for example, with road and river traffic, as well as with the management of airports situated on the borders of several states, such as the basle-mulhouse-fribourg airport. however, this is another application of this institutional framework, which must, once again, remain exceptional. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the juri and libe committees for their work and for their understanding, which has enabled this agreement to be reached before the end of the mandate of this parliament. i now turn to the pagano report, whose approach and content i share. i welcome the growing involvement of parliament in the field of criminal justice, not only in legislative action but also in designing the future of the european area of criminal justice. thank you, mrs pagano, for supporting our work at the moment, as we prepare the stockholm programme and will be publishing a communication containing recommendations for the period 2010-14. and i am glad that your report fully supports the principle of mutual recognition. it is thanks to the principle of mutual recognition that the union has achieved important successes, the european arrest warrant, and all this outlines a real area of criminal justice. the report also mentions the problems encountered in implementing the principle of mutual recognition and it is true that it is necessary to ensure the coherent and complete transposition and application of the many existing instruments which are based on the principle of mutual recognition. but it is true that there can be no mutual recognition without strengthening mutual trust between the judicial authorities of the member states. it's really the first ingredient of mutual recognition. i therefore thank the european parliament for advocating the creation of a genuine common judicial culture, as you have just said, mrs pagano. you have rightly stressed the development of training for the judicial professions, training in european mechanisms, relations with the court of justice, the use of mutual recognition instruments, judicial cooperation and comparative law. i fully agree with your report on this point, because i believe that in the stockholm programme the training of judges and the exchange of judges between member states will be the key to the future of this european area of law which we so dearly wish to see. of course, we will also use the justice forum, which is a meeting place for the various networks of legal professionals, which plays a key role in making practitioners aware of the european dimension of their work and, with the help of the union, well, these practitioners must cooperate to really exchange best practice. the commission also agrees with the proposal put forward in the report really, thank you for an evaluation mechanism which is not limited to the transposition of union instruments but which covers the state of justice in the member states more generally. how effective, how rapid, how much respect for the defence guarantees? work on this subject has already begun with the idea, launched by the dutch minister of justice, to create an evaluation mechanism on the state of the functioning of justice, on compliance with the principles of the rule of law, while, of course, using existing material and providing added value in terms of political monitoring. these assessments would allow recommendations to be made. the commission also supports greater involvement of the european parliament in its evaluation mechanisms. mr deprez, this would be an opportunity to involve parliament in the work of the groups of experts which we will be setting up this year and in the years to come. and then you mention the transposition of the new eurojust decision. here again we agree with the approach suggested in the report, with the usefulness of an implementation plan and of expert meetings with the member states. this is what will ensure that the new eurojust decision is implemented swiftly. finally, the report stresses the need to make good use of new technologies. the european e-justice strategy was launched to exploit the potential of information and communication technologies in the field of justice. i can only thank the european parliament for its work and for the reflections it has given us in this area. i am also convinced that together we will succeed in building this area of criminal justice, this area of law which normally must be the result of a community of citizens who are rightly entitled to quality justice, regardless of the member state in which they are located.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i welcome this opportunity to speak on these three important legislative proposals, and am grateful to the rapporteurs for the extensive work which has gone into their reports. i would like first to comment on the first two proposals, and then to turn to the third proposal on the issue of the further development of criminal justice within the eu. the objective of the two proposals covered by the reports from mr zwiefka and mr deprez is to establish a procedure which will allow the member states to negotiate and conclude agreements with third countries on aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters falling within the exclusive competence of the community. the first proposal, subject to the codecision procedure, covers applicable law in contractual and non-contractual obligations. the second, subject to the consultation procedure, covers certain matters in the area of family law. i would like to underline that the procedure put in place by the two future regulations is devised in such a way as to ensure the integrity of community law. before authorising the negotiation of an agreement, the commission will check that the envisaged agreement does not render community law ineffective or undermine the proper functioning of the system established by its rules. the commission will also check that the envisaged agreement does not undermine external relations policy as decided by the community. it could in fact be argued that, by making it possible for member states to negotiate and conclude agreements with third countries that are compatible with community law, the range of operation of community law is extended to countries outside the european union. the procedure established by the two proposals will apply primarily to the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral agreements between a member state and third countries. it will in certain cases, however, also apply to the negotiation and conclusion of regional agreements between more than one member state and/or more than one third country. as far as regional agreements are concerned, the procedure established by the proposal in the area of the family law will apply to the amendment or renegotiation of two already-existing conventions between the nordic states. in the proposal in the area of applicable law, only a few regional arrangements will in fact fall within its scope. these could cover, for example, the operation of an airport situated in a border area, waterways common to two or more countries, or cross-border bridges and tunnels. the procedure established in the two proposals is based on a high degree of trust and cooperation between the member states and the commission. a mechanism is provided to deal with those situations where the commission, on the basis of its assessment, reaches the conclusion that the negotiation or conclusion of an agreement should not be authorised. in such situations, the member state concerned and the commission will enter into discussions with the aim of finding a solution together. the presidency, on behalf of the council, hopes and expects that it will be possible to reach a first reading agreement on the proposal in the area of applicable law. constructive negotiations have taken place between the european parliament, the commission and the council, during which the three institutions have together managed to solve a number of difficult issues. as the proposal in the area of applicable law is largely identical to the proposal in the area of family law, it goes without saying that the amendments made to the first proposal have been taken over in the second proposal, even though that proposal is not subject to the codecision procedure. it is, in the interest of good law-making, highly desirable to maintain parallelism between the two texts. i would like to conclude with a few comments on parliament’s recommendation on the development of eu criminal justice, which is the subject of the report by ms pagano. the council very much agrees on the importance of mutual recognition as a cornerstone of judicial cooperation within the eu. we consider that it should both be broadened – by adopting other legal instruments in the future – and deepened, through a more effective implementation of the mutual recognition instruments adopted so far. in this context, the council would like to draw parliament’s attention to the fact that it is in the process of finalising the fourth round of mutual evaluations on the practical implementation of the european arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between the member states. within the context of this series of mutual evaluations, experts have also been studying the issues related to interaction between, on the one hand, the european arrest warrant, and, more generally, the principle of mutual recognition, and, on the other hand, the proportionality principle. however, the proportionality principle also has to be balanced with another principle, which is equally dear to parliament – namely that of subsidiarity. the reality is that judicial authorities in various member states have differing views on what constitutes a serious offence. the council looks forward to further work with parliament and the commission on the establishment of a system of horizontal and continuous evaluation and implementation of eu policies and legal instruments. on the issue of judicial training, the council shares parliament’s opinion that there is a need to foster a genuine eu judicial culture by, inter alia, promoting direct exchanges between judges, prosecutors and members of the judicial staff of different member states, and to actively develop the european judicial training network. the council also shares parliament’s view on the need for a swift and effective implementation of the new eurojust and europol decisions. by way of conclusion, i would like to thank parliament for the extensive and detailed work which has gone into the three reports before us this afternoon.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. after world war ii, national borders separated communities and families. i'm referring to a european example that's close to home. one part of szelmenc, formerly belonging to hungary, is now part of the territory of a european union member state, slovakia, under the name of nagyszelmenc, and the other part, kisselmenc, is in ukraine. until 23 december 2005, there was no border crossing between the two villages. for 60 years, parents, children, relatives lived apart without seeing each other for decades. the union has given them the opportunity they have been waiting for, the opening of the border crossing. the example cited is just one of many hundreds or thousands, and it is a powerful argument for why we are discussing this report now. the draft regulation establishes a procedure for jurisdiction between member states and third countries in matrimonial matters, matters of parental responsibility and matters relating to maintenance obligations. this regulation will not override community law, as it will apply only where the member state concerned demonstrates that it has a specific interest, in particular in relation to economic, geographical, cultural or historical links between the member state and the third country in question, in concluding the bilateral sectoral agreement with the third country. however, the commission notes that the proposed agreement has only a limited impact on the uniform and consistent application of the existing community rules and on the proper functioning of the system established by those rules. i would like to thank my colleague, mr deprez, for taking up this important subject which affects the lives of citizens of the union and those living outside the union, all the more so because the document strikes a balance between the legal powers of the community institutions and those of the national states.
mr president, tonight the hope generated by the czech ratification of the lisbon treaty is being overshadowed by the quasi-conspiratorial atmosphere of this meeting. some were afraid that by preparing the proper implementation of a treaty badly and urgently needed we might offend certain citizens of the union. i believe that, on the contrary, we are offending the citizens by hiding the truth about what europe really is, and could be, and by refusing a frank and rational dialogue with them. likewise, to show respect for a minority opinion while ignoring the majority decision is offensive to both the given majority and the general principles of democracy we all claim to cherish. the written text of a treaty is not enough. one has to give that text a clarifying interpretation which puts in light its spirit, thus allowing for the best implementation. that is precisely what today’s reports are doing. they speak about: one, the parliamentarisation of the union; two, the communitarisation of the european institutions; three, the establishment of an interinstitutional equilibrium as a guarantee for a transnational checks-and-balances system; four, the assurance of legislative coherence and cohesion at european union level through europeanisation of the national parliaments and not nationalisation of the european parliament; five, concentrations of instruments and policies for the good of institutional efficiency; and, six, the improvement of representation, transparency and participation at european union level. along those lines, we will be able to see emerging a demos which will fill with substance the present shell of the european procedures, making them relevant to the citizens. the only thing which remains to be done is to find a solution to bridge the elections to the new parliament and the coming into force of the lisbon treaty. i hope that the sense of responsibility and solidarity of our irish fellows will help us to achieve that, and to keep to our historical timetable.
in writing. there is only one small step left to take before the treaty of lisbon is adopted, which, once in force, will bring the european union much closer to its 500 million inhabitants. romania, the country i represent in the european parliament, is one of the first countries to ratify the treaty because its entire political class believes in the european construction. the european parliament elections will not be held under the auspices of the lisbon treaty, but this in itself demonstrates how democratic and representative the institution of the european community is and how important each of its nations is. european institutions, including the european parliament, are far too abstract for the citizen of the community at the moment. the importance of parliament in the union's decision-making process has increased with each european treaty. the lisbon treaty is no exception and creates a parliament with a significantly greater involvement in the legislative process. the treaty will bring the union closer to its citizens. each of us knows how difficult it is to bring the problems of the community to the attention of the citizens of our countries of origin. the fact that the european parliamentarians, who are directly elected by each member state, are given increased powers is, at the moment, the best solution for humanizing an institutional structure that is unique in the world.
in writing. i would first like to welcome the favourable vote of the czech senate on the treaty of lisbon, which is a step forward for the overall ratification process. i believe that the early application of this treaty is desirable, as it ensures a more efficient, more transparent and, above all, more democratic functioning of the eu. i support the rapporteur's conclusions on the reorganisation of the european parliament and hope that the outcome of the parliamentary reform working group will be in line with the increased role of the parliament as provided for in the treaty. i would like to make a few remarks on the procedure for appointing the european commission. i am in principle in favour of the proposed timetable for appointing the commission with the mention that some stages could probably be shortened so that the european institutions are not paralysed for months when we have european elections. given the failure to ratify the treaty of lisbon in time, it is desirable that after the 2009 elections the appointments should be made in a procedure as close as possible to that provided for in the treaty of lisbon. the problem is complex, however, because until we know the outcome of the irish vote, we must bear in mind the need to respect the treaty of nice, which is currently in force.
the cultural sector certainly contributes to the achievement of economic objectives, given that it involves some 5,8 million workers, but also to social objectives, by promoting the values of the european union in the world, not to mention the extension of consumer choice by increasing the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry in the union. the programme is also relevant because it takes into account the impact of technological developments in the field, all the more so as this has generated an increasing demand for audiovisual content. a coherent programme for the promotion of european audiovisual works in the world is welcome, taking into account the fragmentation of the profile market at the level of the continent, compared, for example, with the audiovisual industry in the united states of america. last but not least, i am convinced that the added value of the member states' film industries will be better exploited. i can give you an example of the cinema in my country, romania, which has so far been confirmed by the important awards it has won at european and world level. i congratulate the rapporteur and wish her every success in her life after the european parliament.
the allocation of slots is a problem directly linked to the lack of airport capacity, especially at large airports. the economic crisis and the relative decrease in traffic caused by it only postpone, in the short term, the real problem, namely the difficulties created by the congestion of the large airport hubs and the potential congestion of small airports. we have a duty to find solutions to the problems of the moment, but we must not lose sight of solving the problems of the future. parliament called on the european commission to draw up a coherent master plan for airport capacity building. a number of european airports have such plans, but their coordination at european level, in the context of the newly approved single sky, is imperative. i am convinced that, with the creation of the european observatory last november, this will be achieved in the near future. this plan is essential for the sustainable development of the air transport sector, a vital sector for the european economy. the problem of slot machines is not just a european problem. the traffic at european airports does not come exclusively from europe. for this reason, the slot issue must also be resolved at international level, with the support of iata, eurocontrol and all stakeholders in this field. i therefore believe that the recommendation made today by parliament to the commission to re-examine in the near future the impact of the crisis on air traffic and to revise directive 95/93 in this context is the most appropriate formula we can propose at this uncertain time. without careful analysis, we risk unwarranted harm to both the principle of competition, which is fundamental to the economy, and to the emerging airlines, whose development still depends, unfortunately, on the 'use it or lose it' rule. the losers would be the passengers first, and that doesn't have to happen.
rapporteur. − mr president, the eurodac report is a recast and would make the system work more efficiently. rapid data collection and transmission can shorten the period of granting, or not, human rights, and that is very important. this is the last plenary session i shall be attending as an mep. i want to thank you all and say optimistically: goodbye, auf wiedersehen, au revoir, arrivederci, hasta luego, la revedere! (applause)
mr president, i want to propose the following oral amendment to paragraph 10: i wish to add the name of mr sergiu mocanu. the text would read: ‘... politically-motivated arrests, such as those of anatol matasaru, sergiu mocanu and gabriel stati;’.
the situation in the republic of moldova is clear today. we have a communist party that has a behavior identical to that of the soviet communist parties that enslaved half of europe in the 20th century. we have a democratically inspired opposition, which is campaigning for a republic of moldova attached to european values. the resolution we voted on today sends a strong political signal to chisinau, but this signal must be clearly backed up by concrete action by the commission and the council. i therefore call on the european commission to work actively with the democratic opposition in chisinau to find effective ways of strengthening democratic awareness in the republic of moldova. the most effective method, in my opinion, is to lift the visa requirement for citizens of the republic of moldova in the community area. i want to make it clear to the council that we must not have any illusions. the key to the democratization of the republic of moldova is still in moscow. the european union must act to diminish this influence, and history shows that this action must be vigorous. the citizens of moldova expect from the european union exactly what the citizens of eastern europe expected from the western world before 1989.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in the republic of moldova. i consider it extremely important that all the political groups have given this matter the attention and support it deserves. as a member of the european socialist group in the european parliament, i call on the european union to continue to provide all the support it needs to the republic of moldova to fulfil its european destiny, in accordance with the aspirations of its people. it is important that the republic of moldova develops economically and offers its citizens the best possible living conditions, the chance to achieve it. i believe that romania, as a member state of the european union neighbouring the republic of moldova, must contribute, under the terms and on the basis of an agreement of cooperation, good neighbourliness and mutual respect, to the economic and social development of this country.
i wish the swedish presidency success and i believe that the priorities set out are what we expected. the next six months are decisive for european citizens as well as for the european union, they are decisive whether our countries will emerge from the crisis in the next year or, on the contrary, the next year will continue to be a big question mark. there are many proposals being made, new programmes, but i think it's time to assess the impact of the economic recovery programme that the european commission launched at the beginning of the year, if it has an impact, what impact it has, to also analyse the eu budget for this year, to see what activities are no longer being done and what resources we might still have to make available to come up with new measures. we also have investment projects for the energy sector already approved of that amount of about three billion euros and we will have to take concrete steps in implementing these projects. i would like to thank president barroso for his outstanding contribution to bringing the nabucco project to life. finally, i would like to remind you of the european union's political commitment to bring other countries into the european union.
for us, sweden is one with europe. the homeland of prosperity, security and freedom is a country where the issues of human rights and freedoms are as important as the economic and climate change concerns. on june 30, 2009, the parliament of one eu country passed a language law that says that if you say the name of the capital of that country not in the official language of the country, bratislava, but in german, presburg or in hungarian, pozsony, you can pay a fine of up to 5,000 euros. the reasoning for the amendment to the language law states at one point that the protection of the state language may in certain cases override the freedom of speech and the freedom of private life. the european union that adopts such a law is no longer the europe of freedom. i ask the swedish presidency to make sure that this law is withdrawn, that the slovak head of state does not sign it.
in writing. the stockholm programme, a priority for the swedish presidency, must serve as a support both for the strengthening of the area of freedom, security and justice and for economic activity in this period of crisis, especially in the context of the possible entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the success of the stockholm programme will mean the opening up of europe to its citizens and will translate into the application of the right of free movement for all european citizens and a general application of the principle of mutual recognition in civil and criminal matters at union level. the swedish presidency must continue the efforts of the french and czech presidencies, whose priorities were full access for all eu workers to the community labour market, the freedom that best characterises european citizenship. to do this, member states must actively and concretely participate in the abolition of virtual borders within the eu, which hamper the free movement of citizens, who face administrative and legal difficulties when living and working in another member state. freedom of movement must be effective for all eu citizens, especially in times of economic crisis, which highlights the need to promote unrestricted labour mobility, self-regulating mobility, ensuring flexibility, reducing undeclared work and the natural rate of unemployment.
in writing. the eu is facing huge challenges today: the economic and financial crisis, alarming unemployment and climate change. today, the unemployment rate in the eu stands at 8.9%, and 19% of young people under 16 and 19% of the elderly are at risk of poverty. people lose their jobs, many businesses go bankrupt, and national budgets run large deficits. the swedish eu presidency has a huge responsibility to its citizens: to give them hope for a decent life and, through a joint effort, to lay the foundations for economic recovery. increasing energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and increasing the eu's energy security are among the priorities of the swedish presidency. i hope that the swedish eu presidency will usher in a period of prosperity, which will ensure a period of economic growth for the next 40-50 years. i think, especially in this period, we need to invest in education, in research, in energy efficiency and especially in people. sweden is known for its social policies and high standard of living. so, together with my colleagues in the european parliament and all european citizens, i wish you success and hope that this period will be a bridge to a new future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the chinese people are completely right to ask us why the european parliament has put the situation in china on the agenda of the first part-session of its new mandate. our answer must be clear: this is because china is very important to us and not because we think that our role is to teach china or to impose our views on how sensitive internal problems of this country should be solved. it is precisely because china is so important to us that we should pay close attention to any event affecting its internal stability and any event that could become a threat to its security. this time the context was given by the multi-ethnic realities in the xinjiang region and the aspirations of the uighur predominant ethnic group to autonomy. such contexts are always sensitive and, therefore, respect for human and minority rights leading towards the sense of dignity and security for both minority and majority is important. minority rights, however, should not be an excuse for, and they could not excuse, the separatist policies, the extremist means to promote those policies and certainly not the killing of peaceful civilians belonging to a minority or to an ethnic community. while asking for full respect for human rights and minority rights, while expressing compassion for all victims of these rights, while asking for clarification concerning terrorist, religious, extremist and separatist dimensions of these events, the european parliament should offer its assistance to the chinese government and society in order to cope with these difficult realities, which are also a problem in some of our countries. while asking the chinese government to refrain from the excessive use of power, we have also to ask everybody in the world to refrain from using minority rights as a means for promoting geopolitical goals.
the question is, where are we? china or tiananmen square? china or tibet? china or uighurland? next to 1.2 billion chinese or 8 million uighurs? oppression, the introduction of alien life forms, comfort, health, money, or the peasant, nomadic past, poverty and many diseases, but the preservation of our culture and freedom? i look back at a speech or two by a colleague or two, and it's the text of the dictatorships of the past eastern european systems. a woman with 11 children is a terrorist? the one who was in prison and now has two kids in prison? where are we? that's the question. to the side of paper autonomy or to the side of real autonomy? is it oppression, alien life, the exploitation of uygurland's natural resources, or the preservation of cultures, freedom and the right of peoples to self-determination? i'm clear on where i stand. i hope it's for my colleagues, too. we need to make china our friend, to learn from us, but to do that, we need to set an example in human rights, in freedoms, in self-determination and autonomy. we have a lot of work to do. i am thinking of the newly joined countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr šemeta, whom i congratulate on his appointment and wish him every success. however, i cannot help expressing my concern - again, because i have done so in the committee on agriculture - at the suggestion made by the honourable member that part of the sums needed to finance the european economic restructuring plan should be obtained by reducing the funds for direct aid to agriculture. i hope that this was a simple misunderstanding and that such an unacceptable course of action will not be taken.
mr president, i believe that there are certain gaps in the romanian agricultural sector with regard to structural problems compared to the other member states. i would like to stress that the european union, with the political and economic levers it has, should pay more attention to the management of the funds allocated to agriculture in the member states which have joined later. i want to express my conviction that maintaining a sustainable agricultural sector with the appropriate budget after 2013 would solve this problem, giving farmers a medium and long-term perspective and sufficient funds, so that romanian agriculture aligns with european standards, becomes an opportunity for a united europe.
mr president, like other colleagues, i would like to raise an issue in the field of agriculture. however, a recent article in the wall street journal has particularly caught my attention and i therefore take it as my duty to present this article to parliament and to join the requests made by its authors. the title of the article - i think that's enough to understand what it's about: 'mr barroso, tear down the walls in the way of small businesses'. this article is nothing more than a call to the future european commission to put the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very vulnerable in this time of crisis, at the heart of its actions and not to take any discount from the implementation of the 2008 small business act. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that these measures are applied correctly and effectively, because they are needed by the over 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union.
the fight against racism is being waged by strong european policies, but in less than a week, politicians in germany and britain have cast a mudslide on romanian workers, either out of ignorance or out of a desire to win the sympathy and votes of the population. serious statements such as "romanians would rather stab you than look at you" made at a public meeting in the uk or remarks by a german politician that romanians do not come to work at 7am and do not know what to do are a big concern. we are building european policies to combat racism, that is our common objective, but what do we do when the statements come from colleagues in important eu countries?
mr president, i would like to speak to you today about a european project, 'youth's voice', which i have the honour of being asked to sponsor. the aim of this project, involving young people from all member states, is to identify and provide solutions to the social problems they face. i ask you, mr president, and the president of the european commission, to pay more attention to the proposals they are making. we have a responsibility in these difficult times to guarantee europe, and especially young european citizens, a clear chance. my generation has had the chance to participate in the reconstruction of a united europe, and young people have the right to make the europe of today, but especially the europe of tomorrow, the europe they imagine. thank you, so help us god.
the two dictatorships of the 20th century, the ideology of the far right and the far left, are back in the union of the 21st century. they're banning an eu citizen from entering another country. they're restricting his freedom of movement. 15 citizens would be locked up and barred from traveling because they were going to negotiate with their fellow citizens on minority issues at the carpathian basin representatives forum. on the territory of this country, those who do not speak the language of the state correctly are punished in hospitals, police stations, nursing homes, maternity wards, not even with immigrants on the territory of the union, let alone with people who have lived there for a thousand years on the territory where a new state was formed 17 years ago. it is therefore important that there is a uniform law for the protection of minorities across the union, which is binding on all countries.
mr president, personally i think that the time has come to make a shift in our approach to energy problems, namely by gradually shifting the emphasis from ‘energy security’ – that is, trying to secure our current deliveries from volatile suppliers – to ‘secure energy’, meaning the full exploitation of the energy sources firmly under the eu control. of course this will require parallel action in both directions for some time until the scales tip in the direction of the latter. because, indeed, if europe really wants to become a truly credible international actor as such, it should first achieve control over its energy supply; otherwise it will continue to be a collection of national actors, each pursuing its own national interests, and thus vulnerable to the divide-and-control tactics of ruthless external suppliers.
the formation of the alliance for european integration, following the early elections in july 2009, reconfirms the pro-european commitment of the citizens of the republic of moldova. it is a very important step that moldova and the european union cannot afford to misuse. the political situation is still fragile, and the success of the alliance and, by implication, of a democratic moldova, depends very much on the support of its european partners. moldova has taken responsibility for committing itself to a pro-european trajectory. the union has a responsibility to facilitate this journey. the european option of the moldovan people is now also represented at political level. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european convention on human rights. i call on the european commission to speed up the negotiations for the signing of the new agreement with the republic of moldova and to use all the necessary means to help the republic of moldova overcome its difficult financial situation.
i have to say, madam president, i think it's very important that we discuss this issue here. but what has not been addressed so far is to deal with the subject in the context of european development and regional development. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i very much appreciate the fact that such an important subject is being debated in the european parliament. personally, i've been in the automotive delivery business for over three years. in my own country, foreign investment in the automotive sector is the largest. the automobile industry therefore plays an important role in regional development. in addition to supporting innovation, we should also create incentives for the restructuring and expansion of automotive suppliers and manufacturers across europe, because one of the main objectives of the european commission and the european parliament is a high level of economic cohesion. the european commission should do more, including in the area of subsidies to the automotive industry. this should be seen as a response to the financial and economic crisis, but also as one of the building blocks for innovation in the automotive industry. opel is just one example of the fact that this sector is currently on the rise, but of course many more car manufacturers are in the same situation. we therefore want the european commission to give priority to this sector and this sector.
madam president, we are indeed talking about signs of a return to europe, but unfortunately the situation in the car industry is still worrying and that is why i believe we must send a clear signal to european countries to maintain programmes to replace old, energy-intensive cars with new cars, to maintain programmes to stimulate the budgets of those countries and, of course, we can attach certain conditions to these programmes for restructuring in order to save energy.
portugal, spain, france, italy, and greece have all experienced major forest fires this summer. in greece, the fires have devastated some 9,000 acres [21,200 ha], destroyed nearly 2 million trees, and destroyed at least 150 homes. in a coordinated european effort, france, spain, and cyprus sent canadair planes to the athens area to put out the fires. the eu's strategic reserve for fighting forest fires has thus once again proved useful. the eu solidarity fund can also help in such a situation, by covering part of the costs of emergency measures to restore infrastructure, provide temporary shelter and protect the natural heritage. i want to draw attention to the fact that a reduction in bureaucracy is needed to access this fund. i'll give you a concrete example, in my country of origin, last june there were natural disasters and today, in september 2009, the funds have not yet been distributed to the romanian government. i also believe that a sustainable forestry policy is needed in the future, as well as a strategy to prevent such disasters.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their excellent and very constructive contributions to the debate this evening and for the very good ideas they have put forward. emergencies often entail high human, economic and environmental costs. in the future, as many colleagues have pointed out, we will probably have to face more and more disasters because of climate change - not just forest fires, which will not be confined to southern europe but will also be seen in central europe and even in northern europe - but also other types of disasters, such as floods. the european instruments for disaster management, which have now clearly demonstrated their added value, must therefore be continually strengthened and improved. this was confirmed by the fires this summer, which reminded us that the community must improve not only its capacity to respond to natural disasters but also its ability to prevent them. this is something that has been emphasized by many speakers tonight. i should remind you that in february the commission presented a communication on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, in which it made a number of proposals. we await the comments of the european parliament and the council on this. i believe that the new parliament will not delay in its reply, which we have been awaiting since february. we believe that they will give us the political impetus, together with the corresponding resolution to be adopted at the next part-session, to move the relevant processes in this direction. i should also like to stress why many people have raised (mrs podimatou was the first to raise this, and many other colleagues have also spoken), the issue of climate change and the necessary adaptation that is needed and the proposed revision of the community's forestry strategy to address climate-related aspects. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the programme in the member states. i should add here that this commission communication is very important, as is the announcement we made last week on the financing of the climate change agreement we are expecting in copenhagen, where a large amount will be allocated to finance adaptation to climate change in developing countries. the resources will be directed to projects that are needed to enable those countries that are suffering from the effects of climate change, without having contributed to the greenhouse effect, to cope with these effects. i have even suggested not just waiting until 2013 to start this action, but starting immediately in 2010. i hope that the european council, either on 17 september or in october, will agree to give money to start the projects immediately, so that these countries will see that the european union, and the other developed countries, really mean what they propose and what they declare. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the community regulation on rural development and the european regional development fund offer the possibility of supporting national preventive measures. the commission will also use the possibilities offered by the community solidarity fund to support rehabilitation efforts in the member states. i should like to make this clear: i have heard that the commission must intervene immediately. we have two issues and it has not been fully clarified which of the two has been referred to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as regards the question of the mobilisation of the civil protection mechanism, i can tell you that the mobilisation is immediate, in real time immediately! i would like to mention the recent example of the fires in greece: in an hour after we received the official request from the greek government, italian planes were on their way to be there and operate the next day. the mobilization is therefore immediate. i also told you in my first speech that we were the first in the case of the tsunami and hurricane katrina to send experts to the disaster areas. the praise we have received for the work of the civil protection mechanism is very much in evidence of the work that has been done in recent years and of the potential it has, given that it has the powers and the means - mainly financial - to extend its work to the benefit of the european union, the citizens and the protection of the environment and the assets of european citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it is necessary to be able to react as quickly as possible, because the philosophy of the solidarity fund is precisely to meet the urgent needs or part of the urgent needs caused by the disasters. it is therefore logical that the commission should act immediately and that the member states, whether their central or regional administrations, should take immediate action to ensure that the money is disbursed. the commission has also proposed that the european social fund should be used to finance the construction of the new railway line, which is to be built in the next few years. this is reasonable, but it requires even greater flexibility. in conclusion - and i regret that i do not have more time to answer the very specific questions that have been raised - i would just like to say before i forget, because i have heard several speakers refer to the economic recovery programmes, that they are indeed a very good idea. why is it that the inclusion of projects to prevent natural disasters which can be roughly predicted to occur next year - it was said earlier that we discuss these issues every year - has multiple benefits: and why will they cause economic activity and create more jobs but also why will they prevent the loss of millions of euros to repair the damage that will be caused. so they are investments that will yield multiple returns and of course prevent the human cost of disasters. finally, i would like to stress that while the risks of forest fires or other disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, even military interventions - because the european union's civil protection mechanism has intervened for floods, for earthquakes and for forest fires, but also for population displacements, such as after the conflict in lebanon, and we have helped with great success in this regard - while these risks can never be completely eliminated, they can nevertheless be reduced through our cooperation and better collective response to such disasters. the commission is committed to strengthening the community's contribution to disaster prevention, preparedness, response and recovery in order to protect citizens and the environment. i would like to thank parliament again for its strong support for the need to improve disaster management for the benefit of all european citizens.
in writing. the scale of natural and man-made disasters in recent years is worrying, with consequences for both economic and social infrastructure. our response to this phenomenon, through the european union solidarity fund, is an important support in the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas and also in reducing the potential cross-border effects of disasters. however, i would like to point out the need to simplify and improve the transparency of the criteria for mobilising this fund so that the affected areas can benefit from community support as quickly as possible. we must also allow more regions to receive assistance by introducing a lower mobilisation ceiling. i also support the development of a european strategy to combat natural disasters and the strengthening of a common european force to respond to disasters in every corner of the union.
mr president, emergency fund contributions, as you know, recorded a decrease of eur 4.8 billion in the amount intended for the regulation of humanitarian crises in the poorest countries. this is the highest recorded historical gap between the funds needed and the funds collected from donor governments and, seeing these figures, we cannot help but think about the huge amount of money spent on bank bailouts. each government is responsible for solving its own country’s problems but, at the same time, it is unfair and indecent to overlook the fact that the developing countries are hardest hit by the economic crisis, even though these countries are less responsible for that crisis. the world around us teaches us not to expect too much from humanitarian appeals, especially during periods of recession. i would therefore like to draw your attention to the risk of neglecting the developing countries and of accelerating the growth in poverty and obtaining a boomerang effect in the shape of increased internal tension, bloody conflicts, humanitarian tragedies and massive migration, yet again debated by developed countries. considering these circumstances, i believe that efforts are required in one direction to assume our responsibilities. this requires boosting international aid and the need for more efficient development aid. i also believe we should focus on decreasing dependence on humanitarian aid for some of the beneficiaries. i would also like to ask the commissioner – taking into account what former commissioner michel previously said about the need to step up the involvement of the world bank and the imf – whether he intends to come up with a proposal for this istanbul summit. i do not want to close this speech without stating my appreciation for the start of your commission mandate. i have in mind the us-south africa summit, your visit to zimbabwe at the end of this week and the emergency assistance provided in recent days for the 100 000 victims of the floods in west africa. at the same time, i wish to point out that not only burkina faso faces natural disasters, but niger also needs international support. human lives are not just threatened by floods, but also by the insidious and permanent threat of drought. i also appreciate that you allocated eur 53 million last week to respond to the drought in sub-saharan countries. these are encouraging indicators which i hope will hope will influence the talks at the g20 summit in pittsburgh and the copenhagen conference, as these meetings are critical nowadays with the millennium development goals facing a major risk of failure.
in writing. the future enlargement of the schengen area to romania will increase the importance of securing the romanian external borders and thus the role of the frontex agency in romania. frontex needs to become increasingly involved in the process of optimising surveillance and control at the romanian external borders, which represent over 2,000 km of the eu's external border - the future schengen external border. in the last year, frontex has signed cooperation agreements with russia, the countries of the former yugoslav republic, ukraine and moldova. this is a step forward for the management of all borders. an examination by the european commission of the ways in which frontex could exploit this legal basis would be welcomed at this stage. the possibility of signing cooperation agreements with other third countries is another subject which the commission needs to explore. the achievement of as many such agreements as possible will contribute to the proper coordination of joint operations and thus to the respect of citizens' rights and freedoms and to the fight against cross-border crime.
mr. president, mr. buzek, you were talking about the slovak-hungarian dispute. this is not a slovak-hungarian dispute. there is a slovak-eu dispute because a country makes a mockery of basic european values. you are not negotiating between slovakia and hungary, you are negotiating between the european parliament and slovakia, because this country is violating signed, ratified documents and treaties. two, the silesian. i'm glad you brought that up. the union has many such territories, which have been owned by several countries over the last century. we hungarians split into ten countries after the first world war, seven of them eu countries. we're so grateful to be able to be together without guns and border changes. five official languages have been learned in transcarpathia in the last century. and why am i bringing this up? because in my country, where i live in szeklerland, transylvania, the romanian authorities of all times are still ashamed of our mother tongue and our symbols. but not only in the eastern bloc, but also in the west, there is a problem with european human rights values, so we are calling for not only a commissioner for minorities, but also a framework law for europe, which is binding on all european countries.
mr president, one could not ask a popular party politician to be a socialist, nor a socialist to vote for a popular party politician. it would be as simple as that, if it were not much more complicated. why do we feel somehow embarrassed and divided, however, when asked to support your candidacy? let us be frank. the list of disappointments and failures during the term of office of this commission is far too long, as is that of the unaccomplished promises and initiatives. consequently, our european citizens not only lost trust in the european institutions but also their hopes and passions. in complete fairness, we must also admit that you cannot be held solely responsible for that. the prime responsibility should lie with the national political leaders who always nationalised the achievements and europeanised the defeats, and who mostly gave priority to national egoism over european solidarity. many of your commissioners, socialists included, and provided by the same national leaders, are also responsible for lacking enough vision, courage, competence and will. thus, today we are not just confronting you but those nominating you as the only candidate for one of the most important european positions. obviously, they did not do so out of respect for your qualities and strengths, but for what they consider to be your weaknesses. not because they believe you will work for the achievement of an ever closer union with a powerful social appeal, but because they think you will call them individually to ask for their national blessing in advance of each european commission initiative. it is paradoxical, at least, that today the european parliament as a communitarian institution, rather than consolidating the democratic legitimacy of the future president of the communitarian institution that is the commission with an overwhelming ‘yes’, should, through this candidate, challenge the intergovernmental institution that is the council. therefore, at the end of this process of our vote for the college, it will be important if you could prove that you are one of us and not one of them.
mr barroso, i have read your document, but i will vote for you tomorrow because i believe that europe needs a religious and christian man like you, with this education. i believe that tomorrow you will be president of the commission, and i ask you, mr barroso, to pray to god to give you what he gave solomon: wisdom to lead the european commission. god help you!
madam president, mr president of the commission, increasing energy security is an important item on your agenda. the success of the negotiations with turkey, which led to the signing of the nabucco agreement, demonstrates that the european union is capable of representing its member states on the international stage, and i congratulate you on this achievement. i hope that this success will be repeated by the same methods and in securing the necessary gas in the conditions that there are countries in the area who want to make their sources available to this project. the future commission must build the internal energy market, effective competition and a different level of security of supply for all member states. the european agency for the coordination of energy regulators will play an important role in this respect. romania has submitted its candidature for the seat of this agency and i hope it will receive the necessary support. energy security also depends on the union's neighbours. support is needed for neighbouring countries that subscribe to european values and aspire to integration into the european family. i would like to draw your attention to the still fragile political situation as well as the difficult economic situation in the republic of moldova. urgent support is needed for the new political power in chisinau to get through this difficult situation. finally, i am confident that tomorrow's vote will demonstrate the stability of the european institutions and make a positive contribution to the outcome of the irish referendum.
member of the commission. − we follow very closely the effects of the financial crisis on our industrial sectors, including of course the textile and clothing sector, an important and strong industry in the european union. we reacted to this crisis by setting up the european recovery plan complemented by the european globalisation adjustment fund and the temporary community framework for state aid matters. these measures have also been relevant for the textile and clothing industry: for instance the globalisation fund support has been used to reintegrate workers laid off in mostly small and medium-sized enterprises of the sector in italy, malta, spain, portugal, lithuania and belgium. the textile and clothing sector comes from decades of managed trade. since early 2009 trade in this sector has been fully liberalised. the sector has lived up to the challenge of liberalisation and has undertaken a process of restructuring and modernisation, which has not been easy. the sector has reduced mass production and concentrated on products with higher value added and technological content. today european textiles are known in the world for their innovation and technical performance. the sector has been evolving successfully and has maintained a world-class export performance. market access issues are therefore a priority for it, and i am happy that our renewed market access strategy has been taken up by this industry with positive results. and of course in our trade negotiations, such as the free trade agreement with korea or the multilateral trade talks, we do take into account the sensitivities of the different industrial sectors, including the textile sector, and we aim for balanced deals.
member of the commission. − i understand very well the strength of feeling. this is a very important industry and i agree completely with david martin who has studied the detail of the deal with south korea. there is no doubt that we export far more clothing to korea than they do to us, so there are real opportunities in the market. it is absolutely right that in thinking about everything we do on trade we need to be mindful of the impact on industries, and that is exactly what we do. i would be more than happy to continue this dialogue and to provide more information about how we approach this, because i agree completely with the view that we have to support our industries through this economic recession, be mindful of the poverty and deprivation that can occur, and give new trading opportunities that will actually help boost those economies and those sectors. that is precisely what we are seeking to do.
member of the commission. − this is a very timely question and i could answer very briefly that the priorities are agreement in copenhagen for reduction commitments by developed countries, nationally appropriate mitigation actions by developing countries, and finance. i would, however, like to say a few more words. we now have less than three months until copenhagen and the climate talks have now entered into a crucial phase. with 250 pages of negotiating text on the table, the negotiations have not yet gathered sufficient momentum to come to an agreement that is ambitious and detailed enough. however, among most parties there is a sense of urgency and the willingness to focus on areas of convergence. the ultimate objective of the climate agreement is to keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius, an objective that was endorsed at the last g8 summit and the major economies forum. we need comparable and more ambitious emission reduction targets for the group of developed countries, which in aggregate today offer less than 15% reduction as compared with 1990. this falls short of the 25-40% reduction required by science. we welcome the fact that japan will strengthen its target. the eu has offered to take up a 30% reduction target if others make comparable commitments. developing countries should take appropriate mitigation actions to curb the growth of their emissions to 15-30% below business as usual by 2020. the eu proposes that developing countries (except least developed countries) design and implement low carbon growth plans containing their key mitigation actions. these plans would then form the basis for targeted financial and other support. adequate international financing will be essential to reach an effective agreement in copenhagen. money will make or break the deal. we need to mobilise private investment and promote the establishment of a robust international carbon market, but substantial public funding will also be required. in this respect, it is worth mentioning the global partnership on technology, which aims at doubling investment in low carbon technologies. furthermore, we have to strengthen support to the poorest and most vulnerable countries to adapt to the increasing adverse effects of climate change. last week, on 10 september 2009, the commission adopted a communication on stepping up international climate finance, which aims at speeding up the international negotiations. there is a daunting task ahead of us, with intense negotiations over the coming months – but failure is not an option.
mr president, commissioner, whenever we talk about climate change, we talk about adaptation measures, but also measures to reduce the causes of climate change. i would like to ask you in the context of the copenhagen conference: what is the priority of increasing energy efficiency for developing countries, but what are your discussions on the drinking water crisis and, of course, the food crisis?
member of the commission. − regarding the united states, the new administration has committed to reductions which are considerably more ambitious than those of the previous administration. however, they are still not as ambitious as those to which the european union has committed, and fall below the level that science is telling us is required in order to keep global warming below 2°c, as was agreed by all the leaders of the major economies in july 2009 in l’aquila, including the americans, the chinese and the leaders of the other countries that you mentioned. but the discussions in the united states are ongoing. the markey-waxman bill has been voted in the house and is now going to be voted in the senate. there are quite a lot of provisions which need clarification, and we have to see what the net result will be at the end, because this bill could be more ambitious than it appears to be today. for example, if the calculation of emission reductions includes those achieved by investments in ‘avoided deforestation’ – depending on whether this is calculated in the united states’ emission reduction target, or in the financing, or whatever – this is something which must be clarified in order to determine the comparability between the targets of the united states and the european union and other developed countries. the fact is that we are encountering a very positive attitude from this administration, we are working closely with them and we hope that together we shall work for a good result in copenhagen, namely an agreement with the elements that i described previously. regarding brazil, china, india, mexico and other developing countries, of course we expect from them a reduction in the rate of growth of their emissions of the order of 15% to 30% below ‘business as usual’. this is again what science is telling us is necessary in order to keep global warming below 2°c. reductions by developed countries alone will not suffice. some of these countries have already taken national measures which will lead to reductions in emissions, either by energy efficiency measures or investments in renewable sources of energy, but we need to intensify our cooperation with them – exchange of information, cooperation regarding technologies and transfer of technology – in order to achieve the reductions that we need. regarding cost reduction and, as you mentioned, energy efficiency, clearly all investments in energy efficiency are win-win-win situations. for example by reducing the consumption of imported oil, not only do you save money, and you do not pay it to the oil-producing countries, but you also reduce co2 emissions. in many countries, especially developing countries, where there are problems with air pollution – the air pollution problem in china, for example, is very well known – there will be the collateral benefit of improving air quality. concerning the related problem of water and food, both of these are objectives of the european union’s policies. we do support policies that will improve the sanitary quality and supply of water, especially in very poor countries. regarding food, we were very careful, for example, when we examined the biofuels directive, that there should be no competition between feedstocks for food and biofuel. we always take account of these important issues. regarding the impact assessment and the issues of competitiveness, these were discussed at length when we adopted the energy and climate package. many studies have been carried out not only by the commission but also by industry and by various sectors. the provisions that we have in our legislation will provide the assurances need to preserve the competitiveness of other european industries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises by, for example, granting free allowances, in many cases up to 100% of their emissions. so this is something that we are taking into account and of course the same applies when we go to 30%. additionally, if we go to 30%, it will mean that we shall have an ambitious agreement in copenhagen where all developed countries will undertake similar comparable reduction targets to the european union and developing countries will accept mitigation actions which will create a level playing field for the whole world. we shall then have comparable reduction obligations which will mean that the problem of competitiveness will not exist.
member of the commission. - mr president, the honourable member rightly notes the trend towards improvement in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which is due, among other things, to energy efficiency measures and the increased use of renewable energy sources in the transport and housing sectors. the commission notes that energy efficiency and renewable energy also serve other policy objectives, such as improving the security of the european union's energy supply, enhancing its competitiveness, creating jobs and improving citizens' living standards. in view of all these benefits, the commission continues to improve european union legislation and programmes in this area and to provide financial support.
given that we have a 10-year window to 2020, and that significant greenhouse gas reduction results can be achieved in the area of energy efficiency in buildings and in the area of transport, and given that we are in the midst of an economic crisis and people are losing their jobs, we must emphasise that the green economy can create millions of jobs. for specific situations we have to come up with specific solutions. so i hope that the solution will be that you, the european commission, together with parliament, will be able to find innovative solutions to increase investment in energy efficiency. parliament proposed interesting solutions, the increase of the european regional development fund from 2014, the creation of a special fund from 2014, the possibility of using a reduced vat, for energy efficiency and renewable energy. i'd like you to tell us more about that.
mr president, i welcome the idea of a strategy for the black sea region as a pilot project for the macro-regional strategies. initiatives of this kind allow the coordination of eu policy instruments in order to have a coherent, stable and sustainable development of the regions involved. on the occasion of the last council it was said that a strategy would have been developed for the black sea region by the end of 2009. this is an extremely important initiative as it can bring along harmonised development and prosperity for the region that, in comparison with the black sea area, is far more complex in terms of actors involved and relevance for the security, stability, energy and the environment. so i would like to ask the swedish presidency when such a strategy for the black sea region will be delivered, and when parliament will be informed and involved in this issue.
in writing. − at the end of the five-year term (2004-2009), the balance sheet of the european commission is not in president barroso's favour. abstention in this context appears as a necessity, since a negative vote would be a reckless political decision given the lack of alternatives, while a positive vote would be the equivalent of unconditional and unjustified confidence in an unsatisfactory programme. i think the support that the member states give him is irrefutable proof that barroso was not a strong president, but rather one for whom national interests came first, and it was national leaders who drew the lines of his mandate. the european commission needs a president who supports the development of community policies, who is an 'athlete' of integration and a promoter of the concept of a united europe. he should not be the advocate of the national interest. from a social democratic perspective, barroso has not kept many of the commitments he made at the beginning of his term in 2004. many of these, including the strengthening of a social europe, have been treated with very little interest by the commission. as a consequence, i have chosen not to vote for the re-investment of president barroso.
i am happy to speak here today about lifting visas for some of the balkan countries, and i will tell you why: my grandparents were born in macedonia, my father was born in albania, my grandmother in greece, my mother in bulgaria, and i was born in romania. god has brought me here today to ask mr olli rehn: is it possible to lift the visa requirements for albania, as promised, by the middle of 2010? it's a question i want answered because it's about my feelings, my connections, my family, my roots in almost all the balkans. god help you!
madam president, commissioner, the abolition of visas for some of the countries belonging to the western balkans package is a first confirmation of the european union's commitment to continuing the european integration process. i think the commission's proposal is unfortunately incomplete. citizens of albania and bosnia-herzegovina will not enjoy the same treatment, which will create differences between citizens in the balkans. i remind you that there is already a division between the previous generation, which enjoyed the opening of the former yugoslav republic to europe, and the current generation, which has not enjoyed equal treatment from the european union. but to implement this proposal, citizens of the countries of the former yugoslav republic who do not benefit from visa exemption will try to obtain a second passport from a country belonging to the former yugoslav family and which the european union accepts without a visa. we've seen this kind of scenario before with moldovan or georgian passports versus russian passports. i think the logical solution is to apply the same treatment to all the balkan countries and at the same time i ask the commission to consider including moldova in the south-east european countries package.
as a member of the european parliament and a socialist, i welcome the communication from the council and the commission on the visa regime for the three western balkan countries. it is a concrete first step towards their integration into the european union, a first achievement for future european citizens in the western balkans. but i appreciate that the lack of a clear perspective, a roadmap for bosnia-herzegovina, albania and kosovo should be of the greatest concern to us. i am not only discussing the public disappointment but also the risk to political stability in the three countries and, above all, i expect the european parliament and the newly constituted european commission to maintain a predictable agenda for the integration of the western balkans into the european union. it is the only way for us to fulfil the mandate for which we were elected to unite europe.
madam president, it takes no more than a minute to welcome a historic decision for both the balkans and europe. i believe that freedom of movement is the gateway to democracy and to knowledge. you have given these three countries a chance, but at the same time i believe that europe is also a europe of rules, which we as european citizens must all abide by. you made this proposal because you felt that the rules, the conditions that i imposed, had been met. i am sure that you will make a proposal for enlargement for albania and bulgaria when these european rules are met and, in your decision, you will certainly make a recommendation to speed up this process. i am one of those who do not believe that this is a matter of discrimination but, on the contrary, i believe that this process will be stimulated towards performance, towards achieving these conditionalities by the other two countries, because the three countries, since the decision, have proved that when they want a different status for their peoples, they were ready to do so.
i support the european commission's decision, which gives substance to the commitment made for years to lift the visa requirement for people from the western balkans. however, i believe that the citizens of the republic of moldova should enjoy the same rights of free movement in the eu as soon as possible. the european union must continue to develop its open door policy towards these countries, and the abolition of visas is an important step towards the european integration of these peoples. in addition to this decision, which will lead to the development of cross-border business opportunities and the free movement of persons, the european institutions should consider cultural and educational programmes that make european values known in these countries. in this context, ensuring border security and combating international crime must remain a priority. finally, i would like to reiterate that romania has not recognized kosovo's independence.
madam president, the liberalisation of the visa regime for the western balkan countries is important, as this measure matters most to ordinary citizens in the region and it will clearly show the benefits of the eu rapprochement process. i am confident that the conditional inclusion on the white list of albania and bosnia and herzegovina will prove to be a strong incentive for meeting the rest of the benchmarks on the road map. in our case, back in 2001, such a strong signal was sent, and in a couple of months we managed to fulfil all pending conditions. it is essential that albania and bosnia and herzegovina are included on the schengen white list as soon as possible, and the commission should provide all the necessary technical assistance to the authorities of these two countries in order to meet the necessary conditions in a short while.
in writing. the european commission and the european council are called upon to take a decision soon on the opening of the european area to the citizens of macedonia, serbia and montenegro. the moment is very important for over ten million europeans who want a visa to cross the union border. macedonia was with europe when europe needed it. and serbia understood that europe wanted her to join, but for that she had to make peace with her recent past. serbia has cooperated closely with international institutions such as the international criminal court and has taken responsibility for its past mistakes. it is time for europe to reward the efforts of these countries to align themselves with the democratic and economic requirements that characterize the union of 27. their journey has not been easy, and their efforts must be appreciated for what they have done. macedonia, serbia and montenegro have definitely entered the european game and therefore i believe that the eu should decide in favour of lifting the visa requirements for the citizens of these three countries. their governments have demonstrated that they share the same values as us, and a favourable decision would give new impetus to much-needed internal reforms in macedonia, serbia and montenegro.
in writing. i welcome the commission's initiative to abolish the visa system for citizens of the western balkans region, namely the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia and montenegro. such measures, which aim to bring these states closer to the eu with a view to integration, will significantly reduce the conflict-inducing potential of the area. for romania, which shares a border with serbia, such a move can only be an additional guarantee of friendly cross-border relations. it is a measure which will contribute to greater freedom of movement for the romanian population in romania and serbia and which will contribute to the development of trade relations between our country and serbia and montenegro. i am confident that the visa liberalisation for the three countries mentioned above is only the beginning of the process, with the measures later extended to albania and bosnia and herzegovina. although they do not meet the commission's requirements, i believe that through coordinated efforts the results will soon become visible. before concluding, i would like to stress that visa liberalisation and the free movement of people in the western balkans should not cause fear, but rather the conviction that the european security area is expanding to our benefit, to the benefit of all.
, in writing. the european union has grown stronger with each enlargement, not only by creating a common market for almost 500 million citizens, but also by ensuring stability in central and eastern europe. the balkan countries are an integral part of europe. the economic crisis or the ratification of the lisbon treaty should not delay these countries' accession to the eu. i am convinced that enlargement towards the balkans is a vital process which the union must sustain in order to strengthen its global role. it should not be forgotten that the integration of the balkan countries, together with the healing of the bloody wounds of the war at the end of the 20th century, ensures the stability of the european union and the prosperity of the region. the abolition of the visa requirement for serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a key step in the process of their accession, but also reflects the union's commitment to the region. the process must be pursued with purpose. this will allow bosnia and herzegovina, albania and, in due course, kosovo to benefit from the early application of the visa waiver, once the conditions are fulfilled. i unreservedly share the view of those european politicians who believe that the failure of the balkan countries to join would have unforeseeable, harmful consequences for the european union.
acting president of the council. - this is a very difficult question to answer. we will be at the g20 meeting next week to initiate the first such discussion on exit strategies. but it is clear that the situation is very different in the different member states, and therefore there will be slightly different timetables. i hope that we can start this process quite soon, but it also depends on the economic situation. we see light at the end of the tunnel, we think the worst is over, and then we need to move faster into this exit strategy thinking. if we do not do this eventually, it is the very most vulnerable in our societies who will suffer from rising unemployment, austerity and the risk of inflation. but exactly when that time will occur in the various countries is a little early to say today.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the council shares the member's concern about the results of the latest eurobarometer survey on awareness of important eu tools to combat unemployment such as the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is important to communicate to citizens what the eu is doing, both from the point of view of democracy and legitimacy. the council attaches great importance to the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund and we want them to be used effectively to combat unemployment. these two instruments are important financial tools to respond to the current economic downturn and to increase employment by introducing integrated flexicurity strategies and ensuring that skills are upgraded and better matched to existing needs. this was expressed by the council in december 2008 when it supported the rapid introduction of complementary measures to support employment by the european social fund. the council also called for improvements to the procedures of the european globalisation adjustment fund. therefore, a review of the original regulation was carried out to enable the fund to respond more effectively to support for workers made redundant, not only as a result of globalisation but also temporarily as a result of the financial and economic downturn. however, it should be noted that the implementation of these funds, including appropriate information and publicity activities, is the responsibility of the member states and the commission. in the case of the european social fund, member states shall provide information on operations and co-financed programmes with a view to highlighting the role of the community and the support from the funds. in this context, the european transparency initiative launched by the commission in 2005 can be mentioned. one of the main objectives of this initiative is to improve public information on the receipt of eu funds by publishing the names of beneficiaries of direct support under eu cohesion policy. in the case of the european globalisation adjustment fund, information on the actions financed should be provided by the member states. i would also like to remind you that the globalisation adjustment fund was set up relatively recently. the poor knowledge may be due to the relatively few cases where assistance from this fund has been granted.
president-in-office of the council. − yes, we have indeed discussed this in the council several times. there is a quite unanimous view that, for the sake of the quality of the project, there should be an element of national financing as well. therefore, the proposal to eliminate that has no support from the council. however, we are aware of the situation and of the problems. we have asked the commission to present an alternative proposal. i brought that up with commissioner samecki, who is responsible for it, just two days ago. they are working on such a proposal and will present it as soon as possible.
i regret that there is no support in the council for 100% funding when it comes to the european social fund to reduce unemployment, especially in this period of crisis. i would like to mention that in this period of economic crisis, there is, especially in the steel and shipbuilding industries, an increase in unemployment or even technical unemployment - not just redundancies, but technical unemployment. i would like to ask you, in view of the need to invest and to ensure the economic competitiveness of the european union in the future: what measures do you envisage to make it easier to use the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund to support these industries in economic difficulty?
many voices have called for a freeze on milk production since the beginning of the crisis. such a measure would not only be unsuitable but would be wrong, at least from the following points of view. the commission notes that the milk quota is not a fixed amount, but is fixed by the milk levy. the quotas went up, the production went down. i don't see where the connection is. the market itself is the explanation for the fall in prices. i think that imposing rigid quotas would cause prices to rise over time. the beneficiaries will again not be the producers but the processors and traders. if we want to limit production, we should encourage producers to eventually voluntarily give up animal husbandry through incentives, rather than through measures that could distort the market. what will happen in the event of a freeze in quotas when, for example, demand on the world market resumes? what could european producers do? because the milk production doesn't have a tap to turn on and off... (the president interrupted the speaker) i was saying, what could european manufacturers do in the event of a resumption of demand on the world market? because the dairy doesn't have a tap that we can turn on and off at will. if we cut back now, people would obviously stop raising cows, and it would be very difficult to restore the herd when we realize that what some people now imagine to be a good measure is actually a big mistake.
in writing. we are now experiencing the most serious crisis in the milk sector, generated by the global crisis and representing basically the gap between demand and supply. the fall in milk and milk products prices affects primarily low-income farms; therefore, i do not think that the quota system should be frozen in all member states, but that each member state should decide how to set its own quotas. the problem is that, compared to 1983-84, only one-fifth of the producers remain on the market and now we risk another series of farms closing. so we need to take urgent action to prevent that from happening. to stop the crisis in this sector we should provide for the following: the extension of advance storage measures for butter, milk powder and cheese, the acceleration of the creation of a dairy fund to meet the needs of small producers and young farmers and an agreement with supermarkets to establish a decent price for agricultural producers as well as a decent price at the point of sale.
mr president, everyone wants energy security, so why do we not have it? maybe it is because there are 27 interpretations of what energy security means. personally, i interpret it as meaning, among other things, diversifying the sources and moving away from our gas dependency on russia. we do not have to look too far for evidence of this, just at some of our member states which, being too far from russia to have a pipeline, do not have all the problems attendant on dependency. i think we should focus on lng, developing technologies, building lng terminals and bringing gas from all over the world. we should also contribute to establishing a global market for lng such as there is for oil and commodities. concerning the nabucco pipeline, i think the project should be quickly redesigned to take into consideration gas from various sources, and reconsider a shorter route which might lead from georgia, ukraine, under the black sea to romania. we just have to look at the map. the fact that member states have different interpretations of, or interests in, energy security is also proven by the fact that some countries involved in nabucco have also signed up for south stream, thereby lowering nabucco’s credibility and the chances for a common european energy policy. south stream definitely means increasing dependency on russian gas.
in 2008, the european union's trade deficit reached a record high of eur 242 billion, mainly due to the increase in the price of imported energy. the nabucco project will pass through turkey, bulgaria, romania, hungary and austria and will supply the union with 30 billion cubic metres of natural gas from the caspian sea annually. the €200 million allocated to the european economic recovery plan is insufficient. we ask that the union significantly supplement the funds allocated. desertec will use solar energy from north africa and will include a mediterranean plan to capture solar energy and build an electricity transmission network linking the european union to the middle east and north africa. the union needs to invest more in diversifying its energy supply sources. as rapporteur for the energy performance of buildings, i call on the union to provide innovative financial instruments to stimulate investment in the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency, in particular for buildings and transport.
nabucco will provide a significant part of the european union's gas demand. but more importantly, the political aspect: it will eliminate dependence on a single source. repeated crises have shown that the current situation, with russia as the only source and ukraine as the only transit country, does not ensure the security of europe's economy and its citizens. the development of new energy supply routes must be as important as the development of relations with russia. the delay in starting the nabucco project was unfortunately due to the individual interests of some member states. member states must understand that the benefits of this project will not only benefit the countries they cross, or the participating companies, but all european citizens whose welfare and security national governments must ensure. the mistakes that have delayed this project must not be repeated in securing the gas supply. there are countries in the region such as azerbaijan, turkmenistan, kazakhstan, iraq, iran, who want to participate with their reserves to supply the pipeline. the commission must repeat what it has done for the intergovernmental agreement, namely participate in the next negotiations and reach a positive result as soon as possible. if we do not do it, others will, and it will certainly not be in the interests of the european citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, it would be difficult for me to answer all the questions raised, but i would like to emphasise a couple of points. first of all, the policies we follow in the energy sector seek to promote the wellbeing of our citizens and our industry. what we are looking for is a secure supply of well-priced and clean energy. this is our overarching goal. secondly, we never make any side deals when we are discussing energy agreements. there are no compromises either on enlargement or on human rights. we work from the point of view that interdependence in energy supply is the most important thing and is beneficial for all – for suppliers, transit countries and consumers. it takes time to convince our partners, but that is the only way to achieve stability. thirdly, even if it sometimes seems that we are slow, i think that basing ourselves on the industry proposals, and on support for industry, is crucial because that makes us strong. perhaps it does not make us a speedboat in the energy ocean, but it makes for stability. when we make a change, we have a much broader basis for it, so we are much safer. all the projects have been well checked for cost efficiency and future viability. so i believe that is the right support to give. the next area where we have a weakness, and which we are continuing to discuss, is external energy policy and coherence. it is true that there is a lot of controversy – or at least perceived controversy – and, as a commissioner, i would definitely be happy to see a more coherent external energy policy. the motion for a resolution addresses exactly this issue because, although there is no in-built conflict between member states, there is perceived conflict. all the activities pursued by the member states also benefit the european union. so we should follow this up and really try to build a system where we speak with one voice, not only verbally but also in terms of the points of view that we want to emphasise. for this reason the second strategic energy review is still very important. all the points that we put forward in the second energy review are still there. at the same time, from the commission’s point of view, we clearly see that we cannot afford to move from interdependence to dependence. that is why we particularly support diversification projects like nabucco and lng – not that they completely change our relationship of interdependence with other countries, but they give us additional safety margins. so that is what we are doing, but at the same time we definitely take note of what happens in the energy world. regarding the point on nuclear energy, we have moved away from this option. we have adopted a nuclear safety directive but it is very much a national and very sensitive point. i really believe that, from the union point of view, we should build upon the cooperation of nuclear safety regulators and try to establish a safer and more coherent system. but i doubt that we could go further than that. last but not least, i really believe that these issues and debates very much help to shape energy policy, but there is no single instrument that provides for it. there are many instruments, and we will come back to this debate in the future. thank you very much for this debate. i will be very happy also to answer questions in the itre committee, or in any other committees that would like to discuss energy issues in more detail.
in writing. i welcome the progress made with the signing of the ankara agreement on the launch of the nabucco project and the protocol on the agreement on the launch of the desertec project. the nabucco project must be given priority as it is a solution to the problem of gas supply, which has become more acute in recent years. i know that while nabucco is such an important project geopolitically, there must also be strong business reasons for the partners in the project to make it a reality as soon as possible. the economic crisis that has reduced the money for investment by the participating companies, as well as some uncertainties about the supply sources of the pipeline, are obstacles that need to be overcome. the 200 million euros we are providing for the project are welcome, but in addition we need to step up political and diplomatic efforts with turkey and the countries in the region that supply gas. i also want to call on member states to show solidarity in order to prevent gas crises similar to those of recent years. we cannot afford to wait for the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the completion of nabucco while europeans risk running out of gas in the middle of winter because of the russian-ukrainian dispute.
in writing. as we are at the beginning of our mandate, i believe that one of the areas in which the european parliament must be actively involved is in ensuring energy security. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the nabucco project, which will help to ensure the energy security of the european union, as it will ensure that european consumers have access to alternative sources in a safe way. the signing on 13 july 2009 of the nabucco project agreement between austria, bulgaria, romania, turkey and hungary, representing the political commitment of the project's partner states to continue efforts to bring the pipeline to fruition, sent a positive signal to investors and natural gas supplying states. the countries involved in this project, together with the european commission, must continue to focus their efforts on attracting investment and securing viable suppliers for nabucco.
in writing. in addition to being the world's top gas exporter, russia has recently become the world's largest oil exporter, overtaking saudi arabia. this situation places moscow in a position of considerable influence, based on control of resources. but energy is a commodity, to which the principles of the market economy must be applied. energy must not be used as a tool of political pressure. the energy crises faced by europe have demonstrated the importance of diversifying energy sources. they also demonstrated the added value that nabucco represents in this respect for the whole of the european union. romania has been and remains a strong supporter of the nabucco project. in july, romania signed the intergovernmental agreement on the nabucco project, along with turkey, bulgaria, hungary and austria. we consider the conclusion of this agreement a success and an important step forward. a pipeline the size and ambition of nabucco will face many challenges before it becomes a reality. the only way to overcome these challenges is to persevere.
in writing. – we try hard to encourage a coherent energy policy, but such a policy exists and is fully implemented. there is only one small problem: it is not ours. it is russia’s. now, we have the french edf company signing into south stream. before that, we had the russians taking over the hungarian company mol’s interest in nabucco. and before that we had the austrian gas terminal in baumgarten being taken over by the mysterious centrex company. we need a clear, european energy policy, and we need it now. this is possibly our last opportunity to rally behind nabucco. otherwise, if the council and the commission remain neutral, they should be prepared for very cold winters and very hot politics.
mr. president, i voted for this resolution and i'll explain why. the european union is dependent on energy imports, consumption is constantly increasing, but natural reserves are limited. energy security requires both diversification of sources and transport routes and very efficient interconnection between member states, as is currently being done through eu-funded projects on the gas pipelines between romania and its neighbours, hungary and bulgaria. so i thought, well, here we are, but what else do we have to do? i would make a comparison, perhaps a bold one, but a simple one, with electricity. today, electricity comes into our homes without us knowing where it comes from. through a diversified natural gas network and multiple transmission networks, we must achieve exactly the same goal: gas security in any situation and regardless of the situation. that's why i supported and support the nabucco project but, in parallel, the shift towards diversification of renewable energy sources.
in writing. − the european union is currently experiencing one of the most serious crises in the milk sector, due to the increase in production and the significant drop in global demand. in view of the dramatic situation of european milk producers, it is necessary to continue the public intervention period (i.e. buying-in and storage of skimmed milk powder and butter) until at least february next year or until 2011, if deemed necessary. i do not think we can afford to see european farms disappear, because after a year we will have to import milk and milk products from outside the community, and if we take into account that the sanitary standards will in no way be what we want, we have far too much to lose. the report is welcome in this context, but to really solve the problem in the milk sector we must take related measures, because this stock involves the allocation of important resources and it may be that at some point the stock is useless. we need to invest now in sustainable agriculture that can provide the food we need, even in times of financial crisis, to prevent a food crisis later.
in writing. − we are at the beginning of our mandate, when we are setting the priorities for the future policies of the european union. i know that we are tempted to focus on some things that we consider to be of the utmost importance and to neglect others. in this respect, i would like to stress that we can give up a lot, but we cannot give up food, which is why agriculture must remain a priority for the eu. i believe that the amount of de minimis aid granted to farmers should be increased beyond the limit of eur 15 000 set by the commission and that an increased budget should be allocated to promote the milk and milk products sector. i strongly recommend supporting milk and meat farmers to stabilise markets by including them in the temporary crisis framework for state aid. direct aid schemes also need to take account of the particularities of the new member states, where the agricultural sector plays an important role in the national economy, and to ensure that support for agriculture is maintained, so as to overcome structural problems and achieve the convergence objective by increasing the level of development in the agricultural sector, closing the efficiency and competitiveness gaps with the old member states.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which sets a dangerous precedent, because the views expressed do not respect the principle of subsidiarity and interfere with the sovereign activity of the parliament of a member state, at a time when the law invoked had not even entered into force.
on behalf of the s-d group. – mr president, first of all, please let me express my sincere sorrow for the huge tragedy that hit taiwan on 8 august and in particular for all the people that were killed by the incredible energy of the devastation from this major disaster. morakot was the deadliest typhoon to hit taiwan in nearly 50 years, ravaging the island in early august and leaving about 700 people dead or missing, forcing the evacuation of thousands and burying hundreds of village homes in mudslides. on this occasion china showed great sensitivity by sending immediate aid to help taiwanese victims. not only was the chinese government ready to assist the island, but also private companies and organisations of different kinds including the association for relations across the taiwan straits and the mainland red cross society. also, the chinese population afforded help with fundraising events organised to relieve the island from the disaster. according to the last figures, the chinese mainland has so far donated to the typhoon victims about a cny 1 billion, which is the equivalent of nearly usd 150 million. an important role in this situation was played by the several hundreds of prefabricated houses that were sent from china to taiwan in order to put a roof over those who had lost their dwellings. i would like to underline the fact that the european union, attached to the one china policy, welcomes the help that china offered taiwan on this tragic occasion because this shows an improvement in the relations between the two territories, and it is clear that an improvement in such relations can lead to greater stability in this region. i also think, and with this i conclude, that, given the dimension of the disaster, the european union should make use of one of its core values – solidarity – and offer taiwan additional material and financial assistance in order to help with the massive task of reconstruction.
mr president, commissioner, the typhoon that hit taiwan has affected the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and destroyed tens of thousands of homes. the european union's humanitarian aid must be unconditional. the goal should be to help the victims as soon as possible. the european union is an active donor, working with non-governmental organisations and specialised un agencies to provide funds for medical treatment as well as logistical support and for the reconstruction of devastated areas. the copenhagen conference is talking a lot and we're getting ready to take some steps for a future post-kyoto agreement to reduce emissions. so we're talking more about mitigating the causes that lead to climate change. i would also like to ask that in the context of the copenhagen conference, special attention be paid to adaptation measures, as we will continue to face severe storms, floods, prolonged drought or forest fires. i also ask for support for the european union to provide humanitarian support for taiwan and for reconstruction and, in particular, for support for the population.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will take the questions in order. first of all, on the assistance which the commission is providing to taiwan to meet the ongoing needs of its people, which was the main point of the question by mr mann: taiwan has been informed of the commission’s post-disaster needs-assessment mechanism, but we have not received any requests so far. if such a request comes, we will take it into consideration. then, on the commission position regarding the current state of cross-strait relations, which was the question from mr boştinaru, the commission welcomes the rapprochement between taiwan and china during the last year. this has made it possible to improve cross-strait relations, reducing tensions between the two, and to promote bilateral issues such as direct air and sea links. we strongly support the bilateral discussions between the two parties that may allow further progress. we also welcome the chinese assistance. on the question concerning the participation of taiwan in the world meteorological organisation from mrs lulling and mrs andrikienė, and also from mr van baalen and mr tannock: in line with the position expressed by the european union in a statement issued in september 2008 and the eu’s one china policy, the european commission supports, where appropriate, the meaningful participation of taiwan in international organisations. we will continue to do so. on the questions from mrs lulling and mr mann, as to the assistance provided, the community’s civil protection mechanism provided assistance from sweden and poland. this help was received with gratitude which was acknowledged by president ma to commission president barroso. on the question concerning the visit by the dalai lama to taiwan in the aftermath of the typhoon, the visit by the dalai lama was a decision taken by the taiwanese authorities, and the european commission has no comment on it. on the question raised by mr belder, about the commission position on granting visa-free access to taiwanese visiting the eu: the commission is considering, within the framework of the revision of the appropriate legislation, the possibility of updating the list of countries and entities which may not be subject to visa requirements in respect of visits to the european union, especially the schengen area, and in this context it will also consider the case of taiwan. coming to the question by mr zemke on the issue of standard procedures in the event of disasters and how we will proceed in future in such cases, the commission focuses on two priorities: the first is continuing work on preparedness and response, and the second is the prevention of disasters. first, we deem it important to ensure the availability of eu assistance at all times. with parliament’s support, in 2008 we launched a pilot project and a preparatory action on the eu rapid-response capability. from this initial experience, if appropriate, the commission will present further proposals for the development of the eu rapid-response capability, funded from national resources earmarked for eu operations. second, we aim to have a comprehensive approach to disaster prevention at eu level. in february 2009 the commission published a communication on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. we would welcome parliament’s feedback on this communication.
author. − mr president, allow me to present the chamber with a few facts. only this year in january, stanislav markelov, the human rights lawyer who represented the assassinated journalist anna politkovskaya, was gunned down in the middle of the afternoon in downtown moscow. on the same occasion, anastasia baburova, a journalist who tried to protect him, was also shot and died. in july, natalia estemirova, a well-known russian human rights activist and journalist, was found dead in ingushetia after being abducted by armed men in neighbouring chechnya. less than a month later, another non-governmental activist, zarema sadulayeva, and her husband were abducted and killed. in august, journalist malik akhmedilov was shot dead shortly after leaving his home in dagestan. six outstanding journalists and human rights activists dead in less than eight months. these abductions and murders are only the peak of what results from the deterioration of the human rights situation in russia, where independent voices, including lawyers, journalists and other activists, face increasing violence, threats and unjustified prosecution. human rights violations in russia, and especially in north caucasus, can no longer be ignored. we cannot be so naive as to believe that super-powerful russia, with one of the strongest intelligence services in the world, is not capable of finding the perpetrators and bringing them to justice. we all, regardless of our political colour, have to understand that impunity for attacks against human rights defenders will contribute to more violence and a growing culture of lawlessness. the russian authorities must ensure the physical safety and freedom of movement and expression of human rights defenders, in accordance with the united nations declaration on human rights defenders.
i wanted to say first of all that i am disappointed that when the milk crisis was discussed the room was full and when human rights are discussed, i don't think there are 40 of us in the room. it's a shame that things are like this. i don't mean by this that an issue like milk is not an important issue, but an issue like human rights is extremely important politically for each of us. i would also like to say that this year, as you know, several countries in central and eastern europe mark the 20th anniversary of the fall of communism, and the idea that a power that was at the origin of these communist regimes has such manifestations of indifference to the crimes against human rights activists in our neighbourhood is unacceptable. i think that the break with totalitarianism must be clearly stated by each of us.
author. − mr president, first of all i would like to express my sympathy to the family of the victims of the car accident in which mr yevgeny zhovtis was involved. a human tragedy which unfortunately occurred where a man lost his life. at the same time, please allow me to express my concern in relation to the current situation of mr yevgeny zhovtis. indisputably every person who commits a criminal offence must accept that legal sanctions will be applied undiscriminatingly and mr zhovtis, as an outstanding human rights lawyer, knows this better than anybody. but at the same time we want to make sure that the kazakh authorities do not use this unfortunate situation to punish mr zhovtis for anything else other than the car accident in which he was involved. mr zhovtis must not be punished for his human rights activity and for being a very critical voice of the kazakh government. therefore, i think it is of the utmost importance that the kazakh judicial authorities carry out immediately, and with full respect for transparency and the rule of law, a second full and fair investigation into the circumstances related to the incident and to a review of mr zhovtis’ conviction and sentence.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has noted with concern reports of procedural violations during the trial of kazakh human rights defender mr yevgeny zhovtis, who has been convicted of manslaughter following a fatal road accident. as you are aware, the kazakh authorities have rejected claims that the judgment against mr zhovtis was politically motivated. the commission fully supports the eu presidency statement on this case at the osce permanent council of 10 september. given the seriousness of the alleged flaws in the investigations and the court trial, we call on kazakhstan, which is the incoming chair of the osce, to ensure that the appeal is handled with full respect for national law and international standards. the commission will continue to follow this case closely.
author. − mr president, muhannad al hassani is another human rights defender arbitrarily detained by the syrian authorities. he is another syrian political prisoner whose only guilt was his wish to protect the right of the people to freely express themselves, their right to engage in political activities and their right to a fair trial. for more than five years he was forbidden to travel. his office telephone communications and e-mails were under constant surveillance by syrian security forces. after weeks of increasing harassment over his role in monitoring the practices of syria’s supreme state security court, he was in the end arrested by the syrian state security and later charged with several criminal offences, all referring to his right to free speech. on the topic of arbitrary detention, let us not forget mr al-labwani, the outstanding human rights defender, who was sentenced to 12 years in prison for what the un working group on arbitrary detention considered to be ‘the peaceful expression of his political views’. the syrian government must free mr al hassani, mr al-labwani and the other political prisoners immediately and unconditionally and guarantee their physical and psychological integrity in all circumstances. the syrian authorities must put an end to all forms of harassment against syrian human rights defenders and civil society activists, in accordance with the provisions of the 1998 un declaration on human rights defenders.
in writing. − i support this approach and i am confident that this committee will make a pertinent analysis of the scale of the financial crisis which has affected all the member states and will come up with competent recommendations for the economic recovery of the european union. i was unable to vote on this text because i had a problem with my voting card.
we are delighted with the decisive victory of the supporters of the treaty of lisbon, which was confirmed by the irish referendum. we must congratulate and thank at the same time those who campaigned for the positive result in ireland. the irish people have decided, by their vote, to continue the process of developing the european union. they have allowed us to think about the future, at a time when the european union will be a strong voice in the conversation with the world's great powers, and that voice will speak for the 27 or more member states. discussions on a new basic treaty started in 2002. on friday, last friday, the process of adopting the new treaty was completed. i say it is over because i believe that the citizens of europe have expressed their views, directly or indirectly. poland has announced that it will ratify immediately. there is only one person left who thinks that he should block the ratification of this treaty, and that is because the parliament of the country he leads has ratified the treaty. i hope the president will heed the wishes of the citizens of all 27 member states, including the czech republic, and sign the treaty into law. the future entry into force of the treaty brings new responsibilities for the european parliament. parliament needs to prepare itself to be able to fulfil these responsibilities as quickly as possible, without causing delays in the legislative process. today's example, with the removal from the agenda of the two reports on the solidarity fund for the earthquake in italy, is a conclusive example. even today's screen example is another example of this. i hope the administrative services will give this matter at least the same attention as they have given to the statute for members.
mr president, the overwhelming irish ‘yes’ was not due only to a better understanding of the lisbon treaty, but also to the understanding of the fact that true respect must be mutual and compassionate. our irish fellow-citizens also realised that the european train does not wait indefinitely for those who miss their appointment with history. the czech case is a different one. the czech people signalled in an appropriate way its support for a more political and social, more efficient and more democratic europe. the government also supported the ratification of the treaty, and parliament ratified the treaty. it is therefore not for us to show respect for the czech people, but for the president of the czech republic to show respect for his people and its parliament. for us, it is important to draw the right line between what is right and what is abuse and to proceed in such a way as to show, and to prove, that for us the right ends where and when the abuse starts. we cannot accept being prisoners of filibusters. we should acknowledge that the lisbon treaty was duly ratified by all member states and start the establishment of the institutions on that basis. parliament should be fully involved in this process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am very pleased that the irish have finally approved the treaty of lisbon, because i am convinced of the importance of this document for the construction of europe. we need a new treaty to provide the european union with modern tools and optimized working methods to deal effectively with the challenges of the contemporary world. this treaty is first and foremost a step forward in the democratization of decision-making at union level, and we in the european parliament are among the first to benefit from the positive changes envisaged in this treaty. by extending the codecision procedure, the european parliament becomes a legislator on an equal footing with the council for 95% of community legislation. for example, in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on which i am a member, we will extend the codecision procedure from 40 to 80 areas of competence, which increases the democratic legitimacy of european legislation. i believe that the new legal basis will help to accelerate the process of economic development and to adapt the legal systems in the member states. i am also convinced that this will make it easier to achieve one of the main objectives of the european union, namely economic, social and territorial cohesion. i look forward to the completion of the ratification process and i look forward to the start of its implementation.
i join the long list of colleagues who have spoken before me in welcoming the decision of the irish electorate to vote in favour of the treaty of lisbon and in giving us optimism about the finalization of ratification. but this is only the first step on a path that i believe has three objectives. the integration of the new member states must be deepened, the barriers that have created a two-speed europe must be broken down and the process of enlargement of the union towards the balkans must be continued. the lisbon treaty is based on european solidarity and i hope that solidarity will really work and not just be a declaration of intent in the forums of the various european institutions. i believe that the economic crisis has shown that only solidarity can meet the challenges and that it is through a strong union that we can all be important actors in a global world. we've come a long and arduous way. we cannot afford to weaken the foundations of the european construction now. i firmly believe that reality will prove to the eurosceptics that we are stronger together and that we can gain nothing by returning to the geopolitics of the early 20th century.
mr. president, i have to go. the success of the irish referendum is the success of the european idea. thanks to what? one, the irish were given a guarantee, meaning that the majority took into account the wishes of the minority. true democracy is not just voting for the opinion of the majority, but also taking into account the wishes of the minority. this would also be necessary to protect europe's minorities. another reason for the success is that the "yes" campaigners did better than the last time the referendum was voted down. the union is not a union of denials, but of yeses. and last but not least, the economic crisis played a role in the successful vote. ireland would have been the same as iceland outside the union. in a crisis, we learn that we are stronger together, that unity and solidarity are better than oppression.
mr president, the new irish vote, this time approving the lisbon treaty, is indeed very good news. however, there are at least two aspects that require caution. the first is that the treaty still needs the signature of president klaus, whom we have only embittered with our reaction to his open scepticism and anti-europeanism when he spoke in this chamber last spring. i only wish that we were smarter than that. the second aspect where caution is required is the high expectation we place on the restart of integration, including enlargement, once the lisbon treaty is in place. the truth is that if we slow down it is not because of the absence of the lisbon treaty, which is only an alibi for it, but because of the negative effects of the current crisis, encouraging renationalisation of certain community policies and the centrifugal tendencies within the union. those have to be dealt with separately and properly if we want the lisbon treaty to be what we expect it to be.
as you know, romania is currently experiencing an unprecedented political crisis, which is adding to the economic and social crisis. a great electoral fraud is being prepared these days. it's about the election for the office of president of romania, which is to be held on november 22. all the elections in romania were rigged, but the robbery that is now taking place is unimaginable. i'm not accusing anyone, but absolutely outrageous fraud mechanisms have been created and perfected: false opinion polls, electoral tourism, supplementary lists, invalidated votes of living people and valid votes of dead people, huge sums of money and products for bribing poor citizens, convincing parents by bribing children from schools, computer fraud and many other illegalities. save the romanian people! sos the romanian people! the institutions of the council of europe, and first and foremost the european parliament, have a moral duty to help a member country to keep it in the orbit of civilization. don't let the balkan mafia blow up the generous project of the european union. i am sounding this alarm because the european union institutions are the last hope of the romanian people.
i just wanted to intervene to remind mr vadim tudor that the discussion here is about the irish referendum and the completely and completely untrue things he said have nothing to do with the subject. i would also like to congratulate the pro-european camp in ireland.
in writing. the irish vote is a decisive vote for europe. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will mark the end of a stalemate in which europe has been for some years. there has been much talk about the democratic deficit in europe, the distance between the european union and its citizens. it is about the inability of the european institutions to cope with the realities of a europe of 27 member states, a heterogeneous europe, in which many new entrants have different levels of development and economic typology. the inadequacy of the community institutional system, the need to increase the union's legitimacy vis-à-vis its citizens and the need to have specific instruments enabling the union to assume global responsibilities in a difficult economic context justify the determination of the member states to support the transition to a more democratic europe. the entry into force of the treaty will open the way to reforming the european bloc, providing institutional capacity to act, but addressing these challenges depends on political will. the successful implementation of the lisbon treaty therefore remains a key issue.
in writing. the european union is moving rapidly towards the implementation of the most important reform in its history: the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. ireland said 'yes' to him, 16 months after the big 'no' that worried all the chancelleries of europe equally. the union now expects the polish president to ratify the treaty quickly, as he promised, and the czech constitutional court to do what the czech president refuses. the union will become a more flexible and responsive institution, but in addition the treaty offers a breathing space for aspiring member states. the western balkan states have strongly welcomed ireland's ratification of the treaty. the union's voice will become stronger internationally as its institutions are established and reformed. the union will no longer be just a common market but a power in international relations. the power is given by the 27 member states, which could become more in the not too distant future. the year 2010, when we hope the treaty will come into force, could be a year of rebirth for the union, which has known, throughout its history, to reinvent itself continuously.
in writing. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will greatly simplify legislative procedures, the most important progress being the extension of the areas where decisions are taken by the eu council by qualified majority (instead of unanimity) and the extension of the areas where the european parliament has a co-legislatory role alongside the eu council. these innovations will greatly simplify decision-making at european level, especially in areas such as the structural funds and the cohesion fund, which are very important for romania, which needs this money to develop. in addition, it is a welcome fact that the european parliament will acquire greater powers, for example in the field of agricultural funds, an area so heavily affected by the economic crisis we are going through and, at the same time, an area where concrete and rapidly effective measures are needed to improve the lives of farmers and to ensure the food security of our citizens.
in writing. the lisbon treaty has put european issues on the agenda of national debates in national parliaments. in practice, each legislative proposal from the european commission will be examined by national parliaments to validate compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. if one third of the national parliaments refer the infringement to the commission, the commission is obliged to review its proposal. if one half of the national parliaments consider that their subsidiarity is being infringed, the european parliament and the council are obliged to decide whether this principle is being respected or not. after adoption of a european legislative act, national parliaments may, within two months of its publication, apply to the european court of justice for its annulment. given the length of the legislative process at european level, the inclusion of european issues on the agenda of national debates allows member states to receive signals and development directions in time and to be able to build at the same time as the eu. the lisbon treaty reaffirms that the eu economy is a social market economy and gives the union new competences in areas such as climate change and energy policy. these competences are becoming particularly important in the context of the eu's energy dependence on third countries.
i would like to say that i too find the violence in guinea absolutely reprehensible. i see that two hours ago, the french foreign minister said that dadis camara is suspected of participating in the decision of the massacre, which is very serious. of course, the source of the tensions, beyond the violence that is condemnable, the source of the tensions is that dadis camara wants to perpetuate himself in the leadership of guinea and does not want to keep his promise not to participate in any way in political life and i think that international pressure in this regard must be very clear. i also welcome the fact that the president of burkina faso, blaise compaoré, who has a great deal of experience in negotiating and mediating african conflicts, has been mandated to intervene in this case and i believe that he should be supported by our diplomats.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, again my thanks to the european parliament for putting this on the agenda. it is a very serious subject and, as i hope you understood from my introduction, we share your concerns about the horrible breach of human rights that has happened in conakry. there are concerns and worries about people still being detained, and we have asked for a complete investigation of what has happened and the release of the prisoners. i think we can say that the european union has been extremely clear. the events have been condemned by mr solana, mr de gucht, the presidency and now, as i know, also by a declaration of the acp group in the european parliament. it is very good that the european union is unanimous, concrete and concise in its condemnation of these horrible events. we are also acting in very close cooperation with other actors in this, so that the international community can condemn and act in a very coherent way. that is the only way we can really exercise pressure. we have the international contact group. there has been the appointment of the mediator, the president of burkina faso, which is very good, and he is a member of the contact group. together with the contact group, of which the eu and the us are members, we have – in answer to your question, mrs lövin – called for captain camara’s resignation. the whole world community has asked for that to happen. we are also open to answering other questions and to discuss sanctions. we think it will have more effect if we do it together with the international community. there are different options on how you can target individuals and so on in this, and we need in the coming days to further discuss with international actors how we can coordinate those sanctions in order for them to have the maximum effect: with the african union, with the contact group, with the us, etc. we have also, as i said, opened consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, and we have frozen all eu development aid, apart from the humanitarian aid and the assistance to the democratic transition. on fisheries – whether that can be part of it or not – i hear very clearly what you say. i can only encourage you to continue the discussions with the commission. it is the commission which is responsible for eu fishery policy. we are also discussing this with the commission, and i am sorry they are not here right now. but you can be assured that we will keep on working with the international community to continue with the pressure and to push for a full investigation and, hopefully, also one day for free and fair elections in guinea. my thanks to you and to the members for this debate.
we welcome the signing of the nabucco project agreement on 13 july in ankara. gas is not the only energy source for european countries. we must have the same approach to supplying europe with oil by promoting a southern corridor. we have a project on the table that could be as strategically important as nabucco. it is the pan-european oil pipeline constanta-trieste. this pipeline will link the oil resources of the caspian sea, through the georgian terminal at supsa and then on through the port of constanta, on the pipeline, to trieste. ensuring the energy security of our states and citizens can only be achieved by diversifying sources and routes of hydrocarbon supply. in this respect, romania has undertaken to develop a port terminal at constanța, capable of receiving liquefied natural gas, which it will then distribute to other european consumers.
last december, the european union made a historic commitment to reduce carbon emissions, confirming its leadership in efforts to combat climate change. we can be proud of the role played by the european parliament in adopting legislation that contains not only reductions in pollution levels but also concrete measures to achieve these commitments, resulting in a stabilization of global temperature rise. in the case of the copenhagen negotiations in december, we must get firm commitments to reduce emissions and financial support to third world countries for climate change mitigation and adaptation. but climate change legislation cannot be passed in the united states before the copenhagen conference, so the obama administration will struggle to lead the negotiations, but without a clear mandate. the common position of the european union must not be wasted. it's crucial for us to act with one voice and encourage others to join us in the process of reducing emissions.
the subject of my speech today is the most important event that has taken place in the european union in recent times, namely the positive result of the referendum held in ireland to ratify the treaty of lisbon. i would also like to join my colleagues who have had the opportunity today to congratulate the irish people on this very clear signal to decide on the option of continuing european integration politically. it has not been subject to populist speeches which drew attention to negative consequences because it is very clear that this treaty will bring more efficiency and democracy to the functioning of the european institutions. i also believe that the czech president has an obligation to respect the commitments made when this treaty was negotiated and not to unjustifiably obstruct its implementation. we need this treaty to close the institutional chapter, at least for a while, and to focus more on the union's policies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
mr president, being a hungarian mep coming from romania i will not speak today about the slovak language, even though i am afraid i would have good reason to do so. instead i want to speak about our decision today to set up a special committee on the economic crisis. this decision proves the responsibility of our parliament in the biggest challenge currently confronting europe. the special committee will reaffirm the european union position concerning the new global financial governance, but will also interact with the member states, aiming at best implementation of community measures meant to generate sustainable economic growth. it is vital for the new member states in the central and eastern part of europe to receive necessary support for economic recovery. coordination of recovery efforts should be more efficient, and enhanced coordination is not only the responsibility of the governments but also the responsibility of brussels. we are facing a most complicated economic perspective accompanied by the imminence of serious social unrest. that is why the european union has to put forward the most efficient response to the deteriorating situation in the region and this house must show leadership on this issue.
in the context of the current economic crisis, the european funds are essential elements in achieving the convergence objectives for the less developed regions of the member states. from this statement to the actual absorption of funds by the beneficiaries there is a long and not very simple path, being burdened by a series of european bureaucratic rules. at a time when we, the european parliamentarians, are signalling the effects of the economic crisis and taking measures to speed up and simplify the rules for accessing funds, the member states are not benefiting quickly and fully from these measures. i would like to give a concrete signal from romania. projects financed by the european social fund to improve working conditions for workers and to increase the number of employees in some companies are still running with difficulty. i would like to urge the implementation of measures to simplify the procedures for accessing funds which facilitate job creation in europe's regions.
mr president, the role of the european parliament - and i quote the president of the house - is to mediate, if necessary, disputes between parties, between countries. parliament should not only play the role of firefighter, but also play the role of fire prevention. for example, adopt a minority framework law that guarantees the rights of minorities. minorities have a right to feel safe. such a framework law helps to ensure that minorities are not exposed to the whims of governments, extremist organisations, phenomena such as the slovak state law that punishes the use of the mother tongue. it is unacceptable that minority organisations are banned in the union, that bilingual signs are painted, that extremist organisations organise provocative anti-minority demonstrations. the ep's role is to implement legislation that protects human rights, prevents discrimination and guarantees that minorities can live as full human beings in their homeland.
the european council of june 2009 requested the european commission to develop and present a strategy for the danube region by the end of 2010. the european commission and the member states should adopt a common european strategy to unify existing initiatives on the danube and to increase the importance of the river within the european union's policies. the danube strategy should focus on common objectives and projects in the fields of transport, energy, environment and cultural cooperation. last year, the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism organised a delegation to the danube region to learn about and promote the potential of the river within european policies. one of the main conclusions of this delegation was to create an intergroup in the european parliament for the promotion of the danube. by creating this intergroup, the european parliament reaffirms its commitment to actively participate in and support both the development of the danube region strategy and its implementation.
the last two waves of enlargement of the european union have brought many benefits to both the old and new member states, but have also posed a number of challenges. two years after joining the european union, romania is among the countries with the lowest success rates in accessing european funds. the procedure for accessing european money is quite cumbersome and complicated. the structural and cohesion funds are financial levers that can help to boost the economy, especially in the current crisis. in this context, i believe that we need simple rules for access to structural funds, so that european money reaches the beneficiaries as quickly as possible. particular attention must be paid to eliminating all these difficulties, which block access to community money and discourage people from obtaining european financial support. it is necessary to encourage efforts at european level to simplify the procedures for accessing funds for romania in order to accelerate their implementation and rapid absorption.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, as this is my first speech to this new parliament, i would like to congratulate you on your election as vice-president. as regards the question by mrs weber, i speak on behalf of vice-president barrot and i would first like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the libe committee for the excellent quality of their work. the commission welcomes the report and supports some of the proposed amendments. the commission is generally in favour of the proposal put forward by five member states, although the text is not as ambitious as it would have liked. in particular, the commission regrets that the scope of the framework decision has been limited to cases where the same person is subject to parallel criminal proceedings for the same offence. the commission also regrets that the obligation to refer a case of conflict of jurisdiction to eurojust has been limited and that the list of criteria to be taken into account in determining the best placed court has been removed from the operative part of the text. these amendments have weakened the text of the proposal, removing most of its added value. in the commission's view, the proposal should be seen as merely a first step towards the prevention and resolution of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings and should be replaced by a more comprehensive proposal at a later stage. the commission will also consider this in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty in this area, which i hope will come into force as soon as possible.
rapporteur. − madam president, the positive result of the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty brings us one step closer to that moment in time when the european parliament will not only be consulted by the council, but will have codecision powers on matters which are now under the third pillar. the question then is: why is the council so keen to adopt legislation a few months before that date when, moreover, that legislation does not represent a step forward in establishing a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice? the truth is that this proposal does not help prevent any conflicts of jurisdiction, and does not provide for any settlement when such situations arise. this could be done, for example, by reducing multiple jurisdiction and by allocating jurisdiction to member states, as was done through various regulations on civil law, with the obligation to mutually recognise the decisions that followed from that allocation of jurisdiction. instead, this framework decision is limited to a duty of member states to inform one another and to enter into direct consultation in order to reach ‘consensus on any effective solution aimed at avoiding the adverse consequences arriving from parallel proceedings’. that is why i was not surprised when, during the exchange of views in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs a few weeks ago, the commission – although supporting the current proposal – mentioned it would come up with a new proposal at a later stage. that is also why i am not surprised by what the commissioner has said this evening. i thank the commission for being so honest about the proposal, but have to say that i consider this proposal and the entire procedure for its adoption a good example of how we should not legislate within the european union. i strongly believe that what is important is to protect our citizens’ rights and not just to tick boxes. by the way, the council is not present today, although the presidency was one of the initiators of the proposal. i have to stress that within the european parliament we took our work very seriously. we worked in good faith during the last mandate and this one, and would hope to be sending a message on our views on having more effective legislation. what i welcome about this proposal is that the current text explicitly refers to the principle of ne bis in idem. this was due to the exchange of views we had with the council and the commission, as the original text proposed did not mention it at all. the report i drafted pays particular attention to three aspects. firstly i believe that the protection of persons formally charged must receive the highest attention and consistent procedural safeguards have to be provided for. these should include the right of the formally charged person to receive enough information for him or her to have a basis upon which to challenge any solution which does not appear to be reasonable. secondly, with regard to the details concerning the person formally charged, which national authorities exchange through the notifications, i support the idea that it is important to ensure an adequate level of data protection and that it should be specified in this framework decision what kind of personal data is exchanged. last but not least, i strongly believe that the involvement of eurojust in the decision on the choice of jurisdiction is of the utmost importance. in my opinion, eurojust should be involved from the earliest stage because of its coordinating role and because of its more and more relevant tasks. i am among those who consider that we created this agency not only to show that we are concerned with combating transborder crime, but because we need strong instruments. eurojust has already proved in the years since its establishment that it deserves our trust. that is why i am surprised by the reluctance shown by the council and by some colleagues in the european parliament. having said that, i would like to call on the european commission to present at the earliest opportunity a proposal completing this framework decision on the conflicts of jurisdiction. i will finish by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for the way they worked on this report.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the very good cooperation we have had in this matter. as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group, i would like to present the ppe position on the framework decision as it is, and of course on the amendments. the ppe position differs from that of the rapporteur on two matters. the first is the degree of involvement of eurojust in direct communication between the domestic authorities. while the rapporteur asks for mandatory involvement of eurojust in every case from the initial stage of communication, we believe that the referral to eurojust should only take place when national authorities fail to reach consensus because, after all, as it is now this initiative is about direct communication. we too would like to strengthen eurojust and its part in the judicial cooperation. our position on this matter only seeks to prevent bureaucracy. if there is a possibility of the two parties reaching consensus, why introduce another body and procedure? we do believe and agree that eurojust must play a role when the parties fail to reach consensus, but where there is not a problem we give the national authorities the flexibility to have direct bilateral contacts, which also boosts public trust. the second matter relates to another proposed amendment which extends the competence of eurojust beyond that provided in article 4 of the eurojust decision. we believe that this matter, if it is to be discussed, should be approached in relation to the eurojust decision via the main door. this is why we will vote against these amendments. however, there are no key points, so we will vote for the report as we want to encourage the exchange of information between national authorities. we also support the oral amendment tabled today. finally i would like to stress that the ppe is keen to see judicial cooperation enhanced, and supports a european policy which should help citizens have the same guarantees and procedures in all member states.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague the rapporteur on her work and to underline that joint action at european level to strengthen freedom, security and justice is essential. i welcome this initiative to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, because member states often face problems with the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters. there must be no differences between member states as regards the protection of accused persons, and we should, in our approach, ensure that anywhere in europe, any accused person can benefit from sound procedural guarantees. in exchanges of information between countries, account should be taken of the need to protect personal data and to clearly establish the nature of data that may be transmitted. i would stress the importance of direct consultations between the authorities of the european union countries, in order to eliminate parallel procedures and to avoid situations where the competent institutions of a given state are subjective in drawing up judgments on the charges brought against a citizen, often for lack of information. we should also propose in the future to strengthen the role of eurojust in resolving possible conflicts and to implement closer cooperation between member states for the benefit of citizens.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs on the work they have done, and in my speech i would like to highlight two of the issues that the shadow rapporteur from my political group, mrs macovei, has mentioned. firstly, the question of public confidence in the judiciary, which i think is very important, given that our democracies, the democracies of the member states, cannot be thought of apart from this confidence in the judiciary and i believe that everything must be done to ensure that it is always a presence in our public life. secondly, i would like to stress the need to de-bureaucratize the administration of justice; while the exchange of information between authorities is important, it is equally important not to bureaucratize the judicial process, because this diminishes the protection that individual freedom must enjoy.
i congratulate the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur on their work and welcome the initiative on a framework decision on the prevention and settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. i would like to make an important point: this proposal for a framework decision deals exclusively with positive conflicts of jurisdiction. no provision is made for negative conflicts of jurisdiction. i believe that eurojust's involvement should only follow where the parties do not reach a common agreement. the principle of this directive is to establish direct communication between the competent authorities of the member states. furthermore, it is in the interest of the person concerned that the procedure be as short as possible in order not to be investigated for the same offence in two countries.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, it is true, as i have already said, that the proposal is not as ambitious as the commission would have liked, as the rapporteur has also pointed out in her speech. however, the commission supports it as a first step in preventing and resolving conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. at the moment, of course, it is impossible to say when the second stage will be initiated. the decision will be taken later, depending on developments concerning the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which i hope with all my heart, of course. the content of this potential new initiative will depend on the outcome of the impact study to be carried out by the commission. of course, i'll pass along all your comments to vice president barrot. i thank you again for holding this debate.
rapporteur. − madam president, the political groups in this house have made it pretty clear what their position is on this report and on the sensitive issues surrounding it, and particularly eurojust. indeed, it seems that the most important and most sensitive issue concerns where we stand on eurojust. however, i feel much more confident now about the future of this framework decision after hearing commissioner tajani speaking, on his own behalf and on behalf of vice-president barrot, about providing us with something more powerful that would clearly address not only positive conflicts of jurisdiction but also negative conflicts of jurisdiction.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i thank mr simpson and the whole transport committee for bringing such a delicate matter to the attention of parliament. this question allows me to solemnly reiterate what has been said in recent weeks about the inconvenience caused to many european citizens, to many passengers, by the failure of certain airlines. as this parliament knows, the protection of passengers in all areas of transport is a real priority for me. i said that at the hearing when parliament decided to give me its confidence, and i want to say it again tonight. i think we all need to be mobilised in the search for a concrete regulatory solution, also to avoid - as president simpson has argued - the disparity between a passenger who has bought a simple airline ticket from a company which then goes bankrupt and a passenger who has bought it as part of a wider package holiday. i think the first thing to do is to use the instruments we already have. so all regulations, even if they are incomplete and even if they cause disparities, must in any case be used in the best way by citizens. in order to optimise the instruments at our disposal, the network of european consumer protection centres was set up to advise consumers on their rights and to collect complaints, for example, in the event of the bankruptcy of sky europe. but we also need to protect passengers better when they are faced with a failure. passengers with reservations that expire should be entitled to a refund and, in some cases, repatriation. it is a complex problem, which requires us to consider carefully the measures to be taken. the commission has already started work on a concrete response to these questions. at our request, an important study has already been carried out on the consequences of failures in the air transport sector, especially as regards passengers. it is a detailed study, which gives a concrete picture of the consequences of failures and their impact on over 700 million passengers transported each year throughout the european union. the study presents several possible scenarios for defining the most appropriate solutions to the various problems raised by bankruptcies, in particular in terms of reimbursement and repatriation, as mentioned earlier. this has enabled various scenarios to be worked out for both reimbursement and repatriation, ranging from the setting up of guarantee funds, to the development of compulsory insurance schemes for passengers or airlines, and finally to the hypothesis of introducing targeted changes in national insolvency rights. in february of this year i handed the study to mr costa, then chairman of the tran committee. on the basis of this study, the commission is now continuing its analysis of the various possible options, focusing in particular on the impact on consumers and the air transport sector. in the course of the analysis we will take account of all elements of the debate and will use the input of all interested parties. in this connection, the commission will launch a wide public consultation on air passenger rights in the coming weeks. in this context, and without underestimating the differences and specificities of all-inclusive travel, the commission will also take account of the impact assessment currently under way on the revision of directive 90/314 on all-inclusive travel. this is because one of the main objectives of the public consultation will be precisely to define the consequences of airline failures for passengers and possible solutions to remedy them. of course, in addition to the public consultation, there will be a study to analyse the impact of the various possible solutions. of course, parliament's contribution will be decisive for me and - given the commitment with which the committee on transport has mobilised today with this oral question - i believe that in the coming weeks we will be able to cooperate fruitfully in order to identify together the most appropriate solution to meet the needs of passengers and to ensure, in the best possible way, their rights in the event of the bankruptcy of airlines.
on behalf of the epp group. in the context of the global economic crisis, fluctuating fuel prices and increasing competition, airlines, especially low-cost carriers, are facing major difficulties. increasing ticket prices is not an option in the current situation, and the increase in fares by some low-cost carriers may lead to an even sharper decline in passenger numbers. the financial losses of airlines in 2009 will be approximately $11 billion, and the situation will not recover until the next three years. in this context, though unwelcome, there is the situation where airlines go bankrupt. in the event of bankruptcy due to the lack of adequate legislation, there is no practical way to recover the countervalue of tickets or to obtain the repatriation of passengers left outside their country of residence. the counter-cost, albeit modest, support provided by european airlines to the passengers of a company in bankruptcy, as demonstrated in the sky europe case, although meritorious in itself, offers only a temporary solution to overcome a one-off crisis. on the other hand, the economic crisis itself cannot be considered as a permanent excuse, since airline failures have already occurred before the crisis. tighter controls on the financial position of air carriers, especially low-cost carriers, tighter controls on mergers and takeovers, and the establishment of a strong guarantee fund are some of the solutions that could, in the long term, provide protection for passengers in the event of an airline's bankruptcy.
an effective internal market requires a consumer protection policy at community level. over the years, the european union has acted and taken measures to increase consumer safety in areas such as package holidays and travellers' rights. however, a large majority of complaints received from european consumers relate to the non-respect of air passenger rights. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. in these cases, for consumers, problems arise when the flight is not operated as planned. although the european union's council directive 90/314 on package holidays protects passengers in the event of the insolvency of the tour operator, it does not protect them in the case of airline tickets sold individually. in addition, in the event of denied boarding, compensation is excluded in the event of extraordinary circumstances, including the bankruptcy of the airlines. according to a recent study, the number of bankruptcies of air carriers in the european union for the period 2000-2008 amounted to 79. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. so how can we do better to protect passengers in such situations? perhaps a system of passenger insurance to cover these situations, a more rigorous system of supervision, the development of legislative provisions to ensure compensation for passengers in such situations.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner mccreevy, whom i am replacing in this house tonight, the legal affairs committee and mr lehne for raising these issues. on a personal level - having been a member of this house for almost 15 years - i am very pleased that parliament is exercising its supervisory function, because it is a right stimulus for the commission to work better. as regards the first two questions, i am pleased to inform you that the work on the report requested is at an advanced stage. the commission has requested an external study, which should be ready by the end of this year and which will provide a solid factual basis for the preparation of the report. the commission will analyse this study in depth and listen carefully to the views of interested parties. the report could therefore be published in the second half of next year and will be sent to the european parliament and the council. of course, the exact timing and content will be decided by the next commission. the report will contain an analysis of the four possibilities for amendment expressly provided for in article 69 of the regulation and, at this stage, the commission has not yet taken a position on this or any other possible amendments to the statute. we must await the results of the external study and further consultations and monitor carefully every factor and, if necessary, also the possible outcome of the negotiations on the statute of the european private company. as regards the third question, the timing and content of any further action to be taken in the future in the light of the results of the analysis carried out will, however, have to be decided by the new commission, which i am convinced will be very attentive and interested in hearing parliament's point of view before adopting any further new measures.
the idea of a european society dates back to the 1950s and was taken up again after the entry into force of the treaty of rome, as part of the common market objective. the current status of the european company has symbolic value, of a european enterprise and enjoys a certain freedom of establishment and mobility. many companies use the european company status to show their uniqueness as european, and it is also an essential tool for companies looking to develop their cross-border merger strategies. one of the main advantages of a european company is that its registered office can be transferred from the member state in which it was incorporated to another member state without the need to dissolve the company or create a new legal entity. however, european society is far from the initial objectives of an autonomous status governed by a single legislation. the practical functioning is therefore deficient. legislation is not uniform and depends on the particularities of national legislation, and the mobility of a european company is restricted by provisions prohibiting the establishment of a registered office or a head office in different member states. one of the community's fundamental freedoms is thus restricted, namely the freedom of movement of companies. the european commission's report on the application of the regulation, which the commissioner mentioned, i think will have to include a study on the possibility of having the head office and registered office of a european company in different member states and will have to consider a revision of the regulation to go further towards creating an autonomous statute for this type of company.
freedom of the press is never sufficiently protected against abuse. every time a president or a prime minister of a member state of the european union attacks journalists just because they disagree with him, the european commission, the european parliament and each of us must respond. in italy, a prime minister is trying to intimidate the opposition press by any means. in romania, a president is trying to discredit the press and journalists who criticize him. in both cases we are talking about the excesses of politicians who consider themselves above the law. in romania, the latest news shows not only a president who insults, robs and slanders journalists, but also other abuses of power by a power that in the context of the presidential elections seems to be willing to do anything, including breaking the law to help the current head of state get re-elected. that is why i ask the european commission, as i did on 23 september, to publicly condemn these behaviours, both of the romanian president and of the italian prime minister.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a dialogue between italians: this debate is first and foremost about europe. mr berlusconi is certainly not the only one who breaks basic rules in his dealings with the media. traian băsescu has frequently behaved in an aggressive, undemocratic and intimidating manner in the media, using language which cannot be reproduced in the european parliament. the european charter on freedom of information is becoming another nice piece of paper, and european heads of government and state will continue to behave in this way. we, the european union, are becoming ridiculous by analysing and criticizing freedom of information in various countries in asia and africa, while in the european union it is not protected and respected. it therefore proposes to combat by the commission's own means and authority monopolies and to apply with european authority the freedom of information charter.
in writing. freedom of expression is one of the democratic criteria which we have placed at the heart of the european union. each member state must take responsibility for complying with the copenhagen criteria, including the political criterion. i believe, however, that the european institutions should not be used in any way as a forum for settling internal political disputes. we are discussing today matters which are internal policy of a member state, as long as it has functioning democratic institutions. i personally declare my unconditional support for absolute freedom of the press, freedom that is also correlated with the utmost responsibility of each newsroom to correctly inform the public. the assembly called for stricter regulations on media concentration and pluralism at community level. but let us not forget that the member states have spoken out against such a directive on the grounds that it does not fall within the eu's competence. the european commission has, however, published a list of indicators on media pluralism, based on an independent study. i think it is important that we give more weight to these criteria, that we use them as a starting point for future policy in this area, that we try to find solutions instead of accusing.
in writing. freedom of the press is vital to a democratic society. the state authorities must support and protect it, respect the diversity of the media, both in its forms of dissemination and in its political, social and cultural missions', reads the first article of the european charter on freedom of the press. mr. berlusconi seems to be not only violating one of the essential values of democracy, but using the influence he has to manipulate public opinion. in italy and elsewhere, a good many newspapers are owned by individuals who are in the hands of politicians who impose a line of conduct from which they cannot depart. in other lands, newspapers are funded by taxpayer money, paid by the government, which uses them for its own ends. in the european union, champion of democracy and promoter of democratic values in the world, we must not allow freedom of the press to be restricted. i therefore ask the european commission to propose in the near future a directive on freedom of the press, in particular to limit political interference in the media, but also to avoid monopolisation in this field.
madam president, in amendment 6 to recital 18 the following will be added at the end of the sentence: ‘unless strictly necessary for the prevention and settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction in the application of this framework decision’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for assistance from italy on access to the european union solidarity fund for the reconstruction of the abruzzo region, which was massively damaged by the earthquake in april 2009, on humanitarian grounds for a country in distress. given the reason for the existence of this instrument at european union level, namely to cope with natural disasters and to show solidarity with regions affected by a disaster, i would like to draw attention to the need for faster procedures to make the amounts requested available to the affected states.
in writing. - i voted today for the böge report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for italy. i appreciate that, despite the difficulties, this report has been put on the agenda. the administration of parliament must prevent situations like today from happening again. it is not possible for technical reasons to postpone voting on reports with serious implications for european citizens. the european commission should review the procedures for mobilising the solidarity fund in order to speed up the payment of aid. a system of advance payments based on the initial and immediate estimation of direct damage should be established, with the final payment being made on the basis of the final calculations of direct damage and evidence of the preventive measures taken following the disaster.
in writing. − the effects of the abruzzo earthquake were devastating and tragic, and the funding which we approved today cannot, of course, compensate for the terrible loss of life or the physical destruction of communities caused by this natural disaster. but the funding from the eu solidarity fund will make a real difference to the region and its long-term recovery, and the existence and effective operation of this fund demonstrates the solidarity between the member states of the european union. programmes and mechanisms to deliver practical measures make us stronger as a union, and better able to cope with crises, whether they be economic downturns or natural disasters. we should continue to support these practical measures to provide assistance to member states during times of genuine need. policy enables us to influence and control events, but for those events – such as natural disasters – which go beyond the realm of politics, we can develop these important mechanisms to help us cope with crises.
in writing. − improving judicial cooperation in criminal proceedings between authorities exercising parallel competences is particularly important. where the facts giving rise to the commission of an offence fall within the jurisdiction of two or more member states, it is necessary that criminal proceedings be conducted in the most appropriate jurisdiction and the establishment of a common and uniform framework for the choice of that jurisdiction in an objective and transparent manner is essential. the ineffective application of the principle of ne bis in idem, which is contained in the convention implementing the schengen agreement, leads to a violation of fundamental rights and is contrary to the eu's objective of creating a common area of freedom, security and justice. the report we voted for supports the principle of ensuring that this principle is respected throughout the european judicial area and not just in national proceedings, which is why i welcome its adoption at yesterday's sitting.
in writing. − we are facing a development and humanitarian emergency, due to the economic crisis, whose human costs are increasing, especially as the recession follows the food and oil price crisis. unfortunately, one of the direct consequences of the economic crisis is the crisis of international donors, against the backdrop of accelerating poverty. in 2009 alone, 90 million people fell into extreme poverty and the number of unemployed rose by 23 million. the proposals adopted today to help the most vulnerable developing countries are encouraging, but they are not enough, since the $6 billion raised from the sale of the imf's gold reserves and earmarked for helping poor countries can only cover 2% of their needs. as a result, i believe that there is increased pressure on the g20 countries to actually take on the major responsibility for triggering the crisis by mobilizing resources in crisis support for developing countries. in the spirit of this need for efficiency, i appreciate the criticism in the resolution of the omission at the pittsburgh summit of the reform of international financial institutions, in the context of the heavy reaction to the crisis of the bretton woods system.
1636 border crossing points are designated as points of entry into the european union and approximately 900 million border crossings are recorded annually. i myself come from a region on the external border of the european union and i am very familiar with the problems faced by customs authorities. that is why i believe that we must take this matter very seriously and review the mandate of frontex. frontex is currently experiencing some problems. for example, more active involvement of member states in cooperation at the external borders of the european union is needed and more attention should be paid to cooperation with third countries which are in many cases countries of origin or transit for illegal immigration. the stockholm programme provides for the strengthening of the role of this agency, so that frontex plays a central role in the future integrated border surveillance mechanism.
these days are decisive for the democratic development of the republic of moldova. the election of the new parliament's president, scheduled for october 23, has been postponed due to a lack of competitiveness. once again, by subversive tactics, by not representing a candidate, the communist party is trying to sabotage the road to democracy. our obligation is to closely monitor the whole process so that the constitutional provisions are applied and so that the republic of moldova passes the democratic test of elections. the european union must make the consolidation of democracy in this country one of its neighbourhood policy priorities. this could be an example for the entire eastern space. it is our duty to give this democratic government a new chance by giving it the moral and technical support it needs. the most appreciated signal would probably be the finding of a viable solution for the access of the citizens of the republic of moldova to the european union.
according to studies published by the european commission, the current account deficits of the vast majority of the member states of the european union are expected to exceed the 3% of gross domestic product threshold during 2009 and 2010. it also foresees an average level of government debt of 80% for the 27 member states and above 80% for the euro area countries in 2010. for the countries of eastern europe, however, the need to temper the recession conflicts with the obligation to comply with the maastricht criteria. there is thus a discrepancy between the requirements of the stability and growth pact for euro area countries, where public deficits and debts are rising, and the extremely strict standards imposed on those wishing to join the euro area. it is therefore necessary to adjust the maastricht criteria to the current context and to the realities of the economy, which are characterised by greater cyclical fluctuations. adjusting the maastricht criteria and speeding up the accession of the eastern european countries to the euro would strengthen the european union and continue the process of integration.
the report released on world food day shows that one in six people suffer from hunger, the number of undernourished people in the world has exceeded 1 billion, and the population affected by hunger has increased by 100 million people in just one year. meanwhile, the world food programme is facing a 50 percent drop in international donations since 2008, severely impacting the amount of food aid to poor countries. the european union is the leader in the campaign against world hunger, a position reinforced by the €2 billion commitment made at the g8 meeting in l'aquila, which is in addition to the €1 billion allocated to the food facility. it's a lot, but it's a long way from what it would take to meet the un target of halving the number of people who suffer from endemic hunger. a much larger political effort is needed to mobilize the resources of all the major industrial powers of the world, and i believe that a marshall plan with a much more precise and sensitive objective is urgently needed, to help the billion of our fellow starving people to cross the subsistence threshold.
mr president, the missile defence project of the former us administration, of which europe has been made part, was fiercely contested by russia, which chose to see in it a move directed against it, and by some europeans who were upset because the russians were upset. the obama administration is trying to address such a position by shifting defence from the long-range to the short- and medium-range missile threat, thus increasing the direct protection of europe, and apparently by accepting russian cooperation through providing a radar facility in the caucasus. still some europeans contest the project, ignoring its new orientation. russia has not spoken yet. i only wish that the european position is not moulded only by this fact, but reflects a genuine search to find the best way to protect european soil from this real threat, in cooperation with the us, and with russia, too, if the latter is willing.
i would like to say that the treaty of lisbon does not specify anything about sport and, in particular, about football, football being an activity which has a great deal of social and cultural influence. i would like to say that there is no legal basis for a european sport policy. it is true that they are regulated by the regulations of sports associations, but i believe, mr president, that it should be clearly specified in the treaty that the activities and organisation of sports activities are to be governed by the regulations of sports associations and that all activities connected with these sports activities are to be governed by the rules and civil laws.
on behalf of the s&d group. the creation of an evaluation and monitoring mechanism to verify the application of the schengen acquis is an important measure to put into practice the decisions on the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular the provisions of the hague programme. the proposals for today's debate are a variant of an evaluation mechanism. they shall contain provisions specific to the field concerned and an appropriate control methodology. a closer look, however, reveals a lack of respect for the principles of interinstitutional cooperation, both at the level of the european union and between the member states of the union. in this respect, the proposal contains provisions which limit cooperation between member states in evaluating the results of the application of the schengen agreement and, at the same time, unduly increase the role of the commission in this process, while keeping the european parliament out of the whole evaluation mechanism. moreover, the wording of certain articles of the regulation leaves room for different interpretations of the relationship between the commission, parliament and the council as regards their access to information on the application of the schengen acquis. article 14 of the regulation, which concerns sensitive information, thus states that 'reports drawn up after on-the-spot visits are classified as restricted documents. the commission, after consulting the member state concerned, shall decide which part of the report may be made public. in connection with these provisions, i would point out that it does not follow from article 16, which refers to the report to the european parliament and the council, that the annual report on the evaluations carried out will also contain information with restricted access. we could therefore conclude that it is up to the commission to decide which information is to be included in the annual report and which is not. that gives the commission tasks which, in my view, are not justified. the lisbon treaty will soon enter into force and codecision will henceforth become the ordinary legislative procedure, including for the area of freedom, security and justice. the legislative proposals we are now debating contain provisions which are at odds with the principles enshrined in the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. ladies and gentlemen, freedom, security and justice are areas of the utmost importance to european citizens whose interests are directly represented by european legislation. limiting the role of an institution such as the european parliament is incorrect. in conclusion, i support mr coelho's proposal that this draft, as it stands, should be rejected and returned to the commission. i propose that we support the motion.
schengen membership entails the full freedom of movement of nationals of a member state within this area by the total abolition of frontiers between member states. the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness with which each member state carries out controls at its external borders. the establishment of a dual-evaluation mechanism is necessary because we are talking about the evaluation and verification of the application of the schengen acquis to ensure its transparent, effective and coherent implementation. while we should welcome the commission's proposal for both a decision and a regulation, as we believe it brings a high level of mutual trust between member states belonging to an area without internal borders and ensures high uniform standards in the practical application of the schengen acquis, we believe, nevertheless, that it should be revised with a view to, and after, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i appreciate that, in the commission's proposal, the member states cooperate with the commission in the coordination group to enable the commission to implement this evaluation mechanism; i also appreciate that multiannual programmes are being developed and that national experts are being involved in the on-the-spot visits, which facilitates a better exchange of information between member states in the field of the community acquis. however, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the area of police and judicial cooperation falls under the first pillar, the pillar of community law. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that article 14 of the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis provides for an annual report to be submitted by the commission to parliament and the council. but, again, the proposal must be re-evaluated in the light of the provisions of the lisbon treaty. one last thing i would like to add is that the proposal the commission has made on the proposal for a council decision to introduce this evaluation mechanism has important implications for the new member states as well, because we are talking here about a two-stage implementation procedure for the provisions of the schengen acquis, some of which are in annex i to the accession treaties, the others coming into force after the adoption of a council decision for certain provisions of the schengen acquis.
madam president, i would like to add to the calls for this proposal to be withdrawn and for the commission to submit a new one with a different legal basis. there is a clear attempt to sideline parliament on this important issue and parliament’s legal service has confirmed that a different legal basis which would have allowed full involvement of parliament in the process could have been chosen for this proposal. the schengen information system, the schengen visa, the schengen border code and the visa code are all subject to the codecision procedure and, as we move towards ratification of the lisbon treaty and a more simplified and united legal structure in the european union, we should be seeing greater involvement of parliament in these issues, not less. there is none reflected in the current proposal. we have seen considerable cross-party agreement on these issues at committee stage, and i hope that a strong, clear position of the whole parliament, together with a proper evaluation of the legal circumstances, will result in a redrafting of the proposal and the presentation of a more appropriate one to replace it.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr coelho for the very good work he has done. the establishment of a simple, effective and transparent evaluation mechanism complementing the current schengen evaluation is a most welcome initiative. however, there are also several problems in terms of data protection that the rapporteur stressed earlier. unfortunately, in spite of the improvements needed, in the current procedure we are only consulted. once the lisbon treaty enters into force, parliament will automatically have codecision powers in matters under the third pillar. since the security of the schengen area and its citizens is at stake, all players should be deeply involved in the establishment of these evaluation systems, thereby making it possible to guarantee and consolidate the principle of mutual trust essential to maintaining the schengen area. for all these reasons i support the rapporteur in this initiative requiring the commission to withdraw the proposals and present new, more complete ones.
i would like to congratulate mr coelho on his work and on his determination to have a simple, efficient and transparent evaluation mechanism for verifying the application of the schengen acquis. i consider the introduction of freedom of movement within the union and the abolition of internal border controls to be one of the most important achievements of the european union. given the permeability of borders, we need high standards in the practical application of the schengen acquis in order to maintain a high level of mutual trust between member states and in their ability to implement measures accompanying the abolition of internal border controls. the evaluation mechanism for monitoring the application of the schengen acquis needs to be improved. the need to maintain a high level of security, trust, requires good cooperation between the governments of the member states and the commission. given the relevance of the regulations in this area to fundamental rights and freedoms, the european parliament must insist that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is a precondition for any legislative developments in the field of border security. given the importance of this legislative initiative, it is regrettable that the european parliament is in the position of consultant and not that of co-legislator, as it should have been. building an area of justice, freedom and security is a top priority for the european union, and it is therefore essential that the member states, the commission and the european parliament are equally involved in maintaining and developing it. i therefore fully support the rapporteur's proposal to invite the commission to submit a new and improved proposal to the european parliament so that it can take on the role of co-legislator.
i am among the mps who believe that agriculture is a solution and not just a cause of climate change. i think she is one of the victims, because the increasing drought and flooding in europe affects us all, but it affects farmers first. i am also one of those members who believe that we need a common agricultural policy in the future. we need to be able to develop new models, new modes of production to restore the agricultural and domestic biodiversity that, at the beginning of this millennium, we've already lost 70 percent of. when we talk about agriculture, we talk about living things, starting with the soil, continuing with plants and especially with trees, forests and grasslands. i would like to believe that this kind of message, this approach will be present in copenhagen in two months' time and that the union's policy in this area will reflect in a concrete, budgetary and strategic way the treatment of agriculture as a solution, as i mentioned at the beginning of this speech.
the deforestation often invoked in this debate is certainly a phenomenon that affects developing countries in particular, but in order to blame these countries we must be aware that deforestation is a necessity for survival. i would like to bring to the debate today the conclusions of a recent study which shows that almost half of the world's agricultural land is covered by at least 10% forest. this agricultural area covered by forest vegetation is equivalent to twice the area of the amazon. i think it's very suggestive to realize the value of this vegetation. clearly, farmers would do more to protect this vegetation if they could get some proper funding. another element that could also be considered would be the encouragement of stratified agroforestry systems, which associate crops with trees. this type of crop, which is less profitable than monocultures, is often abandoned. i believe that any solution to avoid deforestation must also take into account compensation schemes for farmers, including european farmers, who practice these types of stratified crops.
we live on a planet characterized by a diversity of climatic environments. but there is one single element that affects all of this: climate change. the reality is that the effects of these changes are transnational and affect us all in different ways, whether it is floods, droughts, fires or devastating storms. the main cause of these disasters is evidently the uncontrolled development of certain categories of activities, resulting in increased carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. current statistics show that the per capita carbon dioxide emissions of developed countries can be hundreds of times higher than those of developing countries. given this reality, i feel compelled to ask a rhetorical question: is it our duty to support developing countries with initiatives and technologies that keep a clean planet? i think the answer is obvious, and taking action does not allow for any hesitation for us and future generations.
development and cooperation mechanisms, as well as the allocation of a substantial climate change fund to developing countries, are important for the conclusion of a post-kyoto international agreement. however, the best argument for persuading other states to join a post-kyoto agreement is the measures the european union is taking to meet its commitments already made. for non-ets sectors, the measures envisaged may include: renovation of energy-inefficient buildings, establishment of an energy efficiency fund in each member state, significant increase of the erdf share that can be used for energy efficiency in housing and development of public transport. these measures can create around 7 million jobs at european level by 2020. for ets sectors, financing mechanisms for the low carbon economy are needed. the re-engineering of european energy or metallurgical companies will enable them to produce in an environmentally friendly way.
in writing. we need to look at the costs of the clean energy transition not as an economic burden that will lead to higher production costs for companies and higher public spending in national budgets, but as investments that will bring tangible benefits in terms of jobs, technological innovation, clean infrastructure, and contribute to the sustainable development of the countries concerned. climate change is a threat to the balance of our environment and our habitat. europe must show courage and be consistent in its leadership in the effort to combat global warming. in the interests of fairness and historical responsibility, poor countries must be helped to strengthen and adapt their economies to new challenges, while protecting themselves from the effects of global warming to which they are most vulnerable. i hope that those attending the december conference will understand that there is no alternative to reducing emissions and that a delayed decision in copenhagen on binding targets will mean a failure not only of the conference but also of multilateral dialogue on global issues that affect our future, the future of all of us.
in writing. climate change is one of the most serious environmental, social and economic threats. crop productivity fluctuates from year to year and is significantly influenced by the variability of extreme climatic conditions. it affects all sectors of the economy, but agriculture remains the most vulnerable. i believe that this problem must be tackled in two aspects: - an action plan in the worst affected areas: the use of plant varieties resistant to the new climatic parameters, the adaptation of the agricultural calendar to the new conditions, afforestation, the construction of greenhouses, the management of agricultural water resources, the greening of polluted land; - the other aspect must be a forward-looking plan to eliminate the causes of climate change by promoting a low-carbon global economy, coupled with a promotion of energy security. i also believe that it is important to develop strategies for preventing and managing natural disasters, because over the last decade droughts and floods have occurred frequently, with a negative impact on both agricultural production and flora and fauna. i firmly believe that the european union must maintain its leadership in the fight against climate change, which must not be put in second place because of the current economic difficulties.
in writing. achieving an agreement in copenhagen will provide the necessary impetus for coordinating global action to combat climate change. the climate crisis must be linked to the economic crisis: it is the opportunity to move from an unsustainable economy based on limited natural resources to a sustainable economy. in addition to promoting the strategy of energy security and energy efficiency, europe needs to develop its investment plan in new energy technologies. promoting green technologies at community level involves not only finding an alternative to the energy crisis, but also boosting economic growth and job creation. on the other hand, the copenhagen agreement provides an opportunity to promote future links between the eu emissions trading system and regional or federal trading systems in the us and other countries that practice this type of system or similar systems. last but not least, the eu must take a united stance to maintain its leadership role in the negotiations and must actively participate in strengthening existing climate partnerships with developing countries and in forging new partnerships where they do not yet exist.
in writing. over the next 50 years, climate change will have significant effects on important economic sectors such as agriculture, energy, transport, ecosystems, tourism and health. climate change will also affect households, businesses and certain sectors of society, in particular the elderly, people with disabilities and low-income households. the eu is determined to act swiftly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. but mitigating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not enough. mitigation requires a complementary short-term response. the effects of climate change are expected to be more significant than anticipated and will occur regardless of the mitigation measures that will be implemented. this is why measures are needed to strengthen the resilience of natural and human systems to cope with the impacts of climate change, i.e. adaptation policies. these policies are under way in the eu, but they are also needed globally, and that is why the copenhagen conference must be an international success. we need a global solidarity pact to develop green economies by promoting clean technologies that secure jobs and protect the environment and public health.
in writing. – the negotiations in copenhagen on financing to developing countries will be crucial if this summit is to be successful. already, some african countries have said they will not be able to commit to the kind of deal we need at copenhagen if it does not contain suitable measures for financing of mitigation and adaptation in developing countries. there are two key points here - the first is that the public money given to these developing countries must be new, additional money and should not come from existing aid budgets. the second point is that it isn't just public money which can be used in this context; in addition to directly providing aid, steps can be taken to encourage private sector investment in low carbon economies. the extent to which the private sector is prepared to invest in developing countries will depend on international agreements on emission trading schemes. agreements on this issue will provide the policy coherence and stability which give the private sector the confidence to invest properly in developing countries. the negotiations must therefore aim for both comprehensive commitments regarding public financing and concrete measures to secure private sector investment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i fully support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena). the main objective of this is to disseminate good practice in the field of renewable energy, both within the european union and globally. under its statute, the agency will promote and support the use of renewable resources globally. by acceding to the status of this agency, the community will enjoy better direct access to information on renewable energy activities, both at european and global level. the commission will also be able to monitor the progress of member states towards the mandatory 2020 target for renewable energy.
in writing. − in voting for this report, i want to stress the importance of establishing this international organisation, which will promote and support the use of renewable resources across the globe, given the benefits that can be gained from their contribution to environmental and climate protection, economic growth and social cohesion, including poverty reduction, energy security and regional development. at the bonn conference in january 2009, romania, the first signatory country, was appointed vice-chair of this first meeting and was also admitted to the irena administrative committee, the nucleus that provides the agency's interim secretariat until it starts to function. today, 137 countries, including 24 eu member states, have signed the statute.
in writing. − the coordination of certain laws and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the broadcasting of television programmes is essential for the creation of a media space characterised by unity in diversity. equally important is our ability to make european legislation as accessible as possible to all citizens. the report on the proposal for an audiovisual media services directive in its codified version, which has been tabled before the house, is a purely technical and legal measure, but its benefits are undeniable. codifying legislation that is constantly changing is a way of bringing more clarity and transparency to community law, making it more understandable to eu citizens. in the present case, the proposed codification consists in replacing the old 1989 directive with a new directive (without any changes in content), to which the acts which have supplemented it over time have been added. i supported this initiative because, beyond its technical nature, its value for the smooth functioning of audiovisual media services, but also in terms of transparency, cannot be overlooked.
in writing. − i agree with the text of this report because information pluralism should be a fundamental principle of the european union. diversification of the mass media means a multiplication of views, and this is essential in a democratic society. in addition, there is an economic component to this argument: traditional audiovisual media services (such as television) and newly emerging ones (e.g. 'video on demand') provide important employment opportunities in europe, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, which stimulate economic growth and investment.
in writing. − the creation of the schengen area by the abolition of internal border controls and the introduction of freedom of movement within the union is one of the european union's most important achievements. given the permeability of borders, we need high standards in the practical application of the schengen acquis in order to maintain a high level of mutual trust between member states and in their ability to implement the measures accompanying the abolition of internal border controls. the evaluation mechanism for monitoring the application of the schengen acquis needs to be improved. the need to maintain a high level of security and trust requires good cooperation between the governments of the member states and the commission. given the importance of this legislative initiative and its relevance from the point of view of fundamental rights and freedoms, it is regrettable that the european parliament is in the position of consultant and not of co-legislator as it should have been. that is why i voted against the commission's legislative proposal.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, compared to the 2009 budget, the commission proposal for 2010 provides for a moderate increase on the budget lines concerning internal market and customs policy, whereas the amount of money allocated to consumer policy remains stable. in the draft 2010 budget the council has decreased the money, in particular for budget lines which concern the development of the internal market. i believe that a functioning internal market in these times of economic crisis can contribute to the economic recovery. in the area of customs policy, the budget will assure cooperation and coordination measures, thus reinforcing security and protection of external borders, supporting the fight against illicit trafficking and fraud as well as improving the efficiency of customs systems. i consider measures in the area of consumer education a priority, in particular the strengthening of financial literacy. the crisis has shown how important consumer policy, in particular consumer education, is in order to help consumers to take responsible economic decisions. for all these reasons, the imco committee called for a separate budget line on the solvit programme to be financed by an amount of eur 1 million. solvit is a very good example of how you can help businesses and citizens. finally, for the continuation of the pilot project monitoring measures in the field of consumer policy for the consolidation of a scoreboard and related market study, as a preparatory action, the amount adopted is eur 1 million.
in writing. drafting a budget is never an easy process, especially in times of economic crisis, but its importance is all the greater for this reason. the management of a crisis of the magnitude of the present one depends on the european level and on the balance that is found in the negotiations between the competent european institutions. the role of the ep is undoubtedly crucial in this debate. the 2010 budget discussions focused on the economic recovery plan and the european milk fund. in a way, they demonstrated the rigidity of the 2007-2013 financial framework, representing new financial projects and therefore new money. the european budget needs to use all its financial margins to respond to the economic crisis. however, this budget risks having a limited impact if member states do not take an active stance in accessing the available funds. we need to send a strong message to european capitals and, in my case, to bucharest in particular: our work here to get more money for european funds is useless if those responsible at home do not take the necessary steps to access and use them effectively.
in writing. – i welcome the proposal of the draft budget for 2010 as it is a balanced report, taking into consideration in a realistic manner the eu’s priorities. two matters are to be highlighted – the increases to payments on the main lines (erdf, esf, cohesion fund) for regional development, and the creation of a ‘milk fund’. the increases to payments are important as they will boost the implementation of structural policy in the member states for the benefit of all european citizens, while the setting-up of a special ‘milk fund’ would represent a strong signal sent out by the european institutions to european farmers. a third key point in the budget is represented by energy policy, an essential area for 2010 as it will be the year of the adoption of a new energy plan for the period 2010-2014 aimed at boosting the eu’s energy security and competitiveness. in the coming years the commission should also consider as a priority investments in infrastructure, especially in the new member states, as they have a positive effect on economic and territorial cohesion.
in writing. the establishment of the dairy fund would send an important signal to european farmers that the eu institutions are genuinely concerned about the dairy crisis. the milk market is one of the most volatile markets and has been severely affected by the economic crisis we are going through. such a substantive solution - the establishment of a fund to support the modernisation of the sector - is clearly preferable to palliative solutions such as a return to traditional means of regulating production through milk quotas. we would all have liked a larger financial allocation, but the amount proposed for the creation of this fund, eur 300 million, is the maximum amount compatible with the budgetary ceiling - any exceeding of this ceiling would have made it impossible for the council of ministers to approve the establishment of the fund. at the same time, new approaches are needed to boost the use of rural development funds by livestock farmers. i believe that the most useful approaches would be those relating to access to information, exchange of good practice and training on how to claim these funds, which are currently underused in some member states.
member of the commission. − i think that again you have pointed to a very important problem. we already discussed this morning that we now have 78 million people in the european union with basic or lower skills, and it is very clear that, by the deadline which we have set for ourselves of 2020, we will definitely not have the same number of jobs for the people with basic or lower skills. therefore it is absolutely imperative to prepare for that time: we have to upgrade and modernise our educational system, and we have to progress with analysing and searching to ascertain what these new skills and jobs might be. we have to prepare the younger generation in particular, but also the middle generation, for this. therefore we would like to continue with the ongoing research under the strategic framework ‘education and training 2020’ for policy cooperation and mutual learning. this is just one of the frameworks in which we would like to continue and to cooperate with educational institutions and with businesses on future requirements for the most wide-ranging and most relevant mix of skills that our citizens will need by 2020.
member of the commission. − you started your question with a very clear analysis that there is a division of labour and division of competences, but it is very clear that the commission is strongly behind all efforts to increase the proportion of the population with the highest possible level of education. it is very clear that only by improving the level of education, by enlarging access to high-quality tertiary education, as you mentioned, that we can preserve the cutting edge of the european economy and preserve the prosperity and high living standards we enjoy in europe. i think therefore that the commission and the member states have to work very closely in this respect to create the conditions whereby students or pupils from difficult socioeconomic backgrounds can also get a fair chance and fair access to higher and university education.
today, 19 percent of young europeans drop out of school. the european union cannot have sustainable economic development if it fails to invest in education and research. only five member states have so far invested more than 2% of their gross domestic product in research and innovation. the economic crisis has reduced both the gross domestic product of the member states and the community budget. there is therefore a risk that budgets for education and research will be reduced in the coming years. for the european union to remain economically competitive and create new jobs, we need to invest in education and innovation. what steps can the commission, together with the member states, take to ensure that the minimum level of investment in research and education is secured in the years ahead?
member of the commission. − you are absolutely right that the percentage of early school leavers in europe is very high. we set ourselves the level of 10% to achieve by 2010; it is quite obvious that this benchmark will not be reached, because currently there are around 15% of early school leavers, and you are absolutely right that this does not reflect well on the need for quality in our educational systems around europe. you are also right that, under current circumstances – where national governments are under different constraints regarding public finances and the financing of stimulus packages, and are very often implementing exit strategies aimed at restoring public finances to a sound footing in the coming years – there is much debate over the budget. what should be the priorities? where should we place our emphasis? i think you have already noticed that there is always a strong voice from the commission side highlighting the need to keep an adequate level of financing for research and innovation in the educational sectors, because we believe this is how we will preserve and improve our competitive edge and prepare our future researchers, our future workers in highly competitive areas for better performance in the future. you will certainly hear voices from the commission appealing clearly to keep financing for education-related activities and for research and innovatory aid at the highest possible level, even under these very difficult economic constraints.
member of the commission. − mr president, i already used some of the arguments in my previous answer, but it is clear that this is a very important area and i will try to highlight some other additional information in responding to this question. as you know, in accordance with articles 149 and 150 of the ec treaty, responsibility for the content and organisation of education and training systems rests with the member states. it is really up to them to decide the content of their educational programmes for all levels of education and training. the commission recognises, however, the importance of the issue raised by the honourable member and supports member states in implementing their reforms through the open method of coordination. the 2006 recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning defines the key competences young people should develop during their initial education and training to a level that equips them for adult life and which would allow them to develop very good job skills for the future. we should also look at the aforementioned strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (‘et 2020’) from this perspective. i would underline that among the priority areas for the first cycle of this programme, the commission aims to develop cooperation among member states on improving basic skills in reading, mathematics and science, and to intensify work on reducing the number of early leavers from education and training. through the copenhagen process, european union member states are increasingly cooperating to share experience and improve links between vocational education and training and the labour market to help youngsters access the labour market on better terms. boosting the attractiveness and quality of vocational educational training is a main priority, as is fostering the notion of lifelong learning and related policies so that the european workforce is flexible and able to adapt to changes in labour market conditions. just to highlight some other programmes, the leonardo da vinci programme’s mobility action is also a highly effective tool to help youngsters access the labour market. this mostly concerns apprentices and other youngsters on the job market. thanks to this programme, they can undertake part of their training in another country. so far, the results have been very positive because these placements abroad have improved skills that are useful for employers. they have improved their language abilities and intercultural skills. i should also mention the erasmus programme, but in a slightly different light because up to now we have been speaking mostly about exchanges for students among universities. since 2007, however, the erasmus programme has also been supporting student placements in enterprises. this programme has been very successful since the start, as in its first year of operation alone over 20 000 students carried out a work placement abroad and over 15 000 enterprises have participated in this effort. this is one example of how we can enhance the employability of graduates and foster better cooperation between academia and business. we have already discussed the positive impact of the bologna process on student mobility and on cooperation among universities and higher education institutions, so i will not repeat what i already said a few minutes ago. to conclude, i would like to underline that the commission acknowledges the particular difficulties that young people face when they are entering the labour market. in the framework of the lisbon strategy for growth and more and better jobs, both the commission and the european council have put a particular focus on improving the employment situation of young people. member states have committed themselves through the adoption of the european youth pact in 2005 to devote more attention to the integration of young people into education, employment and society overall, but the initial very promising progress has been stalled because of the current economic crisis. it is true that young people have been hit particularly hard as they have been the first to lose their jobs under the current circumstances. in its communication ‘a shared commitment for employment’ of june 2009, the commission has encouraged member states and social partners to ensure that young people, despite the difficult economic environment, have access to quality education and training and, in particular, to high-quality apprenticeships and traineeships.
the economic crisis risks making it harder for young people to find work, accepting work below their level of qualification or being forced to go through longer periods of unemployment. the commission should ensure that they will have the opportunity to train during this period of unemployment and not be disadvantaged by employment conditions requiring a minimum period of experience, sometimes 5-10 years. what measures does the commission envisage to this end?
i would like to ask the commissioner a question, and i thank her for coming to parliament. you said that the funds promised for the milk support funds would be allocated to the member states according to a historical criterion, namely on the basis of negotiated quotas, but many member states accuse inequities in respect of these quotas. this is why many member states are pushing for market liberalisation. for example, some countries cannot even produce enough to cover their own consumption. do not think that using a historical criterion will perpetuate these injustices... (the president interrupts) i will summarize the question so as not to exceed the allotted time. the commissioner said that the funds would be allocated to the member states according to the historical criterion, but many member states accuse inequities in the quotas currently allocated. this is why they insist on liberalising the market. don't you think that using a historical criterion would perpetuate these injustices?
there are voices in this parliament who, whatever the subject is, have the same subject they are dealing with and sometimes not as they should. it is clear that the european council must first find a solution for the czech republic to complete the procedures for ratifying the treaty of lisbon. this solution must be fair to all the other member states. at the same time, we must not forget the economic crisis we are still facing and for which immediate solutions must also be found. the economic and financial crisis and the exceptional financial measures taken over the past year have destabilised public finances in most eu countries to a worrying degree. so far, 17 of the 27 member states are under the commission's excessive deficit watch, and estimates suggest that another three will soon be in the same situation. regardless of economic strength, member states exceeded their assumptions, as the crisis led to a sharp decline in budget revenues and an above-planned increase in public expenditure. it is true that there are clear indications of an economic recovery in the near future and that is why we can begin to talk about reducing financial incentives in certain areas. however, the specific situation of each member state must be taken into account and the european institutions must recognise that we are not yet at the stage where we can completely abandon public support for all economic sectors. member states need to agree on the continuation of the exit strategy and the right tools for doing so, including the intensification of structural reforms that can reduce the fiscal deficit in the medium term and naturally contribute to economic recovery. inadequate management of the post-crisis period by member states may destabilise the internal market of the european union. the continuation of public support must therefore be decided and permitted according to the particular conditions in each state.
the european council will be invited to adopt the strategy for the baltic sea region. i believe this is a good model for the future strategy of the european union for the danube region. the danube region includes 10 states, 6 of which are eu member states, and has a population of 200 million. of these, 75 million live in the danube river basin. that is why i think it is important that this model also serves the danube strategy, which will have to have an action plan and an action programme for the next few years. i also think that it is extremely important, with regard to the european council programme, to adopt at european level the financial instruments necessary for the development of an 'efficient' economy. i am referring in particular to the energy efficiency of buildings and sustainable transport.
mr. president, my name is luhan, not luman. i very much appreciate the solidarity of the political groups in promoting the ratification process. for the european union to function effectively, we need the lisbon treaty and its entry into force as soon as possible. at the moment, the czech republic is the only member state not yet ratifying the treaty and, as the epp group has already said, we call for a responsible attitude on the part of president klaus to ratify the treaty by the european council at the end of october. otherwise we will be stuck in institutional debate and will not be able to focus on the real problems facing the ordinary citizen, such as the economic and financial crisis, unemployment, social inclusion, nor will we be able to strengthen the european union's profile as a genuine international actor. i think that the merits of this treaty have been discussed so much that it is useless to resume this debate. what we are now concerned with is that at the forthcoming european council we will be able to see that the ratification process in all the member states has been completed so that we can move on to the next stage of forming the commission's college.
in writing. the effects of the adoption of the lisbon treaty in ireland are felt throughout the european continent. the aim of this treaty is obviously to simplify the decision-making process after the enlargement of the union to the east. in this context, the signal given by our irish partners is one of solidarity among european citizens. we are therefore discussing one of the last european councils to be held under the union's rotating presidency, which is all the more significant given the need to select the holders of the key posts to be held in the coming years. it's an issue that has sparked lively debate, drawing in countless political sensitivities. in my view, we are dealing with a matter where clear principles must prevail over momentary vanity. we have a duty to give the union coherence, efficiency, a long-term perspective, balanced development of all regions, so that it can face the challenges on the international political stage, whether we are talking about the economic crisis, climate change, our common identity, etc. and the union will only gain the strength it deserves when we have a synchronised message at international level, when we are identifiable as a structure that acts as one.
in writing. − freedom of the press is a vital element in a democratic society. for this reason, i believe that the need for a balanced media market must be supported at the level of all member states, which must commit themselves, both individually and jointly, to providing european citizens with the most accurate information possible. i believe it is imperative that all european citizens actively exercise their rights and obligations so that they are informed, but also understand and criticize the way they are informed, both by the european institutions and by each individual member state.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the freedom of information in italy and in other eu member states mainly due to paragraph d mentioning the ‘critical situation in romania and bulgaria’, quoting a freedom house report. i have carefully read this report, especially the section related to my country, and therefore i can say that this sentence is not true. the quoted report clearly says that ‘the romanian constitution protects freedom of the press and the government has become increasingly respectful of these rights’. relating to the president of romania, mr traian băsescu, the report states that ‘he has proven to be less controlling and manipulative of the media than his predecessors.’ another strong argument to prove our freedom of expression is that ‘romania is considered a regional leader in high-speed broadband connections’. through the internet all journalists can express themselves freely and get in touch with the public. i therefore think that the reference to romania and bulgaria was used without taking into consideration the entire context.
in writing. − freedom of expression is one of the values underpinning democracy. the institutions of the european union must protect freedom of expression in their actions and provide inspiration to the world in this regard. however, the institution of the european parliament cannot be drawn into the internal political disputes of the member states as an arbiter or a negotiating table, as is the case with this resolution and with the resolution on the 'situation in lithuania', which was voted on during the previous part-session. in view of these considerations, i voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − given that three eu countries (including romania) have been classified by freedom house as having 'partly free' media, i am convinced that intervention at european level is needed to guarantee that one of the most important principles of democracy, namely media freedom, is respected. i believe it is necessary to ask the commission to guarantee media pluralism by implementing common standards at union level. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution and i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the need for a directive on freedom of information.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the establishment of the european external action service as a step forward, a step forward in the creation of a more coherent and effective europe on the international scene. i believe that the creation of this service will add an important political dimension to the european project and give europe a more political profile. i would also like to stress the need for consistency in the work of this service in all matters relating to administrative and budgetary powers, and in this respect, of course, relations with the commission on the one hand and parliament on the other are essential. as far as parliament is concerned, i also believe that this service should cooperate directly and very closely with parliament in order to keep the members of the european parliament constantly informed of the activities, but also of the appointments to the most important posts. the high representative will of course be an important figure, but i think that the other members of the service should also be people of great trust. i would also like to stress the issue of recruitment. i believe, as other members have said, that geographical representation is important and that a balance must be found for the small countries as well as for the new member states. finally, i would like to say a word about the importance of this common european culture, which is of course being built up today in different schools and institutes, but i believe that a coherent initiative in this area, with the creation of a structure at european level, would be a good thing.
i spoke in my speech about a common culture from the point of view of diplomacy, as part of a political culture. i believe that turkey is also part of this european political culture, which includes a very respectable diplomatic tradition. thank you for asking, i should have started with that.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr elmar brok on the preparation of this report. as my predecessor said, three decades ago, the us secretary of state, henry kissinger, asked: 'who do i call if i want to talk to europe?' the creation of the high representative and the external service will enable the european union to answer this question. with these means, i believe that european diplomacy should play a much more active and decisive role in defending the union's fundamental interests, including energy security. i appreciate that the high representative and the heads of diplomatic missions should have a permanent dialogue with the european parliament. as regards the recruitment of staff in the external service, i believe that, in addition to the fact that staff must have high-level knowledge and skills, account must also be taken of the fair and proportionate representation of the member states.
in writing. the creation of the european external action service is absolutely necessary to improve the effectiveness of the eu's external action. the aim is to promote a more coherent foreign policy and to increase the eu's international visibility, but how we organise this service will determine whether we achieve these objectives. the report contains a number of very important proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emahp) is a step in the right direction. for reasons of efficiency, i also find it interesting that they should in future take over certain consular functions such as schengen visas. i would like to stress the need for uniform staff training in order to have a truly professional service that meets the needs of the eu. the creation of a european diplomatic college seems to me the ideal solution to provide diplomatic staff with training at common standards, so as to guarantee the coherence of the eeas. in the future, a european diplomatic career could thus become as attractive as a diplomatic career at member state level.
madam president, the transatlantic relations that are crucial for both the eu and the us have been seriously tested in recent years. now, with a new administration in the white house which is redefining us priorities, and france back into the nato military structure, the perspective is better. personally i consider that the time is now ripe for a substantive evaluation of transatlantic relations to give them the solid basis they deserve to withstand the current common challenges posed by the international environment – energy, climate change, emerging new powers, the financial and economic crisis, and terrorism. this time we should go beyond superficial policy differences and evaluate our deeper common interests which, until now, have simply been taken for granted. the truth is that, without such a profound joint evaluation, we in the west could lose the initiative to other centres of power, who will not hesitate to shape the world according to their interests – not ours. security in europe, for instance, is one such common interest and therefore stands at the heart of transatlantic relations. even if, for now, war on the continent is not a serious proposition, the culmination of some current negative trends could bring back that possibility if we fail to respond properly. progress is not irreversible, as we all know so well in central europe. that is why, before considering a proposal to re-evaluate the current security architecture of the continent, we should try to have definite answers as to the continuation of us involvement, the future of nato and the role expected of the eu after the lisbon treaty comes into force. if europe wants to realise its ambition to be a true player in world politics, it should eliminate such differences between its members, thus trying to motivate them equally around true common economic interests.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? i thank all members for their contributions to this debate. there is a broad consensus on the importance of deepening cooperation with the us administration and the summit we are about to hold. it is gratifying that the american government is showing such a willingness to deepen and develop our relations. i think we have a lot of good things going on and we are well prepared to take some important steps. we have a number of common problems with our partner the united states and it is therefore urgent to find common solutions. i believe that we can make progress on the climate issue, the economic crisis and the doha round - reaffirming the importance of its conclusion - and that we can initiate extremely important processes in the legal field. the economic partnership is a very important forum for us. we also see the importance of discussing important regional issues, such as afghanistan, pakistan and the middle east. i was asked some specific questions. the commission is also proposing to extend the visa-free regime to all eu countries. it is unfortunate that this is not the case today, but we continue to work very intensively to make this a reality. as regards the so-called tobin tax, i know that there are members of parliament who are ardent supporters of it. i would like to put it this way: a tobin tax can only work if it is global and if there are global control instruments - otherwise it becomes another protectionist measure. there are no conditions at present for an international, global agreement on a tobin tax, so the presidency will not pursue this issue. i want to be clear about that. with regard to swift, we agree with the united states on the importance of being able to exchange information on financial transfers. it is valuable in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. now a new agreement is needed because the belgian company swift is moving to europe, but we are both keen to keep the programme to prevent the financing of terrorism. in a transitional phase we need to find an agreement that can be applied for a short time until we have the new lisbon treaty in place. there have been experts who have looked at this, including the french judge jean-louis bruguyère who, on behalf of the eu, inspected tftp. he believes that the legal certainty and data protection requirements of the current agreement are adequate. the more permanent agreement will also eventually, when the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, provide for the european parliament to be actively involved in its formulation. it is a very important meeting we are facing next week, but it is after all just a meeting. i believe that we can move forward, resolve certain issues and initiate important processes on the issues that we have in common and need to resolve in close and strategic partnership with the us government. i am very pleased to see the strong support in the european parliament for the council and the commission in our efforts. i will of course report on the results of this next time we meet in the brussels plenary.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would first of all agree with james elles about a greater strategic dialogue with a great strategic partner. this is the objective that we have. as i said before, it is about cooperating for global recovery, so financial and economic questions will be very high on our agenda. we have been one of the driving forces behind the activation of the g20 summit process which was raised, as you know, to leaders’ level last november on the initiative of president barroso and president sarkozy, but we are not the only ones that are needed. the pittsburgh g20 summit has also been a success in providing a platform for flexible macroeconomic coordination as we also seek exit strategies to gradually pare back our respective policies of immediate crisis response. the imf and the world bank agree that this will require different approaches from each party depending on the respective economic situation. given the current economic global situation, the leaders will naturally also discuss possible ways out of the crisis, of boosting growth and creating jobs, and the question of the regulation of financial markets will be particularly important. we think it is necessary to ensure the rapid establishment of a globally coordinated system of ‘macro-prudential’ supervision based upon close cooperation with the international monetary fund and the financial stability board. on banking, we need to deploy the london and pittsburgh commitments for better and more capital and stricter prudential rules consistently among financial centres. we need to intensify our work towards effective global convergence policies on crisis management and systemically important financial institutions. we should also achieve a single set of high-quality global accounting standards on financial instruments by the end of 2010 and, hopefully, complete convergence by june 2011. on climate change, we had a very first exchange on climate change with president obama in prague. i was personally present and we pressured the united states to do more on climate change, but we also know that president obama has a very important health-care issue in congress and the senate. i therefore think that we will have to put even more pressure on him to redouble the efforts to find committed, binding regulations for copenhagen, in the light of his preoccupation with the domestic agenda. with regard to the tec, this is a very important new mechanism, or re-energised mechanism, to work on all matters regarding the free market and market barriers. we want to eliminate these, which is the ultimate objective of the tec. this was clearly stated in the tec framework agreement of 30 april 2007. of course, i am aware of the different ideas that have been raised recently – such as reaching a unified transatlantic market by 2015 through the elimination of existing obstacles to economic integration: the so-called millán mon report. we no doubt need to work on the right balance between ambition and realism, which is why we are working on medium-term priority tasks for the tec. on the question of barriers, we already know that you, parliament, want to have a study, and we welcome your support for this study. it would be important in guiding future work for the tec. the study has not yet been finalised, but is under way, and there are still a number of technical issues to be cleared up before it is totally ready for publication. commissioner ashton here will deal with this, and i will certainly convey parliament’s interest. let me also say, because this was mentioned, that the energy council will not overlap with the tec. the agendas will complement each other. it is clear that security issues will go to the energy council, whereas regulatory issues go to the tech. the focus of the energy council is on new technologies and energy security. a very brief word on swift and some gls questions that have been mentioned. the swift agreement is needed as it sets out specific safeguards on data. that is clear and the mutual legal assistance agreement would also really like to go there. it should also be known that this mutual legal assistance agreement is at the heart of the swift agreement, and any us request is subject to the authorisation of an eu judicial authority within that framework, so we have to keep working on it. on the esta, we issued a preliminary assessment which concluded that, based on the interim final rule, esta is not tantamount to the schengen visa application process as defined in the european commission’s common consular instructions. we will, however, prepare a final assessment once the final rule on esta has been published, and this evaluation will also address the question of the esta fee if the fee is really put into place. you can imagine that we do not want it. a last answer on terrorism. in our work on the summit, we are discussing with the us how to move towards closer cooperation in the fight against terrorism, especially in the light of the plans to close guantánamo. the need to ensure respect for fundamental rights is essential. the conclusion of the mutual legal assistance treaties will also help us in this respect. we will therefore also cooperate on how to prevent radicalism, including misuse of the internet. you can see that there is an enormous range of issues. we have spoken about all the political issues before, but i agree with the council president that although this will be an important summit, it will only be one meeting of a few hours. not everything will be solved in one meeting, but it will be a very good restart or re-beginning.
in writing. the eu-us summit in november will strengthen the transatlantic partnership and develop dialogue between the two great powers. relations between them must be based on shared values and objectives, and the closest cooperation is in our mutual interest and benefit. the european union and the united states must play a leading role in combating climate change. in this context, a number of joint commitments have been made to combat the adverse effects of global warming. as far as europe is concerned, a viable and practical solution to protect the environment is the opening of the rhine-main-danube shipping canal, which links the ports of rotterdam and constance directly. the use of river navigation as an alternative will bring numerous economic benefits and lead to a reduction in noise pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. the use and development of the canal will make the transport of goods cheaper, safer and more energy efficient. environmental protection policies can be complemented by measures to ensure safe and secure transcontinental mobility and international connectivity for european goods and citizens.
president-in-office of the council. − i thank the member for that proposal. it is the first time i have heard about this. it sounds like a good initiative, but i will have to refer it back to the ministers concerned and feed it into the discussion process. perhaps we could come back to this at a later stage.
the population of the european union is ageing. older people need special conditions, both in the area of medical services and in the proper layout of buildings and public transport. sweden has a long tradition of social policy. what proposals are you discussing with other member states to improve the living conditions of older people throughout the european union?
acting president of the council. - i can assure the members that sweden will do so. we are very vigilant about the sensitive environment in the baltic sea, which is of course at risk because of all the projects that are to be carried out, and that is why we have set very strict environmental requirements for this particular project, which is now being examined and reviewed by various relevant authorities. it is not sweden's territory that is affected by this, but sweden's economic zone, and that is why we have been very careful to point out that it is international conventions, such as the espo convention, which form the basis of the positions we are going to take. we are not going to make any political or economic assessments, but this is what the swedish state can look at and we are looking at it too.
acting president of the council. - the council recalls that the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by community law, including the right of eu citizens to live and work in another member state. at its meeting on 9 march 2009, the council addressed an invitation to those member states which still apply transitional rules restricting free movement. the council then said that in the light of the facts available, the continued application of restrictions should be considered. the countries were also invited to lift the restrictions during the third phase if no serious disturbances, or any risk of serious disturbances, could be detected in the labour markets of the member states concerned. the council also stressed to the member states the need to give priority to nationals of member states over non-eu workers and that the protection of nationals of new member states who were already resident and employed in a member state would be maintained during transitional periods. in addition, the rights of family members have been taken into account in accordance with the practice of previous accessions. the council stressed the strong elements of differentiation and flexibility in the rules on the free movement of workers. member states have declared that they will seek to grant increased access to the labour market for nationals of the new member states concerned under national law, with a view to accelerating the approximation to the acquis communautaire. in november 2008, the commission presented its communication on the consequences of the free movement of workers after enlargement. the commission notes that workers from bulgaria, romania and the eu-10 member states have contributed to meeting an increased demand for labour in the beneficiary countries, thereby significantly supporting continued economic growth. the available data suggest that post-enlargement mobility within the eu has not led to and will not lead to any serious disruption of the labour market. the commission also notes that it is labour supply and demand, rather than rules restricting access to the labour market, that govern the extent and direction of intra-eu mobility. the commission concludes that the restrictions applied by the member states may lead to a longer adjustment period in the labour market and an increase in the proportion of undeclared work. the free movement of labour is a key priority for the european union. labour mobility contributes to more jobs, to the ability of the economy to adapt even in the event of an economic crisis. moreover, the mobility of workers contributes to reducing social exclusion and poverty. as regards the transitional period for free movement requested by the honourable member, member states are entitled to maintain their restrictions until the end of the third phase of the transitional period. however, the council considers that the economic crisis in europe should not be used as a reason for continuing to apply the transitional rules. even in times of low labour demand, employers may find it difficult to fill vacancies with jobseekers from their own country. the council shall regularly review the question of transitional arrangements. this was most recently done at the june 2009 meeting, when the council took note of the commission's information on the consequences of free movement after enlargement. the commission informed the council that three of the eu-15 member states had notified the commission of serious labour market disturbances or risks thereof before 1 may 2009. germany and austria continued to apply restrictions on labour market entry by maintaining the work permit requirement, while the uk applies a system of ex post registration which allows workers to start employment but requires registration within 30 days. in its information to the council, the commission also stated that it would ensure compliance with the provisions of the accession treaty and reserved the right to request clarifications from those member states which continued to apply restrictions.
i would like to ask you whether you have in your agenda for the swedish presidency an action in your calendar to try to persuade those member states which still maintain these barriers to the free movement of labour to lift them. a second question is whether you will include such a suggestion to lift barriers to the free movement of labour in the swedish presidency conclusions.
member of the commission. − the repeated elections in the republic of moldova on 29 july were a decisive test of the country's ability to consolidate its democratic development and continue on its path towards the european union. we are pleased that the elections took place in a calm and orderly atmosphere and that the new government has not only expressed its firm intention to favour a pro-european orientation but has already taken a number of steps in this direction. on the other hand, the new authorities in the republic of moldova are facing enormous difficulties. one of the most serious crises, one of the greatest difficulties is the need to cope with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. of the european union's eastern neighbours, the republic of moldova is perhaps the most economically fragile. trade and industrial production have collapsed amid the crisis, as well as the political turmoil generated by the parliamentary elections in april. transfers by moldovan citizens from abroad, which until last year accounted for over a third of the country's gross domestic product, have fallen well below the usual level. exports and imports have fallen dramatically. so is domestic demand and industrial production. a sharp decline, even of more than 10% of gross domestic product, is forecast for 2009. given that moldova is already the poorest country in europe, this setback is particularly painful and will further accentuate the hardships faced by the population and, in particular, the most vulnerable. in order to come to the aid of the republic of moldova and its people, the european union stands ready to support the country by providing macro-financial assistance in addition to that which may be provided by and in coordination with the international monetary fund. we will also provide specialized assistance and accelerate the disbursement of our regular aid to this country. as regards macro-financial assistance, as required for this type of assistance, our support will be conditional on the conclusion of an agreement on a support programme between the republic of moldova and the international monetary fund. the imf representatives are currently in chisinau and we are eagerly awaiting their report. we cannot move forward with the preparation of a macro-financial assistance programme before the launch of the programme with the imf. as such, it is too early to know what form the macro-financial assistance programme that the european commission might grant will take. we expect the authorities to ask for support, not only to strengthen foreign exchange reserves, but also to cover the budget deficit. it should be noted that the republic of moldova is eligible for both grants and loans. what this assistance will ultimately consist of depends, of course, on the needs that will be identified. in the meantime, the european commission has already sent a mission of experts to chisinau, led by the directorate-general for economic and financial affairs dg ecfin, to assist the moldovan authorities in drawing up their economic programme. the objective of the mission, at its recent meeting with the chisinau authorities, was to help them assess the country's reaction to the current economic situation. the commission services used this opportunity to gather the information necessary for the preparation of a macro-financial assistance programme. the commission remains ready to continue to provide the chisinau authorities with expert advice in this area. we are also working to accelerate payments for budget support operations under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. in september, the european commission approved an increase in the ceiling for payments for budget support this year from €30.5 million to €34.5 million. of course, the purpose of our assistance, in the form of budget support, is primarily to encourage reforms in the agreed sectors, not just to fill budget gaps. but in the present situation it is not just a means of supplementing limited budgetary resources. it is also a way of helping to overcome the real difficulties faced by the people of the republic of moldova. we particularly welcome the fact that members of the european parliament have requested urgent support for the republic of moldova and in the coming months we will be calling on you to support our efforts in this regard. we are confident that parliament will swiftly approve the macro-financial assistance package for the republic of moldova when it is presented to it. this will ensure that assistance is provided in a timely manner. before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, this statement, allow me to refer briefly to the situation in transnistria. first of all, to underline how important it is not to lose sight of this issue in the context of the significant political changes taking place in the republic of moldova. the talks for the settlement of the conflict should be resumed as soon as possible in the so-called 5+2 format. we are optimistic about this because the new government has reaffirmed support for this principle in its programme. the european union is playing an increasingly important role in this process. we are counting on the new leadership in chisinau to proactively address this issue, which will help to resolve the conflict. for our part, we have just launched two packages of confidence-building projects, with funding from the european commission in the areas of health, environmental, social and economic protection. this action is part of a broader framework of our ongoing efforts to resolve the conflict. ladies and gentlemen, politically, as well as economically, the republic of moldova is at a crossroads. we are fully committed to supporting the country's future development and will continue to do our utmost to ensure that, at this critical juncture, our support is substantial, effective and timely.
on behalf of the epp group. the republic of moldova is experiencing a serious economic, financial and institutional crisis, driven by the international economic and financial context, but especially by 8 years of communist rule. the early elections in july 2009 and the victory of the alliance for european integration are an important step forward towards fulfilling the european aspirations of moldovan citizens. victory was achieved through the efforts of the parties in the alliance against the communist methods, the influence of the situation in transnistria and the influence of the russian federation. it is admirable that they have achieved this victory almost alone, managing to win the trust of the citizens. moldova needs help. the stability of the new power in chisinau depends on this, as does the future evolution of this former soviet state to the west or to the east. i'm sure moldova will receive help from many directions. we must be one of those directions. the european union has only one option - to respond positively to the efforts of the alliance for european integration in moldova, namely: to negotiate an association agreement between the european union and moldova as soon as possible, to start a constructive dialogue very quickly on visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens and to provide financial support to the republic of moldova to cover its budget deficit. the european commission must provide moldova with the much-needed macro-financial assistance as soon as possible. commissioner, i listened carefully to what you said, i am glad that the commission is paying attention to the republic of moldova and that you are preparing that macrofinancial assistance package, but everything depends on cooperation with the imf. the request is that you, the commission and the imf do not go in parallel to moldova, but that you work together so that it does not end up being the case that the imf waits for the commission and the commission waits for the imf.
on behalf of the alde group. the republic of moldova is in a very difficult economic situation. the financial crisis in the european union has affected our neighbours and it is our duty to help them. the economic crisis in moldova is not only the consequence of the global crisis, but primarily of the lack of immediate action that was required from the moment of its outbreak in the republic of moldova. thus, for electoral reasons, the former communist government has unbalanced local budgets by preferential allocations to communist-controlled administrations. in addition, it decided to maintain an artificial exchange rate between the lion and the euro at a level that was supposed to reassure the population that the new neighbouring state was unaffected by the crisis. so now, on the eve of winter, local governments risk going into default on their heating bills, and the government will have difficulty paying salaries and pensions. we welcome the launch of the negotiations of the government of the republic of moldova with the imf and the world bank and express our confidence that they will be concluded with an agreement that will take into account the economic, political and social realities of the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova should not be subjected to conditions that are impossible to meet now, given the delicate political and economic situation. we have had several occasions since april to discuss the republic of moldova in the european parliament and we all agreed that the european union should provide financial support. especially now that liberal forces with a pro-european orientation are in power. i therefore, on behalf of the liberal group, strongly urge the commission to make its proposal contain tangible offers of macro-financial assistance, because the republic of moldova needs immediate aid to cover the budget deficit which is likely to reach 14% of gross domestic product by the end of 2009. in the medium term, the eastern partnership can also be an important instrument, which must become operational as soon as possible and be given sufficient funds. we also demand that the future association agreement include the proposal to create a common, deep and comprehensive free trade area and the proposal to liberalize visas for moldovan citizens.
i too welcome the commission's intention to support the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova needs support, and it is support that must be targeted at the population; only then will the citizens of the republic of moldova gain the confidence they need to find a path to stability and growth. the macrofinancial assistance agreed here must, of course, be built as quickly as possible; things must not be delayed because if they are delayed, instead of trust we will have disappointment in moldova and, beyond that, i believe that the government in chisinau must be given political support, because after a long period of time there is at last a genuine opening up to the european union. the name that the government coalition has chosen is not accidental: there are parties that really have a different option from what moldova has meant so far. this political support is essential, all the more so as there is a risk, and i say this very strongly, that the moldovan problem will be seen as a local problem, on the verge of being seen as a problem of the romanians in the european union. it is not at all like that, it is a european problem and i am glad that today there are very different voices speaking on this subject, because moldova is close to europe and it must be supported at a time when there is this opening up; otherwise, we risk falling back into a logic of postponement and procrastination that was characteristic of the voronin government. the democratic developments and the support coming from the union can also lead to a solution of the situation in transnistria, because transnistria has been blocked, because the government in chisinau was a government that did not want to unblock and which had an ambiguous and unconstructive position. one last word, visas are required for moldovan citizens. the situation there is no worse than in the western balkans and citizens of the republic of moldova should enjoy freedom of travel.
i said it on monday here in the european parliament, moldova needs concrete gestures and not promises. the economic situation of moldova today is the most difficult of all the states on our continent. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be provided in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. this aid is intended to cover the budget deficit of 14% of gdp. the launch of negotiations for the new agreement with moldova has been a long-standing necessity. today they are possible and hopefully they will be done at a much faster pace. the chisinau parliament is in a difficult position. the risk of new elections is still present. the election of the new president, originally scheduled for tomorrow, has been postponed for another 10 days. i am delighted with the enthusiasm with which the commission is announcing the launch of these negotiations and i hope that this enthusiasm will continue. we cannot afford to disappoint the moldovan people. it needs us, europe.
madam president, the pro-european government in the republic of moldova cannot be left to become victim of the serious economic situation. i call for more substantial assistance than the package already agreed to by the commission and i insist on this. financial assistance must support the population and must support the reforms which the country has to implement, as encouraged by the union. these reforms need to be backed by enhanced and quick financial support from the union, coupled with a monitoring mechanism to ensure and support the proper management of its funds. finally, the new agreement with the republic of moldova should be an association agreement as in the case of the other countries under the european neighbourhood policy. visa liberalisation should be negotiated and helped to happen.
the economic crisis is also being strongly felt in the republic of moldova. the relationship between romania and the republic of moldova is particularly close from an economic point of view. my country is the first destination of moldovan exports and the second source of imports. however, these economic exchanges have been seriously affected by the abusive introduction of the visa regime by the former communist regime. but by eliminating them, these exchanges were relaunched. the €100 million loan promised by the commission must be urgent. in this regard, it is possible that an imf mission will be in chisinau in the near future. poland also promised substantial aid. the european union must take into account that the citizens of the republic of moldova showed their openness to europe by voting in july. the european union must now take substantial action before winter arrives, so that anti-european forces do not take advantage of the difficult situation in which the republic of moldova now finds itself. to date, no euro has reached the republic of moldova.
the will of the moldovan people has brought about a radical change in chisinau with a pro-european government that sincerely wants to commit itself to a genuine project for the republic of moldova, a european project. today, moldova is facing serious economic and social problems, and the european union must show that this symbolic word - solidarity - is good not only in election campaigns. we must show that we, the european union, can live up to the expectations of the citizens of this country. faced with the disaster left by the voronin regime, faced with the effects of the economic crisis, faced with winter, yes, winter, the republic of moldova needs help now and we must not forget, we are talking about the imf, many member states of the european union are major players in the international monetary fund and the decision must be taken now.
the increasingly encouraging messages that the european union has been sending to chisinau lately are being received with great enthusiasm there, and this is because the majority of the citizens of this country have high hopes for their european integration. these aspirations are easy to understand. the european union has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to help its partners out of difficult economic situations and that it has the necessary mechanisms in place to do so. there are, however, reasons for some concern about the danger of a decline in the enthusiasm of moldovans. first of all, because the model agreement proposed for moldova does not offer the same guarantees of integration as the one for association and stabilisation offered to the western balkan states. on the other hand, the negotiations on the agreement will take more time, as stated from the start. in my view, the european union should also quickly propose an alternative, such as a massive economic aid plan, perhaps even a mini-marshall plan for moldova.
member of the commission. − i have noticed something very important: the political support that exists at the level of parliament for strengthening relations with the republic of moldova, the country's rapprochement with the european union. i'll answer some of the questions that have been raised in the past. one of the most important was the coordination between the european commission and the international monetary fund in the provision of macro-financial assistance. as i said before, we are working closely with the imf in terms of coordinating the ways in which assistance is provided. it is still too early to say what these agreements will look like, but we believe it is possible that the european union will want to ensure that the adjustment programme includes a number of reforms that we consider essential to ensuring good governance and sustainable growth in the future. in the light of the experience of macro-financial assistance programmes for other countries, it is possible that some specific conditions may arise in the negotiations on the precise modalities of this assistance, for example, in relation to good governance, which was mentioned by several speakers, and harmonisation within the european neighbourhood policy. i want to stress once again the fact that the rules we have to follow mean that we cannot provide macroeconomic assistance alone. therefore, an agreement between the authorities of the republic of moldova and the imf is needed. without this agreement, it is not possible to grant the macrofinancial assistance that i have just mentioned. on the other hand, i want to assure you that we are coordinating with the international monetary fund. a delegation from the imf is currently in chisinau and, as i told you, our colleagues from dg fin are also in chisinau and are coordinating their dialogue with the imf and the moldovan authorities. another issue that was mentioned was what other aid the european union can give to the republic of moldova, aid that is geared towards the population, by which we show that we actually want to support not only the authorities in the republic of moldova, but also the population. i'll just give you a few examples. this community assistance has brought and will continue to bring tangible benefits to the population. we are co-financing road infrastructure projects, the modernisation of chisinau airport, the expansion of the chisinau republican hospital, which is the largest in the country, and the strengthening of primary health care. this spring we provided medical equipment worth 4.5 million euros to 60 clinics in the republic of moldova. it is the largest per capita recipient of community assistance after the palestinian territories. under the european neighbourhood policy, the assistance budget, which stood at €40 million in 2007, has risen to €62 million this year and is expected to rise further. the size of the financial assistance, both macroeconomic and other programmes and support we are providing cannot be clearly quantified at the moment. it will be quantified when we reach the stage of concluding an agreement with the authorities of the republic of moldova, an agreement that concretely responds to the needs of this country. there were two other issues that were raised. the one concerning the timetable for negotiations on a new association agreement with the republic of moldova. i want to tell you that last week the european commission sent a delegation to chisinau for technical consultations with the authorities on the negotiation of a new agreement. the agenda for these talks sets out the format, objectives and timetable of the negotiations, as well as the elements of the future agreement. so we're in negotiations on this matter. the last point i want to make is the issue of visa liberalization. in line with the joint declaration of 7 may 2009 which marked the launch of the eastern partnership, the european union will take gradual steps towards visa liberalisation with a long-term objective in relation to each partner country of this partnership. the conditions are: meeting the requirements related to good governance and security, and ensuring the security of mobility. at this stage, the european commission looks forward with particular interest to the council's discussion of the launch of a structured dialogue on visa liberalisation with the republic of moldova. until then, we have strongly urged and continue to urge the authorities of the republic of moldova to continue with the reforms in the area of justice, freedom and security, which will undoubtedly facilitate the discussions on visa facilitation.
in writing. the european commission's report on the economic and financial situation of the republic of moldova leaves no room for interpretation: the chisinau government is going through a difficult time caused not only by the global economic recession, but also by the economic decisions that were wrong or too long delayed by the former power. beyond that, the certainties we are working with at the moment are that the republic of moldova has clearly stated its european option and wants to be much more than just a state on the border of the union. at this moment, moldova is looking for support to get out of the economic slump, looking for allies. the eu's role in the region is to provide a framework for the development of the region and to ensure that the eu's role in the region is not undermined by the political and economic crisis. we live in a global, interconnected europe and no government can work miracles on its own, especially when they are expected overnight by a people forgotten for too long by their own leaders. a hand extended by europe to moldova, a closer proximity of chisinau to brussels means a greater confidence of investors in this country. and in the long run, that translates into stability and evolution.
in writing. the republic of moldova has made a difficult journey towards democracy and turned its face towards europe. the new government majority in chisinau, however, holds fragile positions, as shown by the postponement of the parliamentary vote for the appointment of the president of the republic. at the same time, the difficult economic situation facing the new government may have serious social and political repercussions. in these circumstances, there is a need for urgent and massive support from the european union on several fronts, including the three components of the future association agreement: the political agreement, the free trade agreement and visa liberalisation. financial support is crucial to ensure the stability of this state and to encourage democratic and economic reforms, and the eu and imf need to channel substantial macroeconomic support to cover the budget deficit and social costs of the next period. i hope that the presidential elections in moldova and the changes that will occur at the level of the european commission and the eu presidency will not affect the priority of european assistance to this country in our immediate neighbourhood, on whose territory the frozen conflict is closest to the eu's borders. this is not to be overlooked, because it directly affects the stability of eastern europe and the security of european borders.
in writing. the swedish presidency's announcement that it will start negotiations for a new agreement with the republic of moldova as soon as possible, to replace the current partnership and cooperation agreement, is more than welcome in the new political context in the country. the european vocation of the republic of moldova was strengthened by the pro-european majority formed in the parliament in chisinau. i believe that, especially now, at a time when the economic crisis is deeply felt, the republic of moldova must be supported by the european union, including financially, by identifying mechanisms to encourage the acceleration of reforms in the republic of moldova, reforms that bring this state closer to its desired accession. the mechanisms of economic cooperation and trade agreements are powerful tools for the implementation of the european vocation of the republic of moldova. trade preferences granted by the european union since 2006, and moldova's participation in cefta since 2007, together with all the western balkan states, some of which are candidates for accession, connect the country's economy to the european single market and represent a precursor to its eu integration. i believe that the european institutions must attach particular importance to political as well as economic and trade relations with the republic of moldova.
it's a great power issue, but it's a human rights issue. civilians, minorities and democracy are always the victims of the great powers. where there is divorce and division, where instead of security, there is mistrust, where instead of negotiation, weapons speak. what can be done? the european union must be authentic. the eu must have a minority policy that guarantees the rights to the mother tongue, culture and autonomy in france, romania, greece and slovakia. the key to the position of russia, georgia, south ossetia and abkhazia is in the eu. we have to solve it here and set an example for these countries.
in writing. − i did not vote for the initiative to create a €300 million fund as immediate support for milk producers because i believe that dairy producers are facing a price collapse that is leading to uncertainty, and the position of the socialist and democrats group in the european parliament (s&d) for a €600 million fund would have been a much faster and more effective action to tackle the causes, but above all the effects, that have led to this severe damage to the dairy market that persists amidst the current economic crisis. i also believe that the package of support measures adopted by the european commission comes rather late and that the €600 million fund would have been a real support for the member states facing this crisis.
in writing. - i voted for the creation of a new milk fund to help producers overcome the crisis in the sector, although this support should have been provided for long before. i regret that our vote was not able to bring in the 600 billion euro that was envisaged in the initiative report voted on by the agri committee on 1 september and that the socialist group would have wanted. if eu farmers cannot benefit from more eu support, it is because of the weak will of the european right.
author. − mr president, when you look into the situation of guinea and learn about the atrocities that have taken place there in recent months, the first legitimate question to ask is why it has had so little media coverage. there have been only a few lines here and there, as though there had not been hundreds of people killed, terrible acts of torture and horrifying acts of rape aimed at annihilating human dignity. it is true that various international institutions have condemned the military junta that came to power after a coup d’état, but i believe that much more should have been done to raise awareness among ordinary citizens, including european citizens. this is why i am pleased that at least the european parliament, speaking on behalf of the citizens who sent us here, has an appropriate reaction and the resolution we will vote on today appropriately addresses it. however, i consider that what is of the utmost importance is not only to criticise and condemn the current regime but also to eliminate any possibility of european funds intended to help the people of guinea being misappropriated.
the author. - september 28 is an important day for the people of guinea, because it is the day the independence referendum took place. this year, september 28 will also be a day to remember the massacre that the violent power in conakry has carried out against its opponents. the maintenance of this military team in power is unacceptable. and, in fact, over time, captain dadis camara, who has been installed in power, has promised to abandon the race, to not show up. the african union's ultimatum has recently expired. it is obvious that when the military comes to power, they lie and that their words are not to be taken at face value. the need for democratic governance based on elections is therefore urgent and the international community must press for it.
the author. - i too want to deplore the worsening human rights situation in iran following the june elections. signs of this worsening are, of course, the mass arrests and violence against dissidents. also, as mentioned earlier, freedom of information is seriously threatened, endangered by the persecution of journalists. a major sign of concern is that both torture and the death penalty are widely practiced in iran. amnesty international has also recently revealed that the number of people convicted and executed has increased significantly since the elections. finally, i would like to express my support for the idea of establishing, creating a european union delegation in tehran; such a delegation can work with civil society on the ground, thus supporting the rights of freedom fighters.
mr president, the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is indeed a historical event. we should applaud it. we should be happy about it. we should congratulate ourselves and certainly we should congratulate the swedish presidency for the fact that they achieved this result. a treaty, however, is not enough. even the most perfect treaty could not, by itself, solve many of the problems. we need inspired and competent people to enhance it. in the case of the lisbon treaty, this is even more important since this treaty is the result of endless compromises, long discussions and long debates. therefore, unavoidably, it is has a lot of ambiguities and gaps. it is for the future top decision-makers to clarify things, to fine-tune the rules, to shape the institutions, to give the right interpretation to all provisions of the treaty and to detail the job description. the coming mandate, the coming legislature, will be crucial for the european union architecture of the future. if we want this architecture to be viable, it must be a synthesis of all the historical experiences, cultural sensitivities and political traditions of all european regions and all european citizens. therefore we need the team formed by the first three functions in the european union – the president of the council, the president of the commission and the high representative – to include all political sensitivities, all regions, and all geopolitical, cultural and geographical regions of europe. i believe that this will be achieved and i believe that, if this is achieved, it will be good for the viability of the architecture and the effectiveness of the institution, but also for the credibility of the union in the eyes of all our citizens.
i very much appreciate what president reinfeldt said and i particularly welcome the fact that the european council in october reached a common position of the european union for the copenhagen conference. the european union has already taken strong action on its own to combat climate change, making progress towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions. but it is clear that its singular effort cannot guarantee full success in international negotiations. i think it is very important for the european union that the transition to a reduction target of more than 20% be made only with the maintenance of certain conditionalities without which we believe that the eu effort would be too great. conditionalities should relate in particular to the legally binding nature of the future agreement and the commitment of developed countries to concrete emission reduction targets comparable to those of the eu and, respectively, the corresponding contributions of developing countries.
i welcome the adoption by the european council of the baltic sea strategy. it is a model that the european union must apply to the danube region as well, thus contributing to the economic development, economic and social cohesion of the danube region and, not least, to the competitiveness of the european union. the european union will take part in the copenhagen conference as a leader in the fight against climate change. the european union has already unilaterally committed itself to the 20-20-20 target. the energy-climate change package is part of community legislation and is being implemented. i call on the european union to rapidly establish an effective and innovative community framework for financing the eco-efficient economy. the european union must also focus on financing its own climate change adaptation measures. last but not least, the european union must be able to generate investment in industry and public services to secure jobs.
in writing. implementing legislation on the marketing of emission allowances involves costs that will be distributed differently in each country, depending on the economic structure of that country. some countries already have a wider range of options that allow them to reduce emissions without significantly increasing energy prices. countries still undergoing energy sector restructuring would feel the impact of these measures disproportionately at the consumer level, relative to the ability to bear the costs of the changes. a country that has a large contribution of wind energy in its energy mix has allowed itself to invest in renewable energy, as it has already developed by polluting. on the other hand, a country that still relies heavily on coal-fired power generation has a technological gap that it needs to close and, at the same time, reduce its emissions. eastern european countries are in this latter situation. for this reason, i believe that the decision on financing climate change must take this into account and exclude the countries of the latest waves of accession from paying contributions that would place an undue burden on these economies.
in writing. during this period, the european council pays particular attention to the economic and financial situation in the european union. the global financial crisis has hit european states, citizens and businesses very hard. as the unemployment situation in europe is expected to continue to deteriorate, a continued commitment to active labour market policies is needed. the european commission forecasts the unemployment rate for the 27 member states at 10.25%. the council and the commission should continue their work on exit strategies, in collaboration with the european parliament and the member states, through the implementation of the european economic recovery plan. the timing of governments' exit from crisis strategies should take into account the circumstances and commitments of each member state. in the case of romania, the agreements with the european union and the international monetary fund are scheduled to cover 2009 and 2010, and therefore any termination of this financial support interrupts the anti-crisis programme that romania has initiated. it is regrettable that the instability caused by the blocking of the parliamentary majority in romania (psd+pc, pnl, udmr) calls into question the receipt of the third tranche from the imf.
in writing. first of all, i welcome the ratification of the treaty of lisbon by the czech republic. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december and the new interinstitutional relations it provides for will enable the european union's representatives to deal more effectively with the consequences of both the economic and financial crisis and the copenhagen negotiations to combat climate change. signs of economic recovery should not imply an immediate phasing out of support policies, as this could have a negative impact on the economy in the long term. i also hope that member states will agree to develop a coordinated strategy to withdraw the stimulus measures when the time is right. we also expect future agreement on a package of proposals to establish a new financial supervisory structure for the european union. last but not least, let us not forget that european citizens will now turn more and more towards a strengthened europe and will expect the union to improve the employment situation for the coming years. this is why the european institutions must promote new active labour market policies as soon as possible.
in writing. i support the positions of the european commission and the european council as set out in the documents presented. the copenhagen conference is approaching and the eu must play a key role in negotiating a comprehensive and ambitious global agreement to combat climate change. the european council conclusions mention the funding needed, at global and european level, to combat the negative effects of climate change, such as drought, fires and floods that cause so many victims and damage each year. i believe that the eu should give financial support to the most consistent extent possible to the actions of the states on irrigation, building, afforestation and encouraging the production of renewable, solar, wind, bio and hydro energy. we also saw a great need for eu financial support at the level of municipalities and citizens who do not have the funds to make their buildings energy efficient. the eu must continue to pay greater attention to this issue if the citizen is to remain at the centre of european policies.
in writing. unilateral eu action, although a leader in tackling climate change, is not enough. a global agreement on climate change mitigation and adaptation will not be possible without the involvement of developing countries, especially the most advanced. the effects of climate change are already affecting the development of these countries: droughts, floods, natural disasters, desertification, with all its economic and social consequences. all mitigation and adaptation actions require a robust measurement, reporting and verification mechanism, as well as a well-managed public and private funding pool. these joint efforts will contribute to the achievement of the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing a sustainable economy and creating green jobs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, debates on russia very often divide us into ideologists and pragmatists, confrontational geo-strategists and conciliatorists, cold war veterans and new utilitarian opportunists. i think that it is high time to move away from these dilemmatic manichaeisms and to make clear points concerning our wish to engage in a constructive and efficient dialogue with russia. as far as i am concerned, we should always show firmness from the strategic point of view, but flexibility from the tactical point of view, in our relations with russia. we should always defend our values and interests, but we should also show empathy and respect for the aspirations and interests of russia. this is the only basis on which we could develop confidence and mutual trust and find mutually efficient and acceptable solutions. on a more concrete point, we must transform our eastern neighbourhood from an area of rivalries into an area of common strategies and common projects. a common strategy for the black sea area should perhaps slowly complement our synergy and give more substance to our present approach. within this context, we have to approach the issue of frozen conflicts in a very fair and open way and leave aside any taboos in trying to find solutions on a pragmatic basis. we must also help russia to meet its objective need to avoid being trapped as a possible oil- and gas-dependent power, while we have to achieve our independence from an energy point of view. we have to look for something more imaginative in order to find true cooperation, technological cooperation and exploitation cooperation, opening the markets in the field of energy. we must look together with russia to a new global security arrangement or agreement. i think that the medvedev initiative should not be immediately rejected. some think that there is an agenda behind this initiative which we cannot accept. others think that there is no agenda and it is a mere test of our reactions. whatever is behind it, our current security arrangements are rooted in different times and we have to update them. we have to see what is still valid and we have to add something new to them. my last point is that we have to take advantage of the new transatlantic relations in order to perhaps achieve a trilateral russia-united states-europe dialogue. we also have to think of such a trilateral approach in order at least to be sure that russia and the united states will not cut deals without our participation.
i would like to congratulate the authors of the resolution on the harmonization of the views of the political groups. the stockholm summit is a good opportunity to show our countries that we can be united. although we speak 23 languages, we can speak with one voice when it comes to defending our economic, political and energy interests. the european union must pay particular attention to energy security, both by ensuring constant supply from russia and by developing alternative projects such as nabucco and the pan-european constanta-trieste oil pipeline. for us romanians, energy security means security in the black sea area. european energy policy can be affected by frozen conflicts in this area. it is also necessary to change the mindset of the spheres of influence to that of the spheres of trust. russia must cooperate with the european union in this area of the greatest interest. energy security also affects the development of projects of vital interest to the development of the european union.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? thank you for a very good debate. i think most of us would agree that russia is a strategic partner of the eu and that those relations are important. it must be a partnership based on respect for each other, for our common commitments and also for the values that the european union stands for in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. we must be very clear here and i think that those who criticised me, such as mrs rosbach, probably did not hear my opening speech, because i was very clear on this point: we are concerned about the human rights situation in russia. russia is an important neighbor to us. of course, we have many unresolved issues and none of us think that we will solve all the issues at the stockholm summit. but it's a valuable opportunity to meet and discuss. we have some common issues that we may be able to get a little closer to resolving. it could be about the middle east and afghanistan, and now it is of course very much about the climate summit in copenhagen. it is also about the financial and economic crisis and common commitments there, and it is about energy relations, accession to the wto and various types of security policy foreign policy issues. we need to work together to resolve conflicts in our common area. it is about identifying concrete issues where both parties benefit from cooperation. we're going to do it in a proper and respectful manner without compromising our values. i hope that the summit will also help to strengthen our strategic partnership and to pave the way for constructive cooperation between us, and that would be good. i have read the resolution to which several of you have referred and which i understand you will be voting on tomorrow. i think it is a very good resolution and i think it is excellent that both the commission and the council and the european parliament in general have a very broad consensus on these issues. because it's like so many of you are saying, we need to have a voice when we talk to russia. if we are united and if we have a clear and constructive dialogue, it is good for russia, it is good for the eu and it is good for many issues on the european and global stage.
member of the commission. − madam president, russia is a strategic partner on the one hand but also a neighbour, and as a neighbour it is more complicated. however, especially at a time of economic uncertainty, i think it is all the more important to ensure that the relationship between europe and russia works as effectively as possible to deliver security, stability and prosperity for our citizens and also for russia’s citizens. we must therefore redouble our efforts to find common ground on issues where our views differ – for instance on human rights questions or on questions on the common neighbourhood – but also to keep the door open for dialogue and debate that respects our differences but also respects our common commitments. this is, so to say, the general line. now let me say a few very specific things. russia’s wto accession is, and remains, a key objective for us. in so saying, it is time to resolve several issues that remain outstanding in this trade relationship. some of these, such as the transnistrian overflight charges, have been on our agenda for many years. they have always been mentioned at the many summits i have been on. others, such as the proposed decree limiting the transport of containers by road, are more recent, and i personally – and all the commission services – raise these issues whenever we talk to russia. indeed we just had a permanent partnership council, but of course we could again do so. the second item i want to mention is energy. the european union and russia are, as i said, also important partners in the energy field. the relation is one of interdependence, which offers both sides a strong motivation to put our energy relations on a predictable and also on a concrete basis. ensuring an unhindered and uninterrupted energy supply to the european union, thus preventing and overcoming emergency situations, is therefore of utmost importance. this is what we aim to achieve with, for instance, the early warning mechanism on which we are working and where it is important that we work with the ministry of energy of the russian federation. we have discussed this issue and i do hope that we can move on. on ukraine and, especially, the transit of gas, we at the commission have been working with the ukrainian authorities, but also with the international financial institutions, on a loan package that would address both payment difficulties for the storage of gas from russia and the reform and modernisation of the ukrainian gas sector. an agreement was reached at the end of july, thus paving the way for financial assistance by the international financial institutions based on the implementation of a number of conditionalities. we hope that it will really work, and we also have to make sure that there is a very clear and transparent legal basis for the energy relationship. this is what we are aiming for, particularly in our new agreement. with regard to human rights, i did speak about human rights. we have spoken about human rights whenever we have been at the summit. i would like to say a few words on the death penalty, because this is, of course, not acceptable for us according to our community of values. yes, the constitutional court in russia is debating this issue at the moment, but we were told that there are indications that the court will conclude that russia is bound by its signature of protocol 6 of the european convention on human rights and thus will most probably not apply the death penalty. let us hope that this will indeed be true. as i mentioned before, russia itself has, as a member of the un, as a member of the osce and the council of europe, entered into very important commitments on human rights. these are always discussed in our eu-russia human rights consultations. as these just took place in stockholm on 5 november, i did not go into any details, but everybody who is informed knows about that. my last point is indeed a positive one: youth cooperation in science and technology. yes, as mr fleckenstein mentioned, stimulating exchanges and cooperation between young people from the european union and from russia is a key concern for us and we are making our programmes available for this purpose. these have proven beneficial within the european union itself, for instance tempus and erasmus mundus, and this is also an avenue we should continue to explore. in this context again, we are launching the negotiation of russia’s association to the european community framework programme on research and technological development. that is also an area of enormous economic potential. i think again that the scope of our relationship is enormous. there is a lot to be discussed and we do not always see eye to eye with russia, but we can always debate on every issue, and this is what we do.
in writing. europe is entering the winter with the threat of a gas crisis similar to the one that hit earlier this year, when dependence on russian gas was more evident than ever. the scenario of last winter risks repeating itself this year, as prime minister putin recently warned, again amid a dispute with ukraine. under these conditions, the alternative to russian gas, the nabucco project, becomes a necessity. gas supplies to europe cannot depend on the russian-ukrainian conflict. it is imperative that all the union's structures make nabucco a priority, as the european council decided in march. the eu must speak with one voice on the nabucco project. it is in russia's interest to have access to caspian gas, and a determined and united europe would bring russia to the same table. we're not dealing with a design competition, we're not talking about northstream versus southstream. we're talking about a shared interest in securing an alternative source of gas. the european institutions must also make a strong appeal to russia and ukraine not to allow the arrogance of geopolitical or electoral interests to affect the security of the union's people and economies.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the proposal for a council recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease, adopted by the commission on 22 july, is based on article 165 of the treaty. the article refers to the coordination of research and technological development activities between the community and the member states, with the specific aim of ensuring greater coherence between the policies of the member states and those of the community. article 165 and the objectives of the joint programming initiatives are in line. they are based on our joint identification of the challenges facing our societies collectively and our ability to agree on common or coordinated responses to these challenges through increased political commitment by member states. the aim is, of course, to increase the efficiency of public research funding in europe. but i think the problem and the heart of your question is that article 165 does not give the council the right to act. the article provides the legal basis for the commission to take any initiative to promote coordination between member states and community policies. there is no other legal basis in the treaty under the heading of research on which the commission could base its proposals for action on joint programming initiatives. there is of course a very strong political commitment within the council to launch pilot initiatives for joint programming dedicated specifically to the fight against alzheimer's disease as soon as possible. in the light of this, the presidency considers that the council should adopt conclusions on this joint programming initiative on the basis of the text presented by the commission. i know that the european parliament attaches high priority to the fight against alzheimer's disease. in your february statement, parliament called on the commission and the member states to recognise this struggle as a priority in the field of european public health. you are, of course, aware of the commission's proposal. the presidency will endeavour to ensure that parliament's views are incorporated as far as possible in the conclusions to be adopted when the competitiveness council meets on 3 december this year. as regards possible future joint programming initiatives, the council shares the member's view that a common approach should be adopted to adopt these initiatives under the heading of research. unfortunately, at the moment there is only one way to do this, namely to adopt council conclusions for each individual initiative. this is because the treaty does not provide an appropriate legal basis for adopting other measures.
on behalf of the epp group. the swedish presidency intends to adopt conclusions on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases in december without waiting for the opinion of parliament on this issue. i was the rapporteur on the opinion of the envi committee on this matter and, in these circumstances, i support the adoption of a resolution expressing parliament's position on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease, by jointly planning research. neurodegenerative diseases are a major health problem in europe. advances in medical science and living standards in developed lands have led to an increase in life expectancy and the number of people afflicted with neurodegenerative diseases. it's a multi-faceted issue. there are aspects of the quality of life of those affected by these diseases, the impact that the disease has on those close to them or on the people who care for them. it is also a question of the sustainability of health systems, which will have to cope with an increasing number of patients as the ageing population increases the proportion of people who are no longer active in the labour market. the commission proposal focuses on research-related issues. the resolution we are proposing emphasizes both the results of coordinated research and the extent to which it will improve the present situation. i therefore call for a two-pronged approach, both in terms of scientific research and in terms of the quality of care that patients can receive. given the interest that parliament has shown over time in this area and the importance of this dossier, which is a pilot project for joint research programming, it is essential that parliament's position is taken into account in the drafting of the council conclusions. parliament must be involved in all future joint programming initiatives in the field of research and article 182 of the lisbon treaty provides an appropriate legal basis for future developments in this area.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? alzheimer's and other dementia-related diseases are terrible. i think many of us who have seen a loved one with alzheimer's see what it does to break down a previously healthy person and how painful it is for family and loved ones, and i feel very strongly that we should invest more resources in researching this terrible disease. it is clear that we need to take new steps to better coordinate our knowledge and research in europe, and the commission's pilot initiative aims to mobilise the best scientists we have to try to understand, cure and prevent both alzheimer's and other dementia-related diseases. in the trio of cooperation between france, the czech republic and now sweden, we discussed early on the importance of raising alzheimer's as a common priority in public health work. the french presidency had a very important conference to which one of the honourable members referred, and the swedish presidency had a conference on ageing with dignity in september, where alzheimer's was one of the items on the agenda. as i said, the council intends to adopt conclusions on this on 3 december, and we will of course take account of the excellent resolution which you have written and which you will be voting on tomorrow. i am convinced that the issue of alzheimer's will be brought back into the framework of the research programme and similar initiatives in the very near future, so thank you very much for raising this very important issue.
in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal for a recommendation on joint programming of research in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. the mental health of the population is essential for an adequate level of quality of life. this type of disease is affecting more and more people in the eu, so efforts are needed to tackle the underlying factors that trigger these diseases. but to combat these factors, we need to discover them through research. the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's research and innovation policy and the development of the european research area. collaboration based on networks of national research centres and joint exploitation of the necessary infrastructure is also all the more useful as not all member states have the resources to undertake research activities on their own, despite facing high numbers of cases of neurodegenerative diseases. it will be essential that research results are used to inform the population about ways to promote mental health, thus helping to reduce the number of patients and to maintain the viability of national public health systems.
i would like to draw your attention to the political situation in romania and its impact on romania's relations with the community institutions. in october 2009 the social democratic party left the government. the newly formed opposition dismissed the government in a motion of no confidence, rejected the first government proposal and refused to participate in the negotiations for the formation of a government. therefore, the obligations assumed by romania towards the european commission, the world bank and the imf, together with the contracting of loans, cannot be fulfilled. that is why we are in a situation where some of the commitments made on state reform cannot be met on time. political instability in romania has been generated by the political actions of the social democratic party mainly. the reasons are not just electoral in nature, but also aim to stop reforms in the medium term in the areas of administration, rule of law, justice and anti-corruption.
the president of the world athra kadisha organization, chief rabbi david schmidl, has asked me to be, quote, "their spokesman in the european union", where they want a commission to be set up to deal with any complaints about desecration of cemetery land, and the geneva treaty should be updated and improved. i won't give concrete examples and i won't blame anyone, but i have seen with my own eyes photographs of jewish cemeteries where horses and cows graze on graves, i have seen images of tombstones turned into rudimentary toilets, but i have also seen 2,000-year-old jewish catacombs where sacred human remains are in a deplorable state, and in the cemeteries that remain bulldozers and excavators have entered, tearing up the bones. this is a great sin in the sight of god. the holocaust is a tragic scar on the face of humanity and it must not be repeated even in miniature. i, for one, took my children on a pilgrimage to auschwitz and please believe me i know what i'm talking about. these people are asking us that the european parliament should protect all the vestiges of all religions, not only jewish, but also romanian, in europe. (the speaker was interrupted by the president)
i too would like to stress the importance of freedom of movement as a fundamental right and reaffirm that many citizens in the western balkan countries will enjoy this right. hi, obviously, this opening. i am also sorry that this report in no way contains any reference to a country in the eastern partnership which i believe should be associated with moldova, at least symbolically. this is a country that has made a lot of progress in the political order, this is moldova. i think today the strongest wall we know in europe is on the eastern border between romania and moldova, and i think that's something to be deplored.
as the representative of a country that has benefited from balance of payments financial assistance from the european commission, romania, i would like to thank the european commission for the speed with which it has acted towards the granting of balance of payments financial assistance, without which romania's economic and social problems would have been much more difficult. of course there are many social problems in these countries that have received financial assistance and we can discuss what kind of social conditionality might be in these financial assistance agreements. and if we put it this way, we have to take into account that there are insurance and welfare systems in these countries that have contributed to the imbalances that have required financial assistance to the balance of payments. so if we are talking about social conditionality, we have to talk about the reforms that need to be made to these social sectors, first of all the pension system, so that we can achieve financial sustainability in the medium and long term that will contribute to solving the problems in these countries.
the financial crisis led some member states to call on the eu for assistance (council regulation (ec) no 332/2002 of 18 february 2002) and on the international community for assistance (international monetary fund). this support should be directed both towards ensuring adequate conditions for protection and social inclusion and towards putting in place an enabling framework for economic development and job creation. between march 2008 and may 2009, the unemployment rate in the eu27 reached 8.9%, with the number of unemployed rising from 5.4 million to 21.5 million. the main concern of european citizens is the loss of jobs. the european union and its member states must be able to preserve existing jobs and create new ones, and this can be done by investing effectively in agriculture, education, health, transport and energy infrastructure. every european citizen who loses his job means a european family with lower incomes and an implicit decline in the quality of life. every job created means a family with a decent living and quality education for the younger generation. the success of the european model is determined by the quality of life of 500 million european citizens.
in writing. – much of the debate about honduras is focussed, understandably, on the political crisis - but the effects go far beyond politics. honduras is the second poorest country in latin america, and the economic and social impacts of the political crisis are hitting the 70 percent of the population which already lives in poverty. tourism has almost stopped, the suspension of foreign aid is having a direct effect on public investment, and overstretched and underequipped hospitals are struggling to cope - not just with the usual problems caused by poor sanitation, malnutrition and disease - but now also with the victims of increased street violence, including beatings and even killings by government forces. human rights and development organisations cannot do their valuable work because their staff are not protected by normal constitutional rights; instead, they face a curfew, detention without charge, and other violations of individual freedoms. this crisis extends far beyond the political deadlock and the battles between key political figures - it is about ordinary people whose day-to-day struggle has been made even harder during the last four months. every effort must be made to ensure free and fair elections and the immediate resumption of constitutional rights and foreign aid to alleviate the suffering of ordinary people.
european ombudsman. − mr president, thank you for this opportunity to address parliament on my annual report for 2008. i wish to thank the committee on petitions, and especially the chair, mrs mazzoni and the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, for their helpful and constructive report. i enjoy an excellent working relationship with the committee. it offers me valuable support and advice whilst fully respecting my duty, as ombudsman, of impartiality and independence. parliament and the ombudsman both work to ensure that citizens and residents of the eu can enjoy their rights to the full. we do so in different ways. the ombudsman’s mandate is more limited; i can only deal with complaints against eu institutions and bodies, whilst the petitions committee can also examine what member states are doing. furthermore, parliament is a sovereign political body and can deal with petitions that request changes in the law, or even new laws. in contrast, my role is in dealing with complaints, helping complainants uncover maladministration and attempting to put it right. unlawful behaviour, when it falls within my mandate, is always a form of maladministration. however, it is not enough for eu institutions and bodies merely to follow the law. they must also act consistently and in good faith. they must act in accordance with the rules and principles which they have adopted, and they must demonstrate that they are service-minded, for example, by acting fairly, reasonably and courteously. indeed the generation and maintenance of a culture of service to citizens lies at the very heart of the principle of good administration. the ombudsman’s privileged relationship with parliament is key to ensuring results for citizens. unlike court rulings, an ombudsman’s decisions are not legally binding. i can only use the power of persuasion to convince eu institutions and bodies to follow my recommendations. where they refuse to do so, it is of fundamental importance that the ombudsman can turn to parliament to seek its support. for instance, when an institution does not comply with a recommendation in a case which raises fundamental questions of principle, i can issue a special report to parliament. one example from 2008 was the refusal of the commission to change its stance in an age discrimination case. i was gratified that parliament dealt with this report expeditiously and that mr martínez martínez’s report, adopted by plenary in may 2009 without a single vote against, reflected entirely the concerns i had raised. my annual report records the progress made in handling complaints, promoting good administration and providing information about the ombudsman’s role. as explained in its opening pages, strenuous efforts have been made to improve its user-friendliness so that readers can easily obtain a clear and comprehensive account of the ombudsman’s work. it has also now proven possible to publish the report much earlier in the year than before. in addition, a new six-page overview has been produced. this new publication records the most important results obtained for complainants, and highlights the main policy issues dealt with over the past year. the ombudsman closed a record number of enquiries in 2008 – 355 to be exact – with most taking less than a year. i am happy to say that the eu institutions and bodies have shown that in general they are keen to resolve issues that i bring to their attention. the increased number of friendly solutions and settlement of cases is both positive and praiseworthy. eight cases closed in 2008 exemplify best practice among the institutions and bodies in responding to issues i raised. the institutions and bodies concerned are the commission, the council, the court of justice, epso, olaf and the european aviation safety agency. the eight star cases are included in the report as models of good administrative behaviour for all institutions and bodies. let me briefly mention just two of these cases. the commission was constructive throughout the procedure concerning a payment dispute. as a result, the company concerned received more than eur 100 000 in outstanding payments. epso agreed to disclose to candidates, at their request, the evaluation criteria used in selection procedures, as well as a breakdown of individual marks. in 2008 the ombudsman registered a total of 3 406 complaints. this represents a 6% increase compared to 2007. in almost 80% of all cases registered, help was provided to the complainant by opening an inquiry, transferring the complaint to a competent body or giving advice. often such advice is to contact a member of the european network of ombudsmen. this network now consists of roughly 95 offices in 32 countries and includes the committee on petitions. one of its purposes is to facilitate the rapid transfer of complaints to the competent body. in 2008 for example, 191 complainants were either advised to petition parliament or their complaints were directly transferred to the committee on petitions. of course it is much better if complainants can identify the most appropriate avenue of redress the first time around. this helps avoid the frustration involved for citizens who are told that the body that they have turned to is not able to help them. it also means that complaints are resolved more promptly and effectively, thus ensuring that citizens can fully enjoy their rights under eu law. a very important initiative in this area came to fruition earlier this year. my office launched an entirely new website, including an interactive guide in all 23 languages, to help citizens address directly the body best equipped to deal with their complaint. this body may be my own department, the committee on petitions, the national ombudsman’s department in the complainant’s member state of origin, or the cross-border online network, solvit. so far this year over 23 000 people have used the guide to obtain advice. in 2008 by far the most common allegation i examined was lack of transparency in the eu administration. this allegation arose in 36% of all inquiries and included refusal of information or documents. it is with a certain degree of concern that i have noted this high percentage. an accountable and transparent eu administration is, and must remain, key to building citizens’ trust in the eu. of particular importance regarding transparency in 2008 was the commission’s proposal to reform regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents. the commission has proposed changes to this regulation, some of which would be very beneficial. however, in my estimation, some other proposed changes would result in citizens having access to fewer, not more, documents. the lisbon treaty changes the legal and political context of the regulation by giving citizens more opportunities to participate in the activities of the union. its entry into force will provide a good opportunity for the commission to submit a new proposal that would reflect this new reality and would strengthen the fundamental right of access to documents of the eu’s institutions and bodies. the support of parliament was crucial in securing the revision of the ombudsman’s statute in 2008. the changes effected strengthen the ombudsman’s powers of investigation, thereby ensuring that citizens can have full confidence in the ombudsman’s ability to conduct a thorough investigation of their complaints without restrictions. allow me to conclude by recalling that my task is to promote good administration in eu institutions and bodies. maximising transparency and accountability, and promoting and helping entrench a culture of service to citizens, are key factors in the fulfilment of this task. i am confident that our two institutions will continue to work closely in pursuit of the shared goal of helping citizens and residents to enjoy their rights fully in a transparent and accountable european union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, for a very good report, and the committee on petitions for its enduring and important work. of course, my thanks also go to the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, for his thorough and complete annual report. as the ombudsman pointed out when he presented his annual report back in april this year, the crucial work is about building citizens’ trust in the eu. it will come as no surprise that i totally agree with that. i do not have much time at my disposal, so would like to concentrate on just a few important points. the paliadeli report offers a clear, exhaustive overview of the ombudsman’s activities for the past year, and the new presentation for statistics and new layout makes this report accessible and easy to read. in 2008, the commission contributed an opinion to the negotiations on the review of the ombudsman’s statute. we took an active part in the interinstitutional work to reach a satisfactory solution. we can all be proud of the result, which is the new statute. i believe it is a result that citizens will benefit from. regarding complaints to the ombudsman, we saw a 6% increase compared with 2007. as you know, 66% of the enquiries focused on the commission. i do not see this as particularly strange. after all, the commission is a fairly big institution with many more areas of responsibility likely to be targeted by complainants, but of course the figures can and should be improved. that is also true of the fact that the most frequent claims for maladministration concern a lack of transparency – namely 36% of all enquiries. such figures need to be brought down by all institutions. a different, but related, subject is that of the treatment of information relating to business secrets and confidential information. recently, we have seen some difficulties in relation to competition files. for this reason we need to define modalities for the treatment of classified information, documents and other information covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. the commission has been working hard on this issue and we will soon be able to submit a proposal to the ombudsman. another positive development is the increase in the number of friendly solutions, as we have already heard. in 2008, 36% of all investigations were either settled by the institution complained against or resulted in a friendly solution. for the commission, i am glad to say that the trend is definitely moving in the right direction. this shows both an awareness and an acknowledgement of the ombudsman’s work, as well as respect for the complainants. my second-to-last point is about the call made in the draft resolution for a common approach to a code of good administrative behaviour. as you know, the commission has its own code, and that is broadly in line with the requirements of the ombudsman. this important matter is best brought forward by first having a constructive interinstitutional debate and dialogue before presenting a legislative proposal. my last point is about communication in practice. here i want to commend the ombudsman on his new website. just like the annual report, it is thorough, complete and user-friendly. when it comes to developing an interactive handbook to help citizens identify the most appropriate forum for solving their problems, i firmly believe that this excellent new website tackles the problem. the work should not be duplicated, but be given enhanced visibility. from the commission’s side, we have tried to contribute to this, and the new europa website does exactly that. it enhances visibility and citizens can easily find the ombudsman’s guide in a couple of clicks. so, all in all, in 2008 we saw both progress and possibilities for further improvements by our institutions. i would again like to thank mr diamandouros for his achievements and important work and mrs paliadeli for her excellent report.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, on her excellent report. secondly, as coordinator of the committee on petitions and as a member of the committee for many years, i would like to welcome and note the excellent cooperation and collaboration that i have had with the european ombudsman, nikiforos diamandouros, on a continuous basis. as coordinator of the socialists and democrats in the committee on petitions, i am concerned about the high number of cases where alleged maladministration was caused by a lack of transparency in the european institutions. i would like to stress that both the european parliament and the commission have a duty to remedy this problem. it is our duty to restore the confidence of european citizens in the european institutions. complaints to the ombudsman, as well as petitions to the committee on petitions, should be seen as an opportunity to correct errors and inaccuracies in the functioning of the european institutions and european legislation for the benefit of european citizens. in this context, the social democratic group held an information seminar last week, attended by a large group of journalists, on the right to petition as a means of bringing the european union closer to its citizens. i would like to support the suggestion made in this report to set up a common website of the european institutions, designed to help citizens directly identify the institution that is able to resolve their complaint. finally, i would like to support the european ombudsman's initiative to strengthen cooperation with national ombudsmen or similar institutions in a joint effort to build the trust of european citizens.
i'd like to thank the ombudsman for his work. if i were to do this in greek, the house would think that the greek lobby had been set in motion with the ombudsman, the rapporteur and the speakers. but it is precisely in the interests of trust and transparency that we should ensure that the next report on the ombudsman's activities is adopted in time, before the start of the ombudsman's electoral lobby. and, mr ombudsman, whether you or someone else is continuing this work, i hope, we hope, that the ombudsman will make information visits to not just two but other regions of europe, and then perhaps those percentages will go down. we all make our work transparent, including the work of parliament.
in writing. the report presented by the european ombudsman for 2008 is a very balanced and comprehensive one and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr nikiforos diamandouros and his team on their work. firstly, we note an increase in the number of complaints registered by the ombudsman during 2008 3 406 complaints, compared with 3 211 in 2007. this can be interpreted in a positive way if we think that european citizens are exercising their democratic right to information, but also in a negative way if we look at the content of these complaints. the main types of alleged maladministration in the investigations opened in 2008 were lack of transparency, including refusal to provide information and abuse of power. i find it worrying that 36% of the inquiries are based on a complaint about a lack of transparency in the european institutions, because european administration is a key element in building citizens' trust in the european project and i believe we must do everything possible to increase the transparency of decision-making and administration in our institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2010 progress work plan and the list of activities in the fields. i think it is important that parliament, the council and the commission first agree on the proposal to establish a european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion - progress, and on the proposal to amend the community progress programme. according to them, €100 million should be reallocated to finance the new european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion - progress, to implement the 'joint commitment to employment' of the commission communication com (2009) 257. i consider that the amount of eur 100 million is insufficient to achieve the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the commission withdrawing the draft decision on the 2010 work plan from the progress programme and the list of activities by area and for the future commission to re-submit a new proposal after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and after the european parliament, the council and the commission have reached agreement on the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com ((2009) 0333) and the amended proposal (com ((2009) 0340).
in writing. i supported the resolution on the joint programming of research activities to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease, as i believe it is important to accelerate synergy between member states in research on neurodegenerative diseases. it should be borne in mind that approximately 7.3 million people in europe suffer from alzheimer's disease or a similar disease; this figure is expected to double by 2020. unfortunately, there is currently no cure and limited knowledge of treatment and prevention. that is why i recommend that the member states pool their resources and efforts to advance research together, because together as europeans we will be stronger in the fight against these diseases. i would also call on the european research ministers to adopt a similar position on 3 december. and i would like to remind you that the european parliamentarians want more than ever to be involved in future initiatives for joint programming of research activities, through the legislative procedure provided for in the lisbon treaty for research, which is codecision.
in writing. − i believe that citizens, companies, non-governmental organisations and all other entities should be as well informed as possible about the role and tasks of the european ombudsman, which can also help to reduce the number of complaints that are not within the remit of the institution. citizens' knowledge of the ombudsman's work is generally limited. the launch of the new website in early 2009 is welcome. however, i believe that efforts to ensure that citizens are as well informed as possible must be stepped up. the rapporteur therefore welcomes the proposal to draw up an interactive handbook to enable citizens to be better informed about how to address a complaint and to easily identify the right way to solve the problems they are facing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ms paliadeli's report as i consider it to be a detailed and comprehensive presentation of the european ombudsman's work on citizens' complaints and their resolution. i would also like to congratulate mr diamandouros on his work in 2008 and on the record number of investigations and cases solved. the institution of the european ombudsman is extremely important because it brings the european union closer to its citizens! the ombudsman ensures that the institutions and bodies of the european union act in the interests of citizens in a transparent, fair, just, non-discriminatory and procedural manner. the rate of inadmissible complaints in 2008 is very high and increasing compared to previous years. i therefore believe that fair, continuous and dynamic information campaigns should be promoted in all member states. because european citizens do not know where to turn when their rights are violated, they often turn to the european ombudsman in an unfounded manner. but it can only solve them in cases of maladministration in the work of the eu institutions. cooperation between the european ombudsman and the eu institutions needs to be improved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs paliadeli's report on the activities of the european ombudsman, as i consider mr diamandouros' contribution to solving citizens' problems and bringing the eu institutions closer to the citizens to be substantial. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts in completing the report. the european ombudsman has played a key role in enhancing transparency and accountability in the decision-making process and in the administrative system of the european union. i hope that the 44 investigations that were closed with critical comments in 2008 will lead to a reduction in future maladministration. i am a supporter of a comprehensive interpretation of the phrase 'mismanagement', which must include both unlawful administrative acts or cases of breach of legal rules or binding principles, and cases where administrative authorities have behaved indolently, negligently or with a lack of transparency in the performance of their duties towards citizens or have violated other principles of good administration.
in writing. − we need to have clear rules on the union budget for the transition period between the treaty of nice and the treaty of lisbon. given that the coming months are crucial for the budgetary policy of the european union and that, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, budgetary transfers or revisions will follow until the beginning of 2010, it is necessary to establish a clear procedure for this transitional period, which will allow the execution of the budget and the adoption of amending budgets. the budgetary conciliation procedure scheduled for 19 november will see the european commission, the council of the european union and the european parliament reach agreement on the adoption of the transitional guidelines. the european parliament's delegation must have a firm and solid position in the negotiations, which is why i voted in favour of mr lamassoure's report.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will bring substantial changes in many areas, starting with the budgetary procedure. the usefulness of a relationship to ensure the transition between the two procedures, the one currently in force and the one provided for in the new treaty, is significant. that's why i thought it appropriate to support it in its entirety. the procedural guidelines set out in the report facilitate the budgetary work of the three institutions involved so that the budget can be implemented efficiently, in particular as regards budgetary transfers. the rapporteur's initiative to request that the financial regulation be adapted to the new rules of the lisbon treaty as soon as possible is another measure of immediate necessity. we will then await the adoption of the transitional guidelines envisaged at the budgetary conciliation meeting before the council's second reading, scheduled for 19 november, with the confidence that they will be given due weight.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty brings a lot of changes, including budgetary changes which are very important, especially the elimination of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. the 2010 budget was adopted under the old treaty, but until the 2011 budgetary procedure is conducted, the institutions may have to deal with budget implementation, adopt amending budgets and start the 2011 budgetary procedure before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. i appreciate the initiative of this report, which was produced in record time. i also congratulate the commission on the efficiency with which it has made the current transitional rules available to us.
it is sad that the politics of justifying the collective disenfranchisement of minorities can still be a hindrance to the further integration process. i would like to thank the president for what he has done to restore normalcy in slovakia. the grammar code is just such a sad little chapter. the other was the czech case. the czech head of state should know that even without the lisbon treaty, the venice decrees were born with the enforcement of the principle of collective culpability and will not become illegal with the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights, but are currently in contradiction with more than six european documents. we hope that the future of the lisbon treaty and the eu will be determined not by a renewal of the collective deprivation of rights of the second world war, but by the guarantee of the rights of minorities, in accordance with established european practice, by ensuring cultural territorial autonomy.
the situation of the romanian community in italy is becoming increasingly worrying. all of europe already knows how an entire community has been tried to blame for the crimes of a few. every day, romanians face more and more problems, they are more and more intimidated and scared. here are just a few examples. the press recently reported on a flagrant case of discrimination: the director of an italian telephone, cable, and internet company advised his employees to avoid contracting with romanian citizens. also, a romanian citizen child of roma ethnicity was injured, but no hospital in the city of messina would take him in. he died on the way to catania. these are just a few of the many situations, but romanians in italy face such a blow almost daily. i think it is necessary that the european union sends a clear message to the italian government to stop discriminating against romanian immigrants.
the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the adoption of the stockholm programme will certainly have a positive impact on the european citizen in the new area of freedom, security and justice. as regards illegal migration and crossborder crime, the forecasts for the coming years indicate an increase in migratory flows also at the eastern border of the european union; i am referring in particular to the republic of moldova, a country which, following political changes, has clearly expressed its desire to integrate into the european union, but which is currently economically vulnerable and has a low capacity to manage migration and crime at its borders. the european union, in order to strengthen its external borders and create an area of security, must provide substantial economic assistance to strengthen the republic of moldova's capacity to act. the european union must urgently propose an association agreement setting out clear deadlines for the country's future accession. integration will be much easier and the success of this cooperation will serve as a model for other countries in the union's neighbourhood.
mr president, let me change tack and bring to your attention some real-life facts. if you have to report major incidents, such as the breaking of your mail account, you can do it only electronically. there is no way to speak to a real person and establish a normal dialogue. if you have a problem you want to report to a telephone and internet provider, you get stuck in a labyrinth of recorded voices transferring you from one to another until the company is satisfied with the money they have got out of you, even if the problem you want to report has been caused by their faulty service. therefore i would suggest that the new commission look into the matter and come up with a regulation to force the providers to have a real person answering your first transfer. it will save consumer time, health and money and still give a profit, albeit smaller, to the service provider, plus some jobs to the unemployed. in concluding, madam commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to another fact of life, namely the amount of personal data the consumer is asked to provide for a free download of software for products bought directly off the shelf. where does that information end up, and for what purpose?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission supports in principle the text of the draft council decision, because it is necessary to ensure that the provisions of mutual assistance and administrative cooperation evolve as far as possible in parallel, and it is necessary to fix the provisions establishing that the general budget of the european communities will bear the costs relating to the use of the customs information system by the member states. this legal correction should not imply any increase in the budget, and it is necessary to ensure greater complementarity with action in the context of cooperation with europol and eurojust by granting the same level of access for these agencies to the customs information system (cis), including its customs files identification database (fide). that being so, the commission cannot support parliament’s amendment aiming to grant a different level of access to cis/fide for europol and eurojust. in general terms, the commission welcomes most of the amendments tabled by parliament. in this context i would like to make the following comments. the commission shares the opinion of the rapporteur, mr alvaro, that it is regrettable that this proposal should be decided in such a hurried manner by the member states prior to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. in fact the lisbon treaty provides a new legal basis whereby a new regulation could replace the present cis convention, a regulation which would have direct effect in member states and not require transposition into national law before becoming operational, as is currently the case for regulation (ec) no 766/2008 on the administrative part of the cis. the commission also shares the opinion of the european parliament that, for the data protection supervision of the it application, the solution aiming to replace the joint supervisory authority (jsa) with the european data protection supervisor (edps) is the most appropriate. combined supervision by jsa and edps would present some risks of possible duplication and overlapping of work. in any case, a coordination mechanism, including for issuing relevant recommendations, should be put in place.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i congratulate and thank my colleague alexander alvaro for his work and for the good cooperation we had during the drafting of this report. it was a report where i agreed with the rapporteur on the main points, namely that access to the data entered into the customs information system is to be ensured only to specifically designated bodies and staff like the member states, europol and eurojust. another point which was raised in one of my amendments and supported by the rapporteur refers to the fact that member states, europol and eurojust are not granted the possibility to communicate data to non-member states and third countries because of the absence of sufficient data protection in those countries. in my opinion, the review of the customs information system as reflected by the report is necessary in order to adapt it better to the control services’ requirements and to allow a limited number of users to carry out analyses of the information contained in the system. the review will also increase the effectiveness of the cooperation and control procedures of the customs administrations due to the joint, automated information system which will assist in preventing, investigating and prosecuting serious contraventions of national laws.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, i have the honour to present to parliament the report of the committee on international trade on macro-financial assistance (mfa) to bosnia and herzegovina. as with other countries to which the commission has proposed to give mfa, the economy of bosnia and herzegovina has been seriously affected by the current economic and financial crisis. its economy is in a serious situation and it is clear that a way out of this crisis must be found. therefore bosnia and herzegovina has applied for eu assistance and the commission has proposed to provide it in the form of a loan amounting to up to eur 100 million, which is to be made available in two instalments during 2010. now we have to decide whether we support this request or not. under the current treaty rules, we are merely consulted. therefore, on the one hand, one could argue: why not wait for the treaty of lisbon to enter into force and handle a modified proposal already under the ordinary legislative procedure? on the other hand, despite the increasing importance of our work after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, i believe that we, as a parliament, must show responsibility and political commitment and do our part in giving this balkan country, early next year already, the assistance it needs now, rather than discussing it at length and being able to give the assistance only at some unknown point of time in the future. for the above reasons, the suggestion of the committee on international trade is to have the proposal of mfa to bosnia and herzegovina adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon without amendments under the simplified procedure. my colleagues on our committee supported this proposal unanimously and now i ask for the support of the whole house as well.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first and foremost, i would like to note that the commission greatly welcomes the positive and constructive attitude of parliament on the process of adoption of the commission proposals for macro-financial assistance for four partner countries: armenia, georgia, serbia, and bosnia and herzegovina. the commission appreciates that the european parliament has opted for a procedure which allows for a vote – to take place tomorrow, already – on the reports for these four countries, without amendments to the commission’s proposals. parliament’s swift and decisive action will allow the council to adopt decisions on the four operations in the next few days, and the commission will then be in a position to start implementing the programmes. macro-financial assistance is by its very nature a short-term, crisis-response instrument and proposals for macro-financial assistance normally require rapid action. this is clearly the case for the countries we are examining today. armenia, georgia, serbia and bosnia are among those having suffered the most from the effects of the crisis, irrespective of the difference in their economic structures and level of development. they are also among those that have been implementing strong adjustment programmes with the support of the international monetary fund and those that have requested financial support from the eu. and the commission is indeed of the opinion that the conditions for extending macro-financial assistance to these countries are fully met. let me now turn to the instrument of macro-financial assistance and to its future under the lisbon treaty. the change brought by the lisbon treaty provides the ordinary legislative procedure for macro-financial assistance, with equal involvement of the european parliament and the council. at the same time, i think we all accept that a lengthy legislative procedure involving a long iterative process between the various institutions is not adapted to the macro-financial assistance instrument, or indeed to situations of crisis. therefore, the commission considers it crucial to examine how to deal with macro-financial assistance in the future, notably within the framework of the lisbon treaty. we would like to do this in close cooperation with the european parliament in order to ensure that in the future macro-financial assistance proposals are dealt with in a manner which on the one hand is rapid and allows for an effective crisis response, but on the other meets the requirements of the lisbon treaty for detailed scrutiny by legislators within the joint decision-making process. the commission has historically been in favour of a framework regulation governing the macro-financial assistance instrument. the commission services have started reflections at a technical level on the shape of such a framework regulation under the lisbon treaty. such a framework regulation could potentially have significant advantages. until such a framework regulation is adopted, individual commission proposals for macro-financial assistance programmes will be codecided on a case-by-case basis by the european parliament and the council. the proposals – starting with the recently adopted commission proposal for ukraine – will be a good test of interinstitutional cooperation. i hope that parliament and the council will be able to come to an agreement rapidly. finally, i would like to note that the commission is happy to agree to parliament’s suggestions on an improvement of the flow of information on macro-financial assistance programmes. the commission is ready to make its best efforts to provide more upstream information to parliament for macro-financial assistance programmes.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and express my appreciation for these initiatives of the european commission and the council to provide macro-financial assistance to bosnia-herzegovina and serbia. this financial support from the european union is proposed at a very difficult time for both countries. after the hardships of the 1990s, which bled that part of the balkans, the region has embarked on a process of reconstruction that has been stalled, however, by the current economic crisis. both countries have been hit hard by the recession, which has come against a backdrop of an already high budget deficit and unemployment. the crisis has forced foreign investors to curb their investments in many eastern european countries, with serbia being one of the countries most severely affected by the deficit caused by the massive exodus of foreign capital. the collapse of economic growth and the increase in short-term debt obligations have increased the need for external financing. this support from the european union therefore comes at a time when the external financing gap is being felt to the full and the economic and social outlook is bleak. it is estimated that the peak in unemployment will not be reached until the next two or three quarters. we know that social discontent can have a detrimental effect on the stability of a country, especially when it is superimposed on already existing tensions with such sensitive roots as ethnic tensions. i therefore welcome these proposals for macrofinancial assistance and would like to stress their necessity, first and foremost as a factor in maintaining and strengthening the stability of a hard-pressed area in a fragile equilibrium. we cannot ignore the prospect of the european union's enlargement to the balkans, which is another reason why we have a duty to support these countries aspiring to european integration. i would not like to conclude without stressing the urgency of this financial support, given the rapidly worsening economic situation in serbia and bosnia-herzegovina. this urgency should, in my view, prevail over the procedural considerations arising from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and i support the proposal of the two rapporteurs on the timely transfer of community funds without any distortions arising from the need to change the legal basis of the provisions adopted by the european commission.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, our neighbourhood policy is able, to a large extent, to provide financial assistance to countries in our neighbourhood which are in trouble, so i am very happy that members of parliament so unanimously supported this commission proposal. we are doing our utmost to support our neighbourhood countries. one member mentioned that procedural details should not hinder us, but in fact procedures must ensure that money is used properly. you always have to strike a balance between achieving objectives and following procedures. it is important to follow clear rules in providing this assistance. as i said, we will see in the very near future the possibility of developing the framework agreement which establishes a certain frame for this kind of assistance, and within this assistance framework we can then provide rapid assistance. this is a major problem today: we are currently deciding on a case-by-case basis and this takes an enormous amount of time, like so many other procedures in our large european union. this will be the key issue. there will be a framework agreement and then there will be a rapid decision-making mechanism about the size of the assistance. there are always limits imposed by member states, and this will always be so. there is never unlimited scope to help countries while at the same time providing money for our own projects.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, all four countries to which the commission has today proposed to give macro-financial assistance have been seriously affected by the current economic and financial crisis. their economies are in a serious situation, and it is clear that a way out from this crisis must be found. in the case of georgia, the proposed macro-financial assistance of eur 46 million in the form of grant instalments is aimed at supporting georgia’s recovery after that country experienced a severe economic downturn following the eruption of the military conflict with russia and the global financial crisis. the eur 100 million for armenia is forecast to have an immediate impact on armenia’s balance of payments, and would in this way contribute to the alleviation of financial constraints on the implementation of the authorities’ economic programme and to financing the budget deficit. serbia, however badly affected by the financial and economic crisis, is rapidly returning to political stability. as a balkan country it is a potential candidate country for eu membership and has signed a stabilisation and association agreement. for this reason it should also be helped. politically speaking, bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate country which has also signed a stabilisation and association agreement, and it is in the interests of the european union to assist it. to conclude, i restate my belief that we as the european parliament must show responsibility and political commitment in giving these countries the macro-financial assistance they need now, rather than discussing this at length under the ordinary legislative procedure. for the above reasons, on behalf of the epp group, i suggest we have the proposal for macro-financial assistance to these countries adopted now. i ask my colleagues to support it unanimously.
in writing. i would first like to express my agreement with the principle of granting macro-financial assistance to armenia. i believe that this initiative is in line with the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy. armenia, which is in a particularly dire economic situation due to the financial crisis, urgently needs these funds which could enable it to meet the commitments it has made in the stand-by agreement with the imf. i appreciate that the rapporteur has understood the urgency of this need, opting for an opinion without amendments. however, i also agree with the objections that can be raised at the procedural level. article 308 tec concerns measures taken within the internal market which are not directly provided for in the treaty and not necessarily measures similar to those to be taken for the granting of mfis to third countries. i believe that there is a need to clarify the interinstitutional procedures for adopting measures on amf adapted to possible time constraints so that in future we will no longer be in a situation where parliament has to make exceptions to the normal procedure. it would also seem natural for the eu council to act more promptly without neglecting the role of parliament in such procedures.
the european commission and the member states have funded a recently published study that criticises the eu's climate policies for limiting themselves to reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions without attaching importance to the natural capacity to capture carbon dioxide. but the study shows that intensive agriculture developed by the european union bears a heavy responsibility for climate change. in effect, this study is an indictment of european agriculture. i think that if we want to address agriculture in this context, we should say something else, for example, in terms of the contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the record of european agriculture is remarkable, with a 20% reduction between 1990 and 2006. given that the overall average for this period was only 6%, i think it's not fair to put agriculture in the dock two weeks before the copenhagen summit.
in writing. global warming currently poses two major challenges to humanity: the need to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the need to adapt to the effects of climate change. given that we are dealing with a global phenomenon and given that the eu is responsible for only 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions generated globally, it is important that in copenhagen, in two weeks' time, we get a global legally binding agreement. welcome to copenhagen, president obama, with a mandate containing clear targets for reducing emissions that the united states will take on. adapting to the effects of climate change requires a funding mechanism with precise figures on the amounts to be invested in green technologies that generate new jobs, so necessary in this time of crisis.
in writing. the international climate change conference that starts in copenhagen on 7 december aims to establish a post-kyoto agreement that will oblige the world's states to reduce polluting emissions. the eu has unilaterally committed to reducing its emissions by 20% compared with 2005 and to using 20% of its energy from renewable sources. however, these efforts need to be linked to the efforts of all developed and developing countries. reducing energy consumption and emissions can be achieved quickly and cheaply by increasing energy efficiency on a global scale. the eu and its member states therefore need to increase energy efficiency, particularly in the field of buildings and transport. in order for the eu to reduce its emissions from energy-intensive industries in line with its commitments, it needs to secure the financial resources for modernising european businesses. only then will we preserve production and, by implication, the leading positions in the european union. when reviewing the eu budget, we need to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available for climate protection and adaptation measures. developing an eco-efficient global economy will generate new investment, create jobs and improve your living standards.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that we shall not withdraw the proposal.
mr president, i would like to ask you, from the side of the ppe group, to vote separately on amendment 27. it is about granting eurojust and europol full access to the database. i would like to ask all colleagues not to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this package because of its unquestionable usefulness. however, i appreciate that it is unclear what a fair and impartial procedure will mean in practice in relation to possible situations of restricting internet access. i think it would have been preferable to have had a binding prior judicial decision.
in writing. − i would stress the need for pesticides to be used in a more sustainable way and with a significant overall reduction in risks and a use of pesticides that is compatible with the need to protect crops. but the use of pesticides without careful monitoring of both quantity and quality cannot be achieved unless there is a solid database. the existence of harmonised and comparable community statistics on sales and use of pesticides is important in the development and monitoring of community legislation and policies in the context of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides. such statistics are necessary for the evaluation of the european union's sustainable development policies and for the calculation of meaningful indicators on the health and environmental risks related to the use of pesticides. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − the albrecht report brings to the table the list of third states and organisations with which europol has agreements. the list of third states includes, for example, the republic of moldova and the list of organisations with which europol has agreements should include the regional centre for combating cross-border crime, based in bucharest, which is in negotiations with europol with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement. the epp group voted against this report in this plenary session so that it could be taken up again after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is precisely because this is such an important subject that we have decided to treat it with the utmost care and will be discussing it in co-decision with the council from next year.
in writing. − crime in the european union is continuously increasing. we are facing the proliferation of organized crime networks and a cybercrime that is becoming more and more widespread. the european policy on crime prevention therefore needs to be consolidated and strengthened, and member states need to cooperate much better and more closely and have a strong and common strategy in this area. the progress of the crime prevention network over the past years is limited and its potential is also far from being reached at this point. the expansion of the network's area of competence, the establishment of a clear, simple and efficient administrative structure and the involvement of civil society, academia and ngos are prerequisites for the successful functioning of such a network. parliament will acquire a real legislative status and will be able, together with the council, to adopt measures to encourage and support member states' action in the field of crime prevention. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to reject the initiative and to debate this important dossier after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, i wish to refer briefly to the section on economic crime and corruption in the stockholm programme. the text has lost some of its teeth during the negotiations in coreper. for instance, today’s text refers to greco standards on anti-corruption, with greco being a council of europe body. while cooperation with greco and the council of europe is essential, the european union’s standards on anti-corruption are higher than those of the council of europe which, as we all know, has 47 member states. consequently, i kindly ask, and at the same time urge, the council to maintain a text with a strong commitment to anti-corruption. we need an eu policy and an eu mechanism to combat corruption and fraud in a robust way within the eu, and the stockholm programme must reflect that need and commitment.
in writing. the defence and promotion of human rights have lost prominence on the eu agenda in recent years, with national security becoming a political priority. the eu's area of freedom, security and justice is entering a decisive phase. the maastricht treaty introduced at community level matters of justice and home affairs which had hitherto been dealt with at a strictly intergovernmental level. the tampere and hague programmes provided an important political impetus for the strengthening of these policies. the stockholm multiannual programme sets priorities for the next five years so that the benefits of the area of freedom, security and justice become a reality for citizens. the programme will be implemented after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and, by introducing the codecision procedure as the ordinary legislative procedure, the european justice and home affairs policy areas and the measures taken to comply with them will be subject to parliamentary control.
in writing. an important part of the stockholm programme is the enhanced protection of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is unthinkable without the prohibition of all forms of discrimination. but the ban is not enough, the european union (eu) must take concrete measures against the discriminatory measures that occur, because only then is it possible for this area to really serve all european citizens. of the discriminatory measures that can be found, i would mention only one, that of traditional national minorities. at this moment, linguistic genocide is taking place in two eu countries. i therefore ask the european commission (ec) and the future spanish presidency to pay greater attention to preventing discriminatory measures in the implementation of the stockholm programme. otherwise, this programme will not serve all eu citizens, but only members of the majority nations.
vice-president of the commission. − european research and innovation policy is mainly framed by the seventh research framework programme, covering the period 2007 to 2013, the competitiveness and innovation programme, covering the same period, and the cohesion funds, also covering the same period. in preparation for these three major programmes, the commission presented a long-term strategy and an action plan in 2005 and 2006. the action plan dates from 2005 and the broad innovation strategy from 2006. the results of these various programmes have been presented in extensive commission documents and have also been the subject of frequent debate in parliament. i am happy to make all these documents available to you again, madam president. it is not possible to present the content of the debate in a question and answer session, but i shall try to work out the main points. in the seventh framework programme for research we have seen a really remarkable increase in european r & d expenditure and a number of new instruments have been created, in particular the joint technology initiatives, which have proved to be extremely successful. the cohesion funds have been refocused and better targeted on the objective of promoting research and innovation, and it is really remarkable when you look at the numbers: the cohesion and structural funds have allocated eur 86 billion over the period in question to these tasks, which is at least 25% of the total structural and cohesion funds. a new instrument has been created within the framework of european structural policy, the jeremie initiative, which is primarily aimed at facilitating access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. this is being done in cooperation with the european investment fund. the programme for the promotion of innovation and competitiveness, for which i am responsible, is also essentially a programme for the creation of financial instruments. the majority of the funds are in fact used to facilitate access by smes to financial instruments designed to improve their capacity to innovate. as you know, our european policy for growth and employment does not have many quantitative objectives. but we have a quantitative target which has remained unchanged since 2000. that is the objective of spending 3% of gdp on research and development. we can already say today that this objective will not be achieved. however, looking at the percentages alone is a bit misleading, because in the european union, research and development expenditure increased by 14.8% in absolute terms between 2000 and 2006. this is a higher rate of increase than, for example, in the united states. however, we must say that the results are not satisfactory, which is why the council adopted a document entitled 'vision 2020' for the european research area in december last year, which deals with the question of how we can mobilise more funds for european research and development policy. i do not want to hide my concern that the current economic recession is putting the long-term strategy of promoting research and innovation at risk. the commission reacted very quickly to this threat in november 2008. the european economic recovery programme, which complements the member states' crisis-management measures and aims to provide impetus and to combat financial sector failures, focuses heavily on investment in research and development and investment promotion. i will give you three examples: the 'factory of the future' initiative, which is about modernising europe's industrial base with a budget of eur 1.2 billion, the 'energy efficient buildings' initiative, which has eur 1 billion, and the 'partnership for the development of green vehicles', which also has eur 1 billion for research and is supplemented by additional economic measures with expenditure of eur 4 billion. the commission has already started preparations for the next strategy for growth and employment. without giving away any secrets - because president barroso has already spoken about this in his guidelines - i can also say that research, development and innovation will play a very central role in this next strategy for growth and jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have very good, sometimes excellent research capacities. we also have very good results in technological development. but we could certainly be better when it comes to innovation. if we understand innovation as the practical application of research and development work to products, services, design, methods, in other words to anything where practical application is possible, then we see here a great potential to generate additional growth and additional employment in europe. the commission has therefore announced this year that it will present a so-called innovation act. an act is a new policy instrument that we have developed for the first time in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises - you remember the small business act - and we will be introducing an innovation act which brings together legislative measures, policy initiatives and politically binding guidelines in one big package. i have tried to steer the work in such a way that the next commission is free to decide when to present this innovation act. you'll understand that i can't anticipate this. that is a matter for the next commission to decide. but the preparatory work is already well advanced and i think it is safe to say that parliament will be able to deal with this innovation act next year. let me conclude by saying that in the last few years, we have seen progress on a broad front, everywhere, but it is very uneven. but here it is necessary to apply a fair approach. we cannot, for example, expect our new member states to spend the same amount of their gross national product on research, development and innovation. but i am very pleased to see that the new member states - especially those with the greatest economic need to catch up - are also catching up the fastest in this area, so i am looking at the overall trend in a positive way.
thank you for your information and your response. i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering discussions with european banking institutions on the possibility of granting guarantees and loans at preferential rates to companies and research and innovation projects which are today considered to be high risk. also, european research programmes such as framework programme 7, which require co-financing of up to 50%, are not very suitable for smes. i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering amending these programmes to increase the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, commissioner, the economic and financial crisis has seriously affected and will continue to affect the steel industry and the shipbuilding industry. my home city of galatia is suffering the loss of thousands of jobs in the metalworking and shipbuilding industries. the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a short- and medium-term solution to support workers in difficulty following job losses. i would like to draw attention to the need to invest in modernising heavy industry in order to pollute less in the future. in this way, we will be able to preserve jobs and thus protect workers in the long term.
in writing. mr president, i support the report presented by our colleague mr böge because i believe that the many european workers who have lost their jobs must be helped, including from eu funds. the more than €37 million granted in 2009 to 10 275 workers is far from the €500 million ceiling foreseen annually for this european fund. i stress that the funding is for the workers who are laid off, not the companies. the eu should not financially support the strategy of companies that relocate and lay off workers, especially if the company goes outside the eu or receives parallel aid from a member state. it is essential to keep a close eye on how business relocations take place. the social costs of closing or relocating factories should not be passed on to european taxpayers. the fund was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade and, after 1 may 2009, to those made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i believe that access to european funds can also significantly help the new member states to overcome the difficulties caused by the economic crisis and to adapt to the competitive system in the european single market.
mr president, commissioner, the safety of rail transport depends on investment in the maintenance and modernisation of railway infrastructure and rolling stock. lack of investment will increase the number of rail accidents. at both community level, through the ten-t budget and the structural funds, and at member state level through national allocations and co-financing of priority projects for trans-european transport, railway investment must become a priority. the interoperability of rail systems is essential. the appropriate pay of staff and the training and testing of railway workers are also essential. romania has also had rail accidents in the last year. the eastern part of the european union requires significant investment in rail transport to maintain and upgrade existing infrastructure and to develop it. the extension of priority projects 6 and 17 to bucharest and constanta, the construction of a railway corridor for freight transport on this route, and the implementation of the rtms system should become priority ten-t projects.
francesco capotorti. he was a good man. when the united nations worked to draft what became known as the international convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide, they discussed linguistic and cultural genocide as a serious crime against humanity alongside physical genocide. linguistic genocide is defined in article 3 (1) of the 1948 geneva convention as the prohibition of the use of the language of a group in everyday communication or in schools, or the printing or distribution of books in the language of the group. today, unfortunately, slovakia is not the only country in the european union, but it is the most typical example of linguistic genocide, that is, linguistic genocide, language destruction, taking place in the territory of an eu country. but don't let anyone else rejoice, because romania, greece, france may also join forces with slovakia. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − i would like to begin by highlighting the essence of the policy of multilingualism that we have been promoting during this period. we wanted to be able to ensure that, on the one hand, every language spoken in the european union is respected and celebrated, whether it is a national language, a regional language, a minority language or a language spoken by citizens from other continents, but on the other hand, that this celebration of diversity achieves the common goal we all want: to preserve and strengthen the unity of the european union, our unity. it is, if you will, the most direct application of the principle of "unity in diversity". and in my comment i cannot ignore mr svoboda's remarks that in what we are doing we must look for those elements which unite us and not divide us. we must respect each other, but we must have the wisdom to find ways to understand each other, to dialogue, to be able to interact with each other. this is precisely why multilingualism has played and continues to play an extremely important role in strengthening intercultural dialogue. we need dialogue, and without languages, that dialogue cannot take place. i have had the opportunity to visit all the member states. i have had the opportunity to travel to areas and regions where, unfortunately, there are still discussions, there are still disputes and, unfortunately, languages are sometimes held captive by political interests which are not of the union's unity. and i've made it very clear: we need to find the ways that we can talk, that we can interact. that's why, i said, even in situations where things seem to be more difficult to accept, that learning and speaking the language of the communities with which we live, with which we live next to, offers us important solutions for understanding. so in situations like this, and there have been countless cases, i think we can take a step forward in terms of mutual understanding. the ability to speak, for example, the language in areas where representatives of national minorities are in the majority - the ability to speak the language of these minorities - as well as the ability of national minorities to speak the language of the national country, are bridges of connection and bridges of understanding that can help us. i want to make a few comments about the efforts we are making to provide support for all the languages spoken in the european union. we fund a significant number of projects related not only to official languages but also to countless regional and minority languages. there are countless concrete examples of how the european commission has supported networks of organisations promoting regional and minority languages and, more generally, the less widely spoken languages in the union, but we also finance projects relating to specific minority and regional languages. there are concrete examples of how we support these languages, and as i said and i want to repeat, the multilingualism strategy adopted in 2008 covers all the languages spoken in the european union, there are no barriers. we consider each of these as a wealth of the european union, as part of, if you will, the cultural heritage that we have, existing in the european union. i would like to say a few words about the changes to the legislation on the use of the slovak language, of course, in slovakia. we are glad that there is now a dialogue between the hungarian and slovak prime ministers on the possibilities of finding common solutions of common understanding. from the community point of view, i would like to emphasize that, given the extremely wide scope of this law, it is at present impossible to assess all the possible implications of the application of this law. that is why the implementation of this legislation is essential, how this legislation is implemented is essential and in this context i would like to stress that the european commission will be very closely monitoring and will be looking in detail at how this legislation is implemented. i would like to end by stressing once again that, within the limits of the relatively limited powers we have, we try to support all the languages used in the european union, whether we are talking about official, regional or minority languages, whether we are talking, for example, about the welsh language, where we have concrete examples of how we support this language, or whether we are talking about the catalan language, where, for example, the european commission has tried to bring it to the attention of people who use this language and, for example, we have websites and highly detailed information in catalan about community policies, as well as about basque and countless other languages. i want to show that through these efforts we are demonstrating in concrete terms how we want to support this policy which i consider to be an important policy of the european union, a policy which is in fact at the foundation of the creation of the european union.
in writing. minorities add value to a nation as long as they can preserve their cultural values. therefore, it is particularly important to preserve the cultural specificity of minorities. from this point of view, i believe that romania - the member state i represent - has one of the most modern legal systems protecting minorities. in romania, minorities can address their native language in the judiciary, they have schools in their native languages. all 19 minorities in romania are represented in the parliament. in areas where minorities represent 20% of the population, the local administration is obliged to issue documents in the minority language. all decisions are presented both in romanian and in the language of the minority in the area. i believe that the romanian legislation on this matter can be presented as an example of good practice and as a benchmark whenever it comes to the rights of minorities and the use of their languages.
first of all, i congratulate the swedish presidency on the way it has led the preparations for the transition to the treaty of lisbon. this priority on the swedish presidency's agenda has been successfully fulfilled. i believe that the december council's work must find solutions to the dual challenges facing europe today, namely the economic crisis and climate change. the current need is to restore confidence in financial markets by creating a system of supervision to prevent and prevent a similar crisis in the future. as regards climate change, i believe that the development of environmental protection policy must not affect other policies, namely the allocation of european funds for policies such as regional development.
in writing. the central theme of the stockholm programme is 'building a europe of the citizens'. for me, this means that from now on the european institutions, together with the member states, must take a step forward towards the abolition of internal eu borders, as citizens continue to face numerous administrative and legal obstacles to the exercise of their right to live and work in the member state of their choice. the stockholm programme must therefore give substance to this central theme and provide clear tools to facilitate full access for all eu workers to the community labour market, which is the major expression of european citizenship. in addition, the current economic crisis further highlights the need to promote the full exercise of the right of free movement. improving mobility within the union, in a common area of freedoms, rights and obligations, implies a strengthening of the schengen area and therefore a need to integrate the remaining member states as soon as possible. it also implies the good management of the union's external borders, which must be done in the most coherent manner possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the labelling of tyres with regard to fuel efficiency. this directive is part of the energy efficiency legislative package and will reduce the pollutant emissions generated by the transport sector. according to this directive, tyre suppliers must provide information to users through labelling and stickers on: fuel consumption and rolling resistance, wet grip and external rolling noise. basically, for these parameters, the label will contain an indication of the level, from a to g, to which the tyre falls. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. these include the need to drive environmentally friendly, regularly check tire pressure, and maintain a proper braking distance. member states shall publish by 1 november 2011 all the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to transpose this directive into their national law. the provisions of this directive shall apply from 1 november 2012. the transport sector is responsible for around 25% of polluting emissions and this directive will therefore help to reduce these emissions.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because it is necessary to reach a legally binding global agreement in copenhagen, under which developed and developing countries will also commit themselves to emission reduction targets comparable to those of the eu. achieving the goal of keeping global warming to a 2°c gradient and reducing greenhouse gas emissions can only be achieved if we invest in clean technologies, research and innovation. additional funds should also be allocated from contributions from the states signatories to the global agreement, reflecting their economic development and solvency.
in writing. − this resolution represents a clear and realistic strategy for dealing with the key areas which must be addressed in order to achieve an effective agreement in copenhagen next month. we have a text which balances ambition with realistic targets, and which deals with the difficult issues that the negotiators must resolve. the european parliament has now called on the eu negotiating team and the member states to press for action on: emissions trading; a global carbon market; a fair system of financing for adaptation and mitigation; forests; and aviation and maritime transport. the parliament has kept to its earlier commitments regarding emission reductions by 2020, and has now set out even more ambitious targets for 2050 in the light of new recommendations from the scientific community. the willingness of the eu to lead on this issue may well prove to be a key factor in establishing an internationally binding agreement to deal with climate change.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. there are now several european laws governing: compensation and repatriation of consumers in the event of the bankruptcy of the tourist companies that provided the packages, air carrier liability for accidents and arrangements for compensation for passengers, compensation and assistance to passengers who are denied boarding or whose flights are cancelled or have long delays. however, there are no legal provisions to protect consumers in the event of the air carrier's bankruptcy. in the last nine years 77 european airlines have gone bankrupt and that is why i believe that the directive is very necessary. the ep therefore called on the commission to strengthen the position of passengers in the event of an airline's bankruptcy. the ep has therefore asked the commission to come forward by july 2010 with a legislative proposal which should provide for compensation to be granted to passengers of those airlines which go bankrupt, the introduction of the principle of mutual liability for passengers for all companies flying to the same destination and having available seats, compulsory insurance for airlines, the establishment of a guarantee fund and the provision of voluntary insurance services for passengers.
mr president, perhaps the most important lesson of the past enlargement is that we have brought into the union countries, markets, institutions and industrial assets, but we have left behind the hearts and minds of the people. i think that we have to avoid repeating this same experience in the future. we have also to prepare not only the acceding countries but also the existing member states. the famous enlargement fatigue says more about the lack of preparation of the present states – of the old member states, unprepared to live together with the new member states – rather than the indigestible character of the new member states. next, i think that we should, when speaking about the candidate countries, avoid any conditionality which is not linked directly to their capacity to be interoperable with us from the legal, institutional, political and cultural point of view and to compete with us within the internal market in the broader sense of this concept. we should not impose conditionalities which are not linked with these criteria. we should remember that enlargement is about a better future, not about a better past. we think too much about this past. thirdly, each country should indeed come in based on its merits. but we should also assess their capacity with their accession to contribute to a better situation in the region, more stability and more integration on a regional basis. management of expectations is also extremely important and i believe that perhaps in the future we should be a little bit more imaginative in trying to allow for some kind of gradual integration of a country for which full integration is not to be envisaged in the short term. my last point is that i believe we have to revisit the problem issue of our identity, our cultural and geopolitical identity, in order to know exactly what the limits of our enlargement are.
we are talking about enlargement with regard to the western balkans, turkey and iceland, there are three different cases: on the one hand we have the countries of the western balkans, which are far from meeting the economic and political criteria that the union expects. in these countries, however, public opinion and political elites are supportive of the integration objective and are very optimistic about accession. on the other hand, we have the case of iceland, a country that meets many of the economic and political criteria, but where public opinion and elites are deeply divided over this goal of membership. what seems to be binding only at this moment for the countries of the western balkans and iceland is that a deep economic crisis is giving them the courage to join. on the other hand, however, we have the case of turkey, whose european aspiration is not linked in any way to the economic cycle and is one of the most dynamic countries in the world, where there is a great debate, last time 45% of turks supported this objective. i want to distinguish these three situations because the western balkans, iceland and turkey, respectively, are from the perspective of integration, three different situations. on the other hand, it is good to treat these cases beyond a bilateral political logic. in my view, differences between the member states and the countries that could become candidates cannot be used by either the member states or third countries to block a european path. i believe that the merits of each country and the public consensus are the only benchmarks of a european path.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to thank you for your work on enlargement. the european union has had a strong impact over the past two years on democratic change and economic liberalisation in the western balkans. the abolition of visas for some of the western balkan countries and the opening of firom accession negotiations is a step forward that will benefit european citizens as well, both from the judicial and police cooperation with the eu and from an economic point of view. i believe that in this period of economic crisis the enlargement process of the union is a solution for economic revitalization in the european union. but we must not forget the dire consequences of the unequal advantages offered by the european union to the various countries of the western balkans package. the commission should also consider including moldova in the western balkan package, as assistance to neighbouring states in implementing the necessary reforms needs to continue in a balanced manner. moldova is a potential candidate ready to align with the union in the process of political and economic integration.
the european union today has a constitution - the treaty of lisbon - a president and a high representative for foreign affairs and security affairs, and so we can look at the new enlargement process, which concerns the countries of the western balkans and iceland, but especially turkey, from a different perspective. i know that there are many within the european union who are hesitant to engage in a new process of enlargement, but the experience of romania and bulgaria, for example, shows that accession to the union has been the most powerful tool for our countries to change things for the better. of course, we must take a very critical look at the processes in all these countries that want to join the european union, especially we must focus on the soundness and functionality of democratic political systems. we have, however, sufficient instruments to ensure that the conditions of accession are met. giving these countries a clearer perspective on accession would be a stabilising element and a catalyst for internal progress in the candidate countries.
in writing. i think it is very important that the european parliament is concerned with the evaluation of the enlargement process. this process is a major success of the european union in bringing peace and stability. in this context, it is necessary to take into account that the western balkan countries are geographically, culturally and historically part of europe. among the potential candidate countries referred to in the resolution, i would like to highlight the efforts and concrete progress made by serbia. the country has moved to unilaterally apply the interim trade agreement with the eu, demonstrating its determination to move closer to the eu despite the political and economic difficulties it faces. the european parliament must encourage serbia to continue on the path to the eu. in this respect, we must ask the council and the commission to show openness and to continue negotiations with the country in a constructive manner. i believe that the progress of serbia's integration into the european union should not be made conditional on the recognition of kosovo's independence.
in writing. the eu is an edifice in the making, and the specter of stopping enlargement would be a challenge to the very principle that underpins it. according to article 49 of the eu treaty, 'any european state may apply to become a member of the union'. that is why the enlargement strategy for the western balkans, turkey and iceland is receiving increased attention in our actions, a concern to which i wholeheartedly attach myself. croatia, turkey and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have candidate status and are responsibly committed to integration. iceland, montenegro and albania have submitted applications for membership, the first two of which are currently being assessed by the commission. no doubt, there are still problems, such as corruption and crime or media freedom. a significant impetus in this process is the introduction of visa-free travel in serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia from 19 december. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about enlargement, we must also look at the republic of moldova, which is now at a crucial political moment for its commitment to democracy and eu accession. in this regard, we must support the implementation of the objectives of the european rm strategy 2007-2013 to achieve the results desired by both sides.
in writing. – iceland is already an active and long-standing partner in the wider european integration process. iceland cooperates closely with eu member states as a founding member of nato, a member of the council of europe, efta, the osce and the schengen cooperation. also, it has been estimated that iceland has already adopted some 60% of the vast aquis communautaire. from this point of view, the application of iceland for eu membership is a logical step. in my view iceland has always had a european vocation and icelandic membership will represent a win-win situation for both sides. we already learn from iceland's experience in sustainable management of fishing resources, the use of geothermal heat and measures to fight climate change. iceland has proven its determination to join the union by submitting the answers to the commission's questionnaire well ahead of the deadline and i look forward to the evaluation to be made at the summit in mid-december. if all requirements are met and the principle of own merits is respected, i hope iceland's accession can be coupled with that of croatia.
indeed, as noted here, violence against women is a very serious, often under-reported, phenomenon that is at an alarming rate in developing countries, especially those ravaged by war and conflict. rape and sexual violence against girls, women, and children have reached epidemic proportions in war-torn african countries, especially in congo, somalia, burundi, and liberia. sadly, it is not just countries in conflict that are characterized by massive violence; it is widespread even in the most peaceful and democratic countries of the world. it is our duty to focus our attention and efforts on punishing those who are guilty of human rights violations, in parallel with efforts to improve women's safety, as well as to ensure that victims of sexual assault receive appropriate assistance, from medical care to their family and social reintegration. finally, i would just like to recall the events in the committee on development dedicated to the international day for the elimination of violence against women and to thank commissioner de gucht for his presence at these events, for the interest shown in this subject and also commissioner ferrero-waldner for her presence at this debate.
violence against women, in its various forms, varies according to the economic, cultural and political context of society. it can range from psychological and physical abuse in the family to forced child marriage and other violent practices. all forms of violence against women are unacceptable violations of human rights and stand in the way of equal opportunities between women and men. this kind of violence is widespread. it kills more people than cancer and leaves a deep mark on the souls of people and the existence of societies. therefore, we should intensify our efforts to combat it. also, un estimates show that abuse not only persists but is on the increase, and sadly, most of the time these facts are not known or are simply ignored. in romania, i support the unfpa and un information centre campaign called "women in the shadows - shadows", a campaign to raise public awareness about the seriousness of the phenomenon.
citizens and the environment in the european union must benefit from the protection afforded by the ban on smoking in public places. we cannot ignore the fact that, at this moment, smoking remains one of the most important causes of illness and death. we fight dangerous epidemics with all our might and invent complicated and expensive vaccines to protect us from new viruses, but the effort to protect our children, families, and the environment from the harm of smoking is much more within our reach. simple logic, if not the use of concepts such as the right of the non-smoking majority, should convince us to treat this effort as a priority. recent studies show that smoking bans in north america and europe have led to rapid reductions in serious health problems, and this effect was seen almost immediately after the introduction of the smoking ban. in countries that have completely banned smoking in public places, the positive impact on health has been due to a combination of factors. these include eliminating secondhand smoke for smokers and reducing secondhand smoke for non-smokers. i would like to make one crucial point: smokers are a minority in the european union. of course, no one can suggest that individuals be given a ban on smoking, even in the name of principles that we all support, such as a well-protected public health or an environment free of sources of pollution. at the same time, however, the majority of non-smokers want an environment free of cigarette smoke. this truth should guide us in developing and supporting anti-smoking legislation. since the evidence suggests that smokers tend to quit smoking with the support of these supporting measures, i believe that we need to strengthen anti-smoking legislation as part of the community tobacco control policy in order to make a concrete contribution to improving public health in the european union.
the number of undernourished people in the world has passed the one billion mark, bringing the tragedy to one in six. sadly, as noted earlier, the leaders of the major industrial powers have treated with indifference such an important and necessary summit as the one organized by fao in rome a few days ago. the leaders of the g8 member states considered it appropriate not to attend this meeting, with the exception of the italian prime minister. i cannot help but notice the enormous and unjust discrepancy between the maximum attention of the representatives of this group of countries, which accounts for 60% of the world's gross domestic product, to rescuing the banking system, compared with the neglect of the dramatic reality of hunger that affects more and more of our fellow men, and the crisis that is not the fault of the poor countries, affects them the most. we've reached the worst point of global hunger since the 1970s. every six seconds, a child dies of hunger. sadly, the developed countries of the world are turning a blind eye to a tragedy that will affect us all with its complex implications. the best example and warning is the neglect of agriculture for over two decades, leading to the current food crisis. of total official development assistance, the share of agricultural aid fell from 17% in 1980 to 3,8% in 2006. food security is a serious challenge that requires urgent solutions, first and foremost by opening markets and helping farmers in developing countries to secure food and eradicate hunger as quickly as possible.
firstly, at the risk of repeating an idea already expressed by my colleague mr stoianov, i deplore the fact that in many european countries we have so much uncultivated land, while we are talking about world hunger. secondly, because the motion for a resolution deals with this issue and i am glad that the commissioner has raised this issue, i would like to draw attention to the danger that the very fashionable objective of food self-sufficiency can present. this objective, which is not synonymous with food security, can have an undesirable effect in the current context, because climate change affects each region differently. this situation makes trade more necessary than ever, rather than the ambition of each state to produce all that it wants to consume.
madam president, commissioner, as you are well aware, romania is not allowed to sell pork and pork products on the european market, but we have been given the right to import pork from other member states from next year and then export it in processed form. we also have to put in place clear, tough and costly rules on slaughter within a year. i am convinced that romanian pig farmers would be very happy if these rules were replaced by a system of superficial and selective controls or by some posters stuck in airports. of course, it's just a joke, but the rules, if there are rules, should be the same and binding on everyone.
i would like to stress first of all the quality of the effort made by mr gabriele albertini to draft this motion, and i would also like to say that i voted in favour of this motion, considering that enlargement is an important political gesture by the union. i would also like to point out that i voted differently from my political group on a number of issues, mainly on kosovo, because i have a different view on kosovo from that of most european countries. i therefore voted differently on amendment no 17 to rule 19, amendment no 22, amendment no 24 and also after citation 4 in paragraph 10. i still think enlargement is very important, but i also think that the differences expressed by five of the member states must be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft report on the european year of volunteering for several reasons. volunteering is known to have twofold benefits - for the individual and for society. on the one hand, volunteering offers citizens the opportunity to learn, acquire new skills and develop themselves. it also has a social function, helping to create a sense of solidarity and belonging. given the increasing interdependence of local communities in a globalised world, but also the exacerbation of individualism, it is essential to stimulate the social participation of citizens. i am talking about activities that involve young and old alike. moreover, i believe that the direct exchange of experience between volunteer organisations from the most diverse corners of the european union is highly impactful, given that the values that motivate them are the same. the aim is the same: to raise living standards and quality of life, to have a high level of employment, to improve social cohesion and to combat exclusion, the very values on which the european union is founded.
in writing. − the eu enlargement process is now taking place in the context of a strong and wide-ranging recession, which has affected both the eu and the enlarged countries. i welcome the progress made by turkey in meeting the criteria for accession to the union and, in particular, its signature of the intergovernmental agreement on the nabucco pipeline. implementing this agreement remains one of the eu's top priorities in energy security. they support the calls on the turkish government to continue reforming social policies, improve social dialogue in the labour market and step up efforts in the field of women's rights and gender equality, in particular in the fight against gender-based violence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because violence against women is still too much of a phenomenon both in romania and globally, and urgent action is needed to combat this scourge. it is not the legislation that remains the problem, but its implementation in the context of the reluctance of many women to complain to the authorities about the violence they are subjected to, preferring to suffer in silence. i believe that a strong campaign is needed at the level of the whole society, a continuous action, long-term, to influence the mindsets, so that everyone is aware that violence against women is something unacceptable and unforgivable. they argue that there is also a need for coordinated action by the authorities and civil society to support victims of domestic violence.
in writing. - i voted for the ep resolution for a political solution to piracy off the somali coast because maritime piracy is a reality and will continue to be a problem for the waters off somalia. the eu must, through international negotiations and safeguards, protect shipping in this region. part of the solution has to be international support for the stabilization of somalia. another part of the solution is the eu's recently launched 'atalanta' mission to stop piracy off the coast of somalia. six frigates, three airplanes and 1,200 personnel from the uk, france and greece will take part in the mission. other countries will contribute to the mission in the future. the atalanta mission succeeded in ensuring the protection of high-risk cargoes by escorting them. 36 pirate ships were intercepted and 14 direct attacks were prevented. however, in order to benefit from this escort, the national bodies responsible, as well as the maritime vessels, must notify the atalanta mission and request protection. it is essential that seagoing vessels do not take unnecessary risks and request, in a timely and formal manner, the protection of the atalanta mission.
in writing. - i welcome this resolution by which parliament supports the commission's very voluntary policy on tobacco control. exposure to tobacco smoke is the number one cause of death and disease in europe, and smoking is also a heavy burden on health systems. i hope that the commission's approach will go further and that in the years to come we will have the right to a healthy environment in all indoor spaces and workplaces. i cannot help but notice that in europe we still have a double standard. we want to reduce the health problems caused by smoking, but we support the continuation of subsidies for cigarette manufacturers, even if it is a gradual reduction scheme. i believe that the common agricultural policy should be defined to reward products that help to maintain and improve health, not to jeopardize it. i hope that at the december council meeting the protection of children will be discussed, particularly in cases where they are exposed to adult smoking in private vehicles or other enclosed spaces. i think adults have a responsibility to do that, and where the legislator can intervene, they should.
in writing. − i support all reasonable measures to combat smoking and protect non-smokers, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution. i have my doubts, however, about the effect of any measures against tobacco producers. romania currently has a cultivated area of about 1 600 hectares of tobacco, which provides a production of about 3 000 tonnes. however, romania grows little tobacco compared to the quantity needed by romanian processors, estimated at about 30 000 tonnes. the difference in quantity, of about 27 000 tonnes, comes from imports, mostly from regions in africa or asia. if we discourage tobacco production in the member states, we will only encourage these imports from third countries even more, to the detriment of european producers.
on behalf of the epp group. in vietnam, hundreds of people are being detained for their political and religious views, and the violent attack on buddhist monks in late september, i believe, shows that vietnam is refusing to improve its human rights record. in laos, a country under military dictatorship, leaders of the student and teacher movements launched a decade ago are still in secret detention, recent peaceful demonstrations for human rights have been suppressed by the secret police, and the hmong community continues to be subjected to persecution. both laos and vietnam must fully comply with international standards for the protection of human rights. the persecution of members of religious communities, minorities and citizens in general who are simply defending their political rights must stop. the european union is obliged to monitor human rights developments closely and to use all its influence to reverse this negative trend. (applause) thank you very much.
as is well known, the implementation of the strategies and operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 is still in its infancy and romania is able to benefit from community funds under cohesion policy for the first time. regional development policy is one of the most important and complex policies of the european union and its objective must be to reduce the economic and social disparities that exist, but in different regions of europe. i would like to note the efforts made by all member states to integrate the overall priorities of cohesion policy into the operational programmes. however, i believe that the role of the european union must be strategic, so that the successful implementation of operational programmes in all member states can be achieved as quickly as possible, promoting measures to strengthen institutional capacity according to the specific needs of each member state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, romania wants to be part of the schengen area from 2011. in this respect, it has been subject to five assessments, four of which have already been carried out. i would like to mention in particular the maritime border assessment mission, which was so appreciated by the schengen experts that romania was presented as an example of good practice. we have one more test to pass, though, and i am confident that we will pass it well. based on the example of romania, i propose that we look more optimistically at the enlargement of the schengen area, that is, that we no longer see this process as a threat to the security of our borders, but as an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between member states in the field of justice, freedom and security. i am pleased to see that these ideas are also reflected in the stockholm programme, adopted last week by the european council, which regards the enlargement of the schengen area as a priority for the internal policy of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two truly historic events marked the end of 2009: the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the copenhagen summit. i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction at the way in which the european union is proving to be the main actor in finding viable solutions to combat climate change. i am equally pleased that the member states have managed to reach some agreement and to present a common position, even though agreement among the 27 member states is not easy to achieve. the outcome may not be in line with our ambitions and expectations, but the decision by the eu states to provide 7.2 billion euros to developing countries is all the more important given the acute need for financial support. and perhaps by this example, the other un countries could be drawn in the same direction. it is also worth noting that the european union countries that have been seriously affected by the financial crisis so far have also expressed their solidarity, have made an effort and will contribute (even if some of them, in a symbolic way) to show their commitment to the fight against global warming.
mr president, as you probably know, romania has recently concluded a two-year period in which different elections were held every six months. the last electoral consultation was presidential and was won by the current president with the very narrow margin of 70 000 votes, coming mainly from the diaspora. what bothers me as a citizen is that, during the entire electoral campaign, i was not able to post anything critical of the current president on my blog, the europolis, while public access to my blog was interrupted altogether. i consider this unacceptable, both because it represents censorship of the right to free speech and because it shows that the internet, too, is controlled by those in power and/or their supporters. all in all, it is regrettable that, 20 years after the revolution, in which many people died so that democracy would take firm root, such attitudes are tolerated – possibly even encouraged – by those who temporarily enjoy the fruits of democracy, being elected to power even with such narrow margins.
i am pleased to announce the re-appointment of mr. traian basescu as president of romania. our entry into the european union in 2007 took place under the first term of president traian basescu and with his direct contribution. a new mandate will allow the president to continue reforms and the full application of european norms and values in romania. the conclusion that emerges from this presidential election is one: romania has had presidential elections that comply with international standards, as confirmed by osce observers, as well as the decision of the romanian constitutional court and the recount of null votes, which increased the president's advantage over his opponent. we consider that the democratic victory of president basescu, supported by the liberal democratic party, is also a victory for the european people's party. our colleagues from the epp, led by mr wilfried martens and mr joseph daul, have expressed their support for president basescu, for which we thank them once again.
in the second quarter of 2009, the 27 member states' revenues represented 43.9% of gross domestic product and their expenditure 49.7%. at the same time, at eu-27 level, taxes and social contributions accounted for around 90% of member states' overall revenues, although social welfare expenditure accounted for only 42.2% of gross domestic product. the budget deficit of the 27 member states increased from 0.8% in the second quarter of 2008 to 5.8% in the second quarter of 2009. during the same period, the employment rate decreased by 2% and industrial production by 10,2%. the sectors most affected were construction, agriculture, industrial production, trade, transport and communications. i believe it is absolutely essential that the future european commission presents a work programme focused on economic development, reducing unemployment and ensuring decent living conditions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to enter into a polemic with some of my colleagues who have spoken before me, but i believe that the world trade organisation has become all the more important as the current complexities of the economic environment require a multilateral institution to govern trade practices. through the doha development agenda, the wto will continue to improve the conditions for global trade and investment through clearer rules. given that the doha development agenda has an important role to play in growth, unemployment and poverty reduction, i believe it is necessary to conclude it in the course of 2010 and to maintain the development criterion as a central pillar of the agenda, which can be transformed into a solid framework for coordinating the activities of the many economic actors and for facilitating the exit from recession and the reconstruction of the economy. finally, i would like to recommend that the european commission regularly informs the european parliament of the state of play of the doha development agenda negotiations.
madam president, i would like to emphasize that the globalisation adjustment fund we have set up is intended for workers to develop their employability. so this is where we really need to act in depth. this is the meaning of the examination of the cases we are conducting in the group of the globalisation adjustment fund so that workers can be integrated into working life, remain in employment, because there is no social integration without occupational integration. the second point i would like to stress is that the automobile sector is very badly affected, and i ask the car manufacturers, who are feeling the effects of the crisis, to adjust their offer to both the new environmental objectives and the new consumer needs. the sustainability of this sector is at stake. finally, i ask everyone to follow the committee on budgets in its proposal - i thank reimer böge for his proposal - and i ask, as paul rübig has done, that our policies be followed up in their effects.
in the last year, we have approved several such allocations of european globalisation adjustment fund funds to provide additional support for workers who are suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of global trade. the economic crisis has dramatically affected global trade. and in my region, i can tell you that in the last year there have been almost 2,500 redundancies in the steel industry, almost 700 in the shipbuilding industry and next, it has been announced, almost 6,000 in rail transport. that is why i think it is important that in 2010 we are prepared for many such requests that will come because of the economic crisis, and the procedure available must be a simple one so that states and beneficiaries can easily access it. the fact that sweden applied in june, austria in july, the netherlands in august, that is a few months ago, and that is why i think the procedure should be simple.
the microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion allows, and should allow, simple procedures to be applied so that those concerned can benefit from it effectively. however, i believe that the microfinance facility should be more dedicated to people who have lost their jobs and are at a disadvantage in terms of access to the conventional credit market and who wish to start or further develop their own micro-enterprise, including self-employment. i believe that special attention should be paid to young people who, unfortunately, according to recent european statistics, are facing increasingly long periods of unemployment or are employed on a temporary basis. the annual report on the use of the budget allocated will also allow in the near future a serious analysis and possibly a future supplement of its budget. if we transfer the funds from one program to another, we risk undermining both.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the debate has clearly shown parliament's support for the microfinance instruments and i think that, in substance, there are no major differences and, in substance, i think there is also a considerable similarity with the council's position. what remains open is the question of funding. however, the question of financing is also part of the codecision process, i.e. it will be very necessary and necessary to seek a compromise, and i am very pleased that the debate has signalled a great willingness to resume negotiations with the council without delay. the debate also suggested some partial possibilities for compromise. the commission was often criticised in the debate, and the question of progress and its use in this new instrument was often raised. i must say that the commission was not faced with a simple question, because it had to operate within the framework of the existing budget, that is to say, within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement. she could only use the money that was available. in evaluating our decision to use progress funds, we have considered the implications very carefully and have come to the conclusion that, while not an ideal solution, it is probably one of the possible solutions. it was often said in the debate that these were so-called taschentricks, that is, money transfer from one pocket to another. this is not the case, since all analyses clearly show that the funds used under the microcredit principle are subject to a multiplication effect, which is estimated at five times. in other words, in another programme these resources would reach index 1, in the microcredit programme they could theoretically reach index 5. in this respect, it is not a simple transfer from one pocket to another, but a new use of the funds. i repeat, this was not an easy decision, and i do not think it is the only one, and i am sure that there is a good basis for a debate in the search for a compromise, i hope. the idea of microcredit is based on the clear recognition that the current financial system does not provide sufficient resources for small and very small businesses, i.e. that the system does not use the human capital that is present in people who are in the so-called vulnerable groups. i consider this a great waste of opportunity and i am therefore very pleased that the commission has proposed this instrument and i am also very pleased that parliament has assessed it in such a positive way. as i mentioned, the idea is to tap into the human capital that's in people who wouldn't normally tap into their capital in this entrepreneurial way. but what is very important is to take advantage of the time. i think that to have an excessively long debate would be contrary to the very purpose of this instrument, which is particularly needed in times of crisis. i also believe that it will be needed beyond the crisis and that it will become a permanent part of european labour market policy and european economic policy.
in writing. the economic crisis has become an acute social crisis, for which we have not yet found a remedy. unfortunately, one of the indicators that could contribute to the recovery, the level of credit, has reached a record low in the eurozone since 1991 and is experiencing an unprecedented collapse in the new member states, such as romania. it's one of the elements that casts doubt on the prospects of overcoming the recession. in this context, i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish the microfinance facility. however, for social inclusion measures to be effective, it is necessary to enter the instrument in a separate budget line. the reallocation of funds under the progress programme would affect the specific community action lines and would be a worrying sign of the social openness of a european executive, which has unfortunately been extremely reluctant to engage in adequate social involvement. the crisis affects all vulnerable groups, but we cannot ignore the seriousness of unemployment among young people. the fact that one in five young europeans is unemployed can have multiple implications, from economic and social to demographic and criminal. that is why i think that more emphasis should be placed on stimulating the entry of young people into the labour market.
in writing. compared with the autumn of last year, more than 5 million european citizens lost their jobs, bringing the total number of unemployed in the european union to 22.5 million. in this context, we cannot ignore the serious situation of unemployment among young people. it is extremely worrying that one in five young europeans is out of work, which has repercussions both economic and social, demographic and criminal. there are countries where the share of young people without work is even higher, in proportion to the national unemployment rate: one third of young people in latvia are unemployed, and in spain about 43% of citizens under 25 are affected. i believe that more attention should be paid to young people and the european commission's initiative on microfinance programmes under a separate budget line is one of encouraging and stimulating young people to enter the labour market and by implication reducing the unemployment rate that has increased among them.
in writing. current efforts at community and national level need to be stepped up to increase the supply of microcredit. the european microfinance facility should be a useful aid for unemployed and vulnerable people who want to start or develop micro-enterprises. i believe that the european microfinance facility should have a separate credit line, because its beneficiaries are different from those of the progress programme. under no circumstances should progress funds be reduced during this crisis period, as it targets the most vulnerable groups. i also believe that the european microfinance facility should have a budget large enough to be truly effective in achieving its employment and social inclusion objectives. member states and the eu as a whole need to continue to implement progress effectively in the face of the global economic crisis.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the results achieved in the negotiation of the 2010 budget. european citizens need a strong european budget now more than ever to deal with the economic crisis and their problems. member states' budgets are facing major difficulties in coping with the economic crisis, especially as many of the problems they are facing are beyond their national borders. these challenges are global and require coordinated responses at the highest level. that is why i am very pleased that we can present here today a budget which will fully finance the second phase of the european economic recovery plan, worth 1980 million euro. it is likely that in 2010 we will see the first signs of economic recovery, but national budgets will be severely affected by the efforts made in the last year. unemployment will also reach record levels in the member states. the future commission will have a very great responsibility in helping the member states and the citizens of the union to overcome these difficulties. i would like to draw the attention of the member states to their responsibility in accessing european funds. it is useless to go to the trouble of negotiating to get money for cohesion policies if these funds are not used. i join my colleagues in calling for an urgent review of the multiannual financial framework 2007-13 without which we will not be able to come here next year with a budget for 2011. i would like to stress one last point: the 2010 budget will bring another innovation, which to many may seem minor, but it is not. i am referring to the launch of the preparatory action for the creation of a common european framework for the black sea. this action represents the recognition of the black sea as an important european subject and reduces the discrepancy between the treatment of the black sea and that of the baltic sea within the policies of the european union.
in writing. the eu budget for 2010 is the last budget approved under the treaty of nice. the new treaty gives the european parliament greater power and the final say in adopting the budget. parliament and the council will have equal powers as legislators in areas such as agriculture, energy, immigration, justice and home affairs, health and the structural funds, including, of course, their budgets. the 2010 budget allocates significant percentages to conservation and management of natural resources, social and economic cohesion, growth and employment, competitiveness and innovation, regional development, agriculture and rural development. the european economic recovery plan is reflected in the eu budget for 2010 with €2.4 billion to finance strategic projects in energy, transport, the development of broadband networks in rural areas and support for rural communities. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has managed to allocate eur 300 million to support milk producers. the economic crisis has affected member states' gdp and will affect member states' contributions to the eu budget. i hope that the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 financial framework in 2010 will allow member states to better absorb structural funds, especially in the area of transport and energy efficiency of housing.
in writing. − i am delighted that the european parliament has today approved a scheme for ensuring that additional loans will be made available to small businesses. this decision will allow eur 100 million to be made available at regional and national level over the next four years. this is a valuable and timely development which will provide many of those people suffering the effects of the global recession with new opportunities. the measures announced today will support those wanting to start new businesses, as well as providing professional training – thereby increasing the range of skills upon which citizens can draw to set up the enterprises which are vital to europe’s economy. more and more, we are seeing greater consideration of small and medium enterprises in european union policy and legislation. i welcome this new development, and in particular the european parliament’s contribution to stimulating the development of small businesses in difficult economic times.
in writing. – i welcome the recent council conclusions on this matter, particularly regarding the issue of east jerusalem. the council has set out a clear position on several key issues, including the 1967 borders, israeli settlements, access to gaza, and support for a two-state solution in which jerusalem would be a shared capital. these remain some of the crucial sticking points and the council has succeeded in addressing them in its conclusions. the council has provided the eu's high representative with a list of concrete objectives and a clear direction in which the eu wants to see the negotiations moving. i am hopeful that this clarity and unity from the member states will lead to more effective eu involvement in the negotiations, and an increased capacity to engage with other key actors in the peace process.
mr president, before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the three proposals in question were based on articles 60, 301 and 308 of the treaty establishing the european community. this is now only of historical interest, since the legal basis has changed and we have to refer to articles 215 and 75 of the new treaty. incredible as it might seem, the lisbon treaty limited the role of the european parliament in this particular case. article 215 clearly states that the council only has to inform the european parliament on the measures adopted, as opposed to the former procedure that implied the consultation of parliament on such matters. i cannot accept that, and i strongly support my colleagues’ initiative to clarify parliament’s involvement in this area. leaving aside the legal aspect that i hope will be solved through good cooperation between the european institutions, i would like to draw your attention to the important problem that we are debating here, which is fighting terrorism and terrorism-related activities, such as the ones carried out by osama bin laden and the al-qa’ida network. i think that when it comes to such sensitive topics we cannot afford to classify them into strict categories such as eu-internal and eu-external issues, because terrorist actions might be planned outside the eu but can seriously affect the people living inside the eu. we have the responsibility to protect these european citizens against terrorist action, so we have to be given the tools to do that. i trust your good judgement in solving this procedural problem, and i am looking forward to hearing the opinion of the representatives of the council and the commission.
the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the region. time has shown, however, that europe is closely linked to these black sea countries. in the black sea region, georgia is of particular strategic importance for energy security, as supply routes such as the nabucco gas pipeline, the baku-tbilisi oil pipeline and the supsa oil terminal are closely linked to the stability of this country. the conflicts in georgia in august 2008 have demonstrated that any frozen conflict can flare up at any time, seriously affecting the stability and security of the entire area. it is our duty to bring georgia into the euro-atlantic area of stability and security, even if russia's influence is still very strong. equally necessary is the recognition of the right of refugees, displaced persons and their descendants to return to abkhazia, regardless of their ethnic origin. at the same time, the granting of citizenship by russia to the inhabitants of abkhazia and ossetia clearly defores georgian citizens, as there is still no agreement on the granting of visas by the eu, although i heard earlier the commission representative say that steps are being taken in this regard. romania was involved in the eu monitoring mission in georgia, both at operational level and on the ground, as well as at the tbilisi headquarters. our country also remains committed to making special efforts to bring georgia closer to the eu and nato. we will also send a national expert to work at the nato offices in tbilisi. we welcome the position of the eu presidency. under no circumstances will we recognize so-called states created illegally and in conflict in the breakaway regions, nor illegal electoral processes, such as the one held in abkhazia recently. the president of the pro-russian georgian breakaway republic won the election with 59.4 percent of the vote, and i should mention that none of the five presidential candidates categorically rejected the idea of reunification with georgia.
under the lisbon treaty, the eu economy is a social market economy. our main concern must be to create new jobs, reduce unemployment and get out of the economic crisis. the member states of south-east europe are experiencing excessive deficits. they must stimulate job creation while maintaining a sustainable fiscal policy in the long term. education, health, agriculture and the development of transport and energy infrastructure remain the main priorities of these member states. it is important that the level of agricultural subsidies in these member states is at the same level as in the older member states. european balance of payments assistance for five years can be granted if the beneficiary member states commit to reform their tax systems or take measures to increase administrative capacity, to increase, or to maximise the absorption of european funds. these member states also need support to modernise their highly polluting industrial sectors so that emissions are reduced but jobs are preserved and economic growth is ensured. one last thing i would like to add, i believe that in order to support these member states, cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 must continue to favour europe's less economically developed regions.
thanks to the successful implementation of the european economic recovery plan, the next year, 2010, will see a slight improvement for the member states of the european union. the countries of the central and eastern european union were affected by the economic crisis in different ways: while poland experienced slight economic growth, avoiding the crisis, romania and hungary were severely affected by the economic crisis. romania has been through an unprecedented economic crisis this year, amplified by a serious political instability generated by the socialists, who wanted to leave the government for electoral purposes due to the next presidential elections. the presidential election was two months away. the socialists' exit from the government and the introduction of a motion of censure in parliament left romania for two months with an interim government with reduced powers, which could not finalize and adopt a draft budget in parliament. the international monetary fund has therefore deferred the third tranche of its loan of 1.5 billion euros. but the swiss government decided to give us a non-repayable loan of about 120 billion euros. my country has had an 8% economic decline and an unemployment rate two points below the eu average. in the future, the eu needs a focused strategy to withdraw governments from supporting national economies. in romania, however, this will not be possible until 2010 because the agreement with the imf does not allow it.
i'm all for the saying that if you come home from fishing and you meet someone on the road, teach them to fish instead of giving them a fish. but we have to know that we have to teach them to fish. and i am talking about the new member states who still have to learn, but they cannot do it on their own, which means we have to allocate financial resources. i personally believe that a healthy economy is primarily composed of medium-sized enterprises; that therefore economic, social and territorial cohesion policies should primarily target the allocation of european cohesion funds to this economic class. i would add that the eu's policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion has recently been neglected in the setting of the european union's priorities. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of europe. turning to the serious issues, the economic squeeze in the countries of central europe has reached dramatic proportions. the gaps between these countries and the rich countries of western europe are widening; moreover, the capacity of these countries to produce economic and financial incentives remains so low that it hardly matters. i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the fact that, as a result of the social costs, the considerable increase in unemployment, the terrible budget cuts, the capacity of these countries to co-finance projects with european funding is also low. all of this can condemn the countries of central europe. ..the president interrupts the speaker)
mr. president, i have to go. the flu hits people with weak bodies. so what the countries of central and eastern europe need is not just vaccination, but also organisational strengthening. what do i mean? system change should be supported, not just the economy, of course, but also the economy, the media and politics in most of the countries of central and eastern europe are still in the hands of those who have systematically destroyed this region for 40 years. so we should support what we call european values, so that in one country there is no debate about multilingualism in europe, that a language law is needed, and that in another country there is no discussion about collective criminality, or even about stealing european values into the treaty as a footnote. the countries of central and eastern europe need it, therefore.
in writing. as the global economic crisis continues to affect europe, the countries of central and eastern europe are feeling the effects more acutely, due to the economic development gaps between the old member states and the states in the latest waves of accession. the economic crisis is widening the gaps, putting additional pressure on governments to deal with macroeconomic constraints, the social effects of the crisis, and to address issues of financial vulnerability and the sustainability of public health and social security systems. in view of these constraints of economic and social policy, i hope that the commission will adopt an integrated plan addressing the specific problems of this area, a plan which will support the efforts of the states to maintain economic and social balances. central and eastern european countries have turned to loans from the imf, the world bank and the european union to try to counter domestic difficulties, but financial resources are not coming in at the pace needed to support government action. that is why i am calling for the urgent release of these resources and the adoption of a plan to support the economies of this area.
in writing. romania and bulgaria are feeling the full impact of the global economic downturn, which has come to the two countries, the latest to join the european union, amid a gap with the developed economies of the other member states. the latest eurobarometer shows that the people of both countries are very concerned about the economic trajectory of their countries and how the crisis affects each citizen personally. beyond the eurobarometer conclusions, the effects of the crisis will be more acute in the middle of winter. it is the duty of national governments to take the best possible measures to ensure that the winter passes without dramatic social consequences. the international monetary fund and the european commission have been involved in helping romania and bulgaria, both financially and in terms of expertise, by imposing macroeconomic indicators. greater involvement of the european commission in stabilising the economies of romania and bulgaria will have beneficial effects throughout the european union, which cannot afford major imbalances at the moment. all eu countries are feeling the impact of the crisis, but it is clear that the new member states are having a harder time than the old ones' thriving economies. the european union has solidarity as a fundamental value, and the economic recession is a good time to show this.
in writing. the global economic crisis has had different effects in the different member states of the european union. the new member states in central and eastern europe have proved to be the most vulnerable. the reality was that member states had unequal access to the resources of the european economic development plan. we also saw that the eurozone member states were the most protected from the crisis. it is no coincidence that the crisis has had the most severe consequences in those member states which have not used the instruments of the recovery and which are not members of the euro area. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european union has left the era of institutional reform. what is needed now is a joint effort to increase the cohesion of the european union. this is a prerequisite for the union to emerge from the crisis as a stronger, more decisive global actor. the social and employment crisis will have its greatest impact in 2010, and the new member states will certainly be the first to suffer. an economic recovery plan that is effectively equally accessible to all member states is needed, and the conditions for joining the euro area should be made more flexible. these are the obvious steps to building a strong europe, a community of half a billion european citizens who share the same values and are driven by the same ideas.
as a protestant minister who holds the eight-pointed star, not the cross, as their most important symbol, allow me to add briefly to this debate. i come from a constituency where 99% of the electorate is catholic. all four of my children attend catholic schools. we don't mind the cross. and here i want to make a distinction -- and i'm sorry, this is a professional matter -- between a cross and a crucifix. you know, i'm not bothered by it, but some people are bothered by the cross or the crucifix because they see the cross or the crucifix of the inquisition. i think it is appropriate in countries where the catholic tradition has made it so that the cross is in the school, especially if it is a church school, but it is not these that parliament should be debating, but poverty, the economic crisis, the east european catch-up. this is a fruitless discussion we're having. we have to look at the italian school that protested, why they protested, and this particular case should have been investigated, not here to debate something that is outdated. and naturally, i want to reiterate that i have no objection to the cross, i live every day with the cross in front of me, it doesn't bother me. we must create conditions in italy or romania that do not make this a matter of debate.
mr president, in all fairness, i believe the swedish presidency can be satisfied with its achievements, and i think that sweden can be proud of the performance of the swedish presidency. however, as always with the short-term presidencies, when they are good, they leave us with a bitter feeling of a somehow unaccomplished job. therefore, i believe the most important question now is: how and what could we further build on the achievements of the swedish presidency? the first thing is the implementation of the lisbon treaty. a treaty is never enough for solving a problem. political will is always needed in order to enhance it properly but, in this case, i think that we need even more than will. we need courage and imagination – imagination to fill the gaps or to clarify the ambiguities of the treaty. therefore i hope that, starting with the experience it has accumulated, the swedish presidency will still remain involved in supporting the building of the new institution which the lisbon treaty has created, namely the permanent – or long-term – president of the european council and the office of high representative with the external action service. one of the priorities of the swedish presidency was, of course, the management of the economic and financial crisis. this was very important. against this background, i think two phenomena which are quite threatening have been observed: firstly, the temptation of national protectionism and national egoism, and, secondly, the economic and social disparities between our member states and the lack of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union. should we call into question the wisdom of enlargement? certainly not. these disparities were already there before, and interdependence is valid not only within the union but globally. therefore these disparities were able to undermine or to put in jeopardy the stability of the whole continent and the union. therefore, i think that enlargement made it possible for the new member states to cope with these disparities better inside the union, for the profit of all members of the union. but the conclusion is as follows, and i will end here. i believe that the next step is to pursue bolder and more substantial policies of territorial, economic and social cohesion in europe – and not fewer policies of this kind – together with bold reforms, financial and economic reforms which would allow us not to repeat the crisis, and, certainly, with policies for post-crisis rehabilitation. in this context, the last statement of the commission concerning economic support for eastern countries, as well as the readiness expressed by mr barroso to debate the 2020 strategy, should be commended.
i was rapporteur for the energy efficiency of buildings, a document that i negotiated in the second reading with the swedish presidency of the council of the european union, a report of great importance for the future of the european union and for the fight against climate change. it is also important for the copenhagen conference, but especially for the 2.7 million jobs that can be created by 2020 in this sector. as regards the comitology part, negotiations have begun under the lisbon treaty for an institutional agreement on the powers and acts delegated to the commission. as the lisbon treaty creates a new basis for both climate change and a common energy policy, i hope - and we expect the european commission, mr president barroso - to present a work programme for the next five years so that the commissioners we are hearing from can also respond to these challenges. a final point: i would like to refer to the removal of barriers to the free movement of labour for workers in the new member states which should be a conclusion of the swedish presidency of the european union.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the role of the parliament in the european decision-making process and, by implication, the legitimacy of this institution in the eyes of its citizens. i therefore congratulate the swedish presidency on the outstanding efforts it has made to bring the new treaty into force. i also appreciate the developments in the field of justice and home affairs. the stockholm programme, drawn up in recent months and voted at the european council on 10 and 11 december, sets out the new reference framework in this field for the period 2010-14. i am pleased to see that parliament's recommendations have been taken into account at council level. i am referring in particular to the extension of the schengen area to all eu countries, which is now becoming a priority for the internal policy of the european union following our amendments.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency on the six months of ambitious work, in the difficult context of the economic and financial crisis, the preparations for the copenhagen summit and the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. we finally have, through the treaty of lisbon, a clear institutional framework to address all the challenges facing the contemporary world. the new treaty enables the eu to firmly assume both its mandate as a pioneer in the fight against climate change and its status as a global player, both in its relations with the united states and the russian federation and with emerging countries. the new permanent president of the council and the high representative will also ensure continuity in the union's external policy action, which is a step forward in strengthening the eu's role on the world stage. as a result of all these institutional changes, the eu will be more effective and have a wider range of ways to tackle the major challenges facing the international community, namely combating terrorism, adapting to climate change, ensuring energy security and combating the effects of the economic and financial crisis. i am convinced that the spanish presidency will be able to live up to expectations and to continue successfully the actions and activities initiated by the swedish presidency.
in writing. the swedish presidency has taken a step forward with three major actions: - the election of the eu president and high representative for foreign affairs, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty; - the adoption of the stockholm multiannual programme 2010-2014; - the preparation and coordination of the cop15 climate change negotiations in copenhagen. i welcome the council's decision on the willingness of the eu and its member states to contribute with a rapid initial funding of eur 2.4 billion per year for the period 2010-2012 to support developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change. i would, however, ask the commission to devise an appropriate mechanism for allocating the financial effort between the member states according to the economic strength of each.
madam president, the plan of action on afghanistan and pakistan adopted last october is in itself a good document. its aim is to create the conditions for returning responsibility from the international community, including the eu, to the afghan state, with the former in a support role. the same is envisaged by the us in the security sector. it is hoped that the additional 30 000 us troops will create a situation in which responsibility could be handed over to the afghan forces by 2011 when the us withdrawal will commence. even if both the eu and the us have similar aims, namely creating the conditions for the afghan state to take responsibility for its own affairs, the time-frame for achieving those aims is inevitably different. adequate security will have to be achieved by 2011, while state building will inevitably take longer. the question, then, is: supposing adequate security is either not achieved by 2011 or deteriorates again after the us pull-out, will the eu, already involved in state building, be ready to take over the task of providing security too? i think not – and then we have a problem.
for over eight years, our countries have been wasting lives, energy and vast funds in a war-torn country where two other empires have been stuck together: the british and the soviet. unfortunately, the taliban's growing political and military influence, the poverty that is plaguing this country, the status of women, the opium trade, the widespread corruption, all of these testify to the failure of the operations so far in afghanistan. i believe that the european union's strategy must counter the prospect of chaos and violence by strengthening and streamlining its military presence and stepping up efforts to rebuild, develop and democratize afghanistan. increased development aid to afghanistan is, in essence, an investment in our own security and therefore we must make every effort to bring this failed state back on its feet and to ensure a minimum of physical and material security for its citizens.
in writing. the problems in afghanistan and pakistan are not limited to these countries. they affect us all. the mission begun in afghanistan must be carried out. in this regard, romania is open to considering the possibility of increasing participation in this country, including through the complementation of the army training, medical and institutional support forces. romania currently has 1,020 soldiers in afghanistan whose work to ensure peace and stability is unanimously appreciated by our allies. we must be involved both militarily and in ensuring the strengthening of afghan state institutions, local and regional governance, the fight against corruption and the narcotics trade, the training of police forces and technical assistance for agricultural development. i would like to draw attention to the announcement by mrs catherine ashton that the european commission is increasing its development aid to afghanistan. the european union's actions in afghanistan and pakistan must be coordinated. the two countries' situations are closely intertwined and the success of one depends on the other. the european union must continue its partnership with pakistan and help the country in the fight against extremism and terrorism, but also in trade relations and the promotion of human rights.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, commissioner, honourable members, i think it is extremely valuable that we have such strong support among all the european institutions for the approach towards belarus. it is, indeed, a very difficult partner, but it is our neighbour, a country with which we share borders. some countries here have close and historic relations with the people there, so we must do our utmost to support the development towards democracy, human rights, the rule of law and market economy. we are concerned about certain backlashes lately, for instance the young student who was expelled. the swedish presidency has reacted very firmly in minsk and also issued lots of statements: it is, of course, something that we deplore and it should not happen. we have had lots of contact with civil society during this year. there was a conference just a few weeks ago in brussels with civil society. i personally met representatives from all the opposition in stockholm a few weeks ago, and they are continuous efforts to liaise with civil society and the opposition. they are weak but they are there and they need our support, and that support will continue. i think mr godmanis’ idea on the conference theme is a very interesting one. it certainly merits being explored to see if we can move forward. this dual approach towards belarus – the ‘stick and carrot’, as i think mr tannock called it – is hopefully the one that will succeed. it shows that we are truly committed, we stuck out our hands. we can show mr lukashenko and the belarus regime that, if you move towards democracy, if you move towards respecting international values, there is another way for you. there is a way towards european integration; there is a way towards engagement with the european union, towards visa facilitation and deepening of the eastern partnership. now it is up to them to respond. we have given them our hand and, with the full support of all the european institutions, please, minsk, take it, because you and the belarus people have a lot to win.
member of the commission. − mr president, in conclusion i would like to stress that i found – and i am also speaking on behalf of benita ferrero-waldner, of course – our exchanges today to be very frank and extremely useful. i wish to thank you for a constructive and forward-looking debate. the eu is, in principle, ready to work closely with minsk and support urgently needed political and economic reforms. should there be significant steps from the belarusian leadership in terms of democratisation, the eu would be prepared to see belarus as a full member of the eastern partnership. in the mean time, the eu is, and will be, urging belarus to take further irreversible steps towards democratic standards, without which our relationship cannot develop to its full potential. i sincerely hope that in 2010 we will be in a position to engage gradually and intelligently with belarus and offer the belarusian people a vision and tangible benefits of a close relationship with the eu. the eu expects belarus to take a series of accompanying measures in the area of democratic reforms, with a view to coming closer to the eu and together help expand the area of peace, stability and prosperity involving all six eastern partnership countries, as well as russia, the eu’s strategic partner. there are five measures we expect belarus to take resolutely and irreversibly. firstly, to ensure there is no backtracking on political prisoners and politically motivated criminal prosecution. secondly, carry out a thorough reform of the electoral legislation in line with osce/odihr recommendations. thirdly, embark upon the liberalisation of the media environment, uphold freedom of speech and of assembly. fourthly, improve through regulatory and legislative measures working conditions for ngos. fifthly, abolish or declare a moratorium on the death penalty. a significant move in showing belarus’ commitment to shared values would be the immediate introduction of a moratorium on the death penalty and its subsequent abolition as a crucial step forward on its path to council of europe membership. in its november conclusions the council of the eu urged belarus to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty. moreover, the commission has carried out communication actions in the wake of the 10th international day against the death penalty. what could the eu do for belarus? what is on offer? the commission believes that the most productive approach to belarus will be one based on pragmatism. progressive eu engagement with belarus needs to reflect positive steps by belarus itself, but we also need to show flexibility. the november 2009 conclusions of the general affairs and external relations council (gaerc) allow the eu to offer incentives to belarus for steps we want to see, while remaining true to our principles. this is what i mean by pragmatism. our message to belarus is clear. first, the eu is ready to work closely with minsk and support its political and economic development and, should there be significant positive steps from the belarusian leadership, we would be prepared to see belarus as a full member of the eastern partnership. this would entail the development of our relationship through the bilateral track of the eap, the launching of a thorough political and economic dialogue, as well as enhanced sectoral cooperation. in the mean time, belarus was invited in may 2009 to join the multilateral dimension of the eap. it is participating constructively at deputy minister level in the four multilateral forums – democracy and governance, economic integration, energy security and people-to-people contacts. secondly, we expect belarus to take further irreversible steps towards democratic standards, without which our relationship cannot develop to its full potential. thirdly, the absence of a pca is not only a loss to belarus; it deprives us of a legal basis for structures like a formal human rights dialogue and addressing trade or energy transit issues. in the commission we continue to believe that the ratification of the pca will be a useful step forward, but clearly we will continue to use this as an incentive lever to encourage further moves on the belarusian side. fourthly, and lastly, the commission has started working on the implementation of the november 2009 gaerc conclusions, and will come back to the council of eu ministers with proposals as soon as possible.
in writing. democratic values and respect for human rights and individual freedoms are the foundation on which the eu is built. since our fundamental objective is to help our neighbouring states to democratize, and belarus is one of the last countries with an authoritarian regime in europe, i think we should put very clear and strict political conditions on belarus before any political contact. belarus has made some reforms, but these are small in comparison with the problems that persist, especially with respect to human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. we need to support activists who are fighting for human rights and individual freedoms. i support the idea of contacts with the opposition and especially the promotion of one-to-one contacts between eu citizens and belarusians, so that the latter can communicate freely with people who share democratic values. this would contribute to the development of civil society and allow a process of democratization that would enjoy popular support and that would start from the people themselves. only then can we build a healthy democracy, where the rights of all are respected. sanctions as a means of pressure must therefore be combined with facilitating contacts between eu and belarusian citizens.
as has been pointed out, millions of civilians have been deliberately killed in military operations in eastern congo, and such news is likely to become commonplace because of the unprecedented frequency of violence in the country, which is affecting children, girls, women, not to mention civilian human rights defenders and journalists. the humanitarian crisis is deepening day by day, and the insecurity in the area is making it impossible for humanitarian organizations to intervene. in the first nine months of this year alone, there were over 7,500 cases of rape and sexual violence, more than in the whole of the previous year, all of which occurred amidst the hunger and extreme poverty affecting millions of people. all these tragedies are the fault of both the congolese army and the rwandan rebels, but unfortunately there are signs that much of the responsibility lies with the un troops in congo, who tolerate serious human rights violations. that is why i believe that the european union must urgently consider how the un forces in the congo are truly serving the objectives of the mission entrusted to them. measures are also needed to stop money laundering, arms and gold trafficking, which illegally takes out of congo over 37 tons of gold a year, worth over 1 billion euros, money used to buy weapons and encourage crime in the country.
at the present time, which coincides with the united nations preparing to decide on the extension of monuc's mandate, we must, i believe, reflect on the actions of the international community in the light of the situation on the ground in the drc, a situation which unfortunately continues to deteriorate. as the experience of the operation conducted by the congolese armed forces with the support of monuc, known as operation kimia ii, shows, military success is not enough when the humanitarian cost is high and when it translates into the suffering of the congolese civilian population. i believe that the recent military operations against the fdlr have had catastrophic consequences that have led, we must be aware of this, to massive human rights violations and that have aggravated the humanitarian crisis. on the other hand, impunity is an invitation to repeat crimes. in my view, the protection of the civilian population must be a top priority and the european parliament must strongly state that acts of violence, especially sexual violence, as well as human rights violations in general, the abuses committed in kivu, must stop immediately, as must the climate of impunity.
on behalf of the alde group. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union, and this includes the free movement of professionals, an essential condition for the proper functioning of the internal market. as has been said in all the interventions so far, despite the adoption of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in 2005, professionals who wish to benefit from the right of free movement still face many difficulties. i have personally encountered various cases of this kind, which were brought to my attention by romanian citizens, but also by european citizens, relating to various professions. my colleagues in the committee on the internal market have honoured me by appointing me rapporteur for the european solvit network and, as has been said, a significant proportion of the cases solvit has to deal with are related to the dysfunctions of the system for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. i think, colleagues, that we need to study in detail what the problems are that have been presented to the solvit centers, to see what we can improve. better communication between contact points is also needed to foster mutual understanding between member states. they need to understand how the other systems in the european union work so that they have as much flexibility as possible in applying the directive and avoid the administrative obstacles that stand in the way of professionals. finally, it is desirable that the five member states which have not yet completed the transposition of the directive, or of the 22 which have done so but which still have problems in transposing it or have not transposed it properly, should act quickly to correct these situations, in order to finally allow the proper functioning of the internal market in the provision of services, which is directly affected by the problems of recognition of professional qualifications.
i find this debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2013 particularly useful. today, especially in the context of the crisis, the differences between the levels of development of the different regions of europe are large and are widening. european local regions need the continuation of cohesion policy to achieve the proposed objectives. reducing disparities between regions must happen at a much faster pace, not slowing down. of course, the involvement of regional and local levels of governance must increase, but these regions must not feel that they are being gradually forgotten and abandoned. many countries in the union base their development efforts and national economic policy on the objectives of cohesion policy. my country, romania, also sees it as particularly useful to continue the current cohesion policy beyond 2013, combining national efforts and funds with those provided by the structural funds and regional funding.
mr president, the rise of multi-level governance has resulted in an increasing need for coordinating mechanisms and platforms, and local authorities often find themselves having to address social disparities caused by developments of policies over which they have no control and little influence. moreover, it is very difficult to estimate the long-term effects of projects financed by european funds and the impact of programmes which are implemented at the same time. i would like to know how the european commission intends to support the efforts of local authorities to generate an integrated and sustainable development strategy based on the needs of the communities and taking into account the needs which could be influenced by external causes. what instruments will be developed by the european commission for local authorities?
i would like to add to what my colleague said that when we talk about smart cities, it's important to invest more in energy efficiency in our homes. 90% of the buildings that will exist in 2020 are still there today, which is why i am calling for future cohesion policy to increase the share of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states for energy efficiency in buildings and, in particular, in housing. i also think we need to invest more in public transport to develop urban mobility.
i wanted to explain my vote on mr. schultz's first motion, which i didn't think would be a motion, so i didn't sign up before, but i would like to explain my vote on mr. schultz's first motion, which was about... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − the outcome of the vote on the 2010 budget is an important step in the development and implementation of common rules and measures needed to regulate the situation in the energy, technology, agriculture and infrastructure sectors and is seen as a real support in the context of the economic crisis facing the member states. i welcome the allocation of eur 300 million, whereas initially only eur 280 million had been allocated, as immediate aid to milk producers facing a price collapse leading to uncertainty and i believe that this action will tackle the causes, but above all the effects, that have led to this severe deterioration of the dairy market which persists against the background of the current economic crisis.
in writing. − the eu budget for 2010 respects previous commitments made at european level in the context of the economic recovery plan. even though it has been quite difficult to find the resources needed both to combat the problems generated by the crisis and to continue the development projects that the european union has, i believe that the budget covers both situations. the commitments made at the end of 2008 by the president of the european commission were thus kept and innovative measures were created, such as the erasmus preparatory action for young entrepreneurs. with this budget, romania can continue to benefit from financial support from the structural and cohesion funds. in addition, good prospects are being created for the eastern european union's border issues and for the black sea basin, as resources have been allocated for the preparatory action for the ecological monitoring of the black sea basin, as well as a common european framework programme for the development of this region. moreover, we have taken into account that, although the period is difficult, attention is paid to tourism as a source of development, as evidenced by the budget allocation for sustainable and social tourism.
in writing. − i welcome the outcome of this vote on the 2010 budget. it will ensure funds are directed to various important projects and will provide much needed support, especially in the light of the economic difficulties still facing the european union. of particular importance is the €300 million which will be allocated to the dairy sector following the recent crisis. the council finally agreed to the european parliament's request for this amount, having previously argued for €280 million. there is also significant funding being allocated to the second stage of the economic recovery plan - €2.4 billion - which includes vital support for energy (including renewable energy) projects and infrastructure, as well as €420 million to provide broadband access in rural areas. the budget will therefore allow significant developments in the areas of energy, infrastructure, and technology, as well as providing crucial assistance in the current economic climate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 as amended by the council (all sections) and of the proposed amendments to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010. the eu budget for 2010 provides significant amounts for commitments under the european economic recovery plan such as energy networks (eur 1175 million), the european offshore wind energy network (eur 208 million) and carbon capture and geological storage (eur 523.2 million). the european parliament also succeeded in supplementing the amounts allocated to transport security, the sesar joint undertaking, activities supporting european transport policy and passenger rights, the intelligent energy europe programme, part of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the clean sky joint undertaking. the agricultural budget also includes an increase of €14 billion to promote rural development and €300 million to support milk producers, who are being hit hard by the economic and financial crisis. the economic and financial crisis has made job losses the main concern of european citizens today. i believe that in 2010 special attention should be paid to programmes to train young entrepreneurs and support them in setting up their own business.
i just wanted to let you know that mr. schultz has arrived in the courtroom and we'd be happy if he could answer the question that was asked in his absence by our colleague at the beginning. (applause) thank you very much.
i too want to say that i am shocked by the way the law we are discussing looks; both the sexual condition and the failure to transmit information about a person's sexual condition being penalized, is an obvious thing, which in europe we cannot accept. i would also like to stress that this discussion is taking place in the context of a second revision of the cotonou agreement, to which uganda is a party, and which very clearly states the need to respect human rights. i voted this week, on monday, in the deve committee, on a report by mrs jolie on this subject of the cotonou agreement. i think that today's discussion, even though it could have been held earlier last month, puts us in this context where obviously we can only deny what is happening in uganda.
i agree with what mr posselt said earlier. i also call on the azerbaijani government to respect the right of every citizen to free speech and to immediately drop the charges against the two young men, charges based on fabricated evidence, as ms. lunacek said earlier. it is urgent, i think, that this happens, because the situation of press freedom in this country has deteriorated seriously, as the latest reports from the council of europe and the osce show. i think it is also urgent that the azerbaijani government does this, because it has to respect the commitments under both the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. i would like to conclude by saying that i too was shocked by the way mrs haidar was treated today, especially since the suffering she is experiencing could be overcome by the good cooperation of the moroccan and spanish authorities. i don't think our resolution would have done any harm, but would have done a great deal of good.
