this year, as we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the euro, on 1 january 2009 slovakia became the 16th member of the euro area. my country has given up part of its identity, but we did so with pride. as we valued our own currency, we started using the euro, which is quickly becoming a currency of the majority of the slovak population. we adopted the euro only after five years of eu membership, and as prime minister fico said on new year's eve, we could see the euro as a lucky charm that brings stability and potential for even more rapid development of slovakia in the current economic crisis. i would like to highlight all those who contributed to its adoption in the slovak republic and to commend the positive attitude of slovak citizens towards the new currency. i wish us all, the slovaks, good luck with the euro as a symbol of an integrated prosperous europe.
in writing. european consumers are often exposed to unfair commercial practices and misleading and deceptive advertising. the risk of fraud is particularly high for a group of vulnerable consumers, including children and pensioners. i welcome the commission's efforts to help member states transpose the directive, which contributes to increasing consumer as well as trader confidence in cross-border transactions. it means greater legal certainty for consumers, while protecting smes from aggressive unfair trading practices. this directive will be of key importance for the future development of eu consumer rights and for the full development of the potential of the internal market. as there are still uncertainties in the transposition of this directive, i welcome the report by mrs weiler, which points to problems in transposition into national legislation. to succeed, judicial authorities need to step up crossborder cooperation on fraudulent database services. i attach great importance to information campaigns to raise consumers' awareness of their rights, as they are a key factor in providing them with greater protection. only a well-informed consumer can discern misleading advertising and avoid the disappointment it may cause. i believe that through the 'blacklists' we will expose unfair commercial practices and ban all misleading advertising altogether.
in writing. the adoption of european legislation starts the transposition process of the application of the directive in the individual member states. the european parliament closely monitors the transposition of each directive, as exemplified by the report by colleague teresa riera madurell, which examines the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the committee on women's rights and gender equality strongly points out that discrimination on grounds of gender persists in many social and political aspects. the slow and poor implementation of directive 2002/73/ec is jeopardising the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the possibility of fully exploiting the eu's social and economic potential. i call on the commission and the member states to introduce clear, detailed and measurable indicators of equal treatment and standards for assessing the relationship between women and men. i believe that the gender institute, which is launching its activities, will make a significant contribution with its gender equality agenda. i am convinced that we will achieve successful transposition of this directive by sharing best practice and taking positive action in areas where disadvantages have been identified.
in writing. on 1 january 2009, the euro became the official currency of slovakia. from that date, the double-triple cross from the slovak flag was also carried on the one- and two-euro coins and circulated throughout the euro area. this day is a historic moment for slovakia and fills us slovaks with pride, because we are the first country of the former socialist bloc to introduce the euro in the symbolic year of the tenth anniversary of the euro area. i appreciate that the current slovak government has committed itself to the commitment of mikuláš dzurinda, whose government approved the plan for the replacement of the koruna with the european currency in the autumn of 2004 and set the target date of the beginning of 2009. it is appropriate, also on the ep's soil, to thank the slovak citizens who, as the main actors of the demanding but necessary 'juriden' reforms, have endured and contributed to making slovakia a successful european country. since 1 january 2009, the euro has linked slovaks to the union every day. farewell to the crown, welcome to the euro.
i voted for the report on the common agricultural policy and global food security because it deals with the problems which i have consistently advocated as a priority in the european parliament. in particular, firstly, the reduction of production costs and thus the increase of global competitiveness. secondly, reducing the volatility of food markets, in particular by increasing stocks. third, to stop the degradation of the importance of agriculture in society by raising public awareness of its unique and irreplaceable function. fourthly, to stop the cap acting haphazardly by applying the systematic organisation of the cap in a long-term orientation. and fifthly, to stop the degradation of agriculture in the new member states by the discriminatory principles of the common agricultural policy and to increase substantially the exploitation of the underdeveloped agricultural potential in these new member states.
in writing. the european authorities must be open to dialogue and cooperation with citizens and civil society organisations. everyone can contribute to the common good. however, special interest groups - lobbies that do not represent the common good - should not be allowed to infiltrate the legislative process through dialogue with civil society. access to dialogue must be equitable. i would like to emphasize the importance of dialogue, particularly with associations which enable the poorest individuals and families to speak for themselves. the fight against extreme poverty and social inequality will not be successful in the long term without a permanent dialogue with the families and individuals who experience extreme poverty on a daily basis. it's a difficult but necessary dialogue. european, national, regional and local authorities cannot give in too easily when it comes to working towards an inclusive society and a europe for all. as a good practice, the eesc pays tribute to the international atd fourth world movement, which has been organising the european sessions of the fourth world popular universities since 1989, thus enabling structured dialogue between representatives of the authorities and people who experience extreme poverty themselves.
mr. president, colleagues, distinguished officer. first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague coelho for his excellent work. i would like to comment on just one aspect of the report. recent experience shows that trafficking in human beings, including trafficking in children, has reached alarming levels within and outside the eu countries. i therefore regard it as a positive step forward that in future children will be able to cross the external borders of the union with their own passport. this can provide greater security for trafficking in children, but it must also be seen that the child can travel with anyone with his own document. i regret that the proposal for a regulation on the inclusion of the names of the persons responsible for minors in the passport of minors was not included in the agreed text. it is true that article 1 of the proposal requires the commission to draw up a report on the requirements for children travelling alone or accompanied across the external borders of the member states and, if necessary, to make proposals on the protection of children crossing the external borders. this is an opportunity for the future, and i therefore ask the commission to work with all organisations with an interest in this matter, such as the osce, the oecd, unicef, unhcr, iom and, last but not least, europol, to assess developments and take the necessary steps to protect children more effectively, as experience shows that more and more children are victims of trafficking.
the protection of children from abduction and trafficking requires the introduction of child passports. the one person, one passport principle means that every child travelling outside the schengen area will be issued with a passport. the new identification method will make border controls easier. the single european hotline for missing, abducted and sexually exploited children, biometric passports and the upcoming launch of a europe-wide child abduction reporting system will become these tools for protecting children from abduction. attention should be paid to a high level of trust in the process of obtaining and using biometric data. i support the rapporteur's view that there is a need to analyse the possible shortcomings of fingerprint identification systems in the member states of the european union. consequently, the establishment of a common european comparison system should be considered.
with the pharmaceutical package, we're probably going to have a lot of people talking about subsidiarity in health care. but the situation on the pharmaceutical market itself suggests that europe's competitiveness in the development and research of new medicines, as well as their distribution and marketing, requires closer or improved cooperation between the individual member states in this area. in order to participate more effectively in treatment, patients should be better informed about the medicine itself and, of course, about its side effects. due to the limited resources for research and development of medicines in europe, the european pharmaceutical industry is not able to compete with america, japan or canada. this is precisely why the prices of medicines on european markets have risen disproportionately. we have repeatedly discussed in the european parliament the lack of availability of certain medicines, for example for the treatment of oncological diseases or so-called rare diseases. we also put the patient in a difficult life situation in the position of a beggar who has to find sponsors to secure his treatment. the high cost of many drugs is forcing the health ministry to look for a solution in cheaper alternatives, such as generics. unfortunately, these are often counterfeit and contain no medicinal substance other than sugar and a pill mixture. the above-mentioned facts show us the importance of exchanging views, discussing and then adopting the whole pharmaceutical package, which ensures that patients receive treatment with quality and affordable medicines. in this context, i look forward to working effectively with the appointed rapporteurs on the various parts of the package in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. and i agree with the commissioner that it is the drugs that are sold on the internet that are the biggest threat to the safety of the pharmaceutical policy.
i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that our brotherly czech republic has, from the very beginning of its presidency, dispelled doubts about the ability of the new member state to lead and manage the affairs of the european union. the czech presidency has shown that it can react and act in critical situations such as the war in gaza and the cut-off of gas supplies from russia to the eu. as the representative of slovakia, which takes almost 97% of its gas from russia and is in the most critical situation with bulgaria, i would like to appreciate the personal involvement of prime minister mirko topolánek in the negotiations with the russian and ukrainian sides. mr. prime minister, slovakia is still short of gas, so it needs your active help to continue. europe needs a common energy policy, it needs to improve its bargaining position in the energy field. france began its presidency with the russian-georgian conflict, the czech presidency has to deal with the trade-political dispute between russia and ukraine. i believe the time has come to learn from these events. it is important to identify areas where the eu is dependent on russia and also areas where russia is dependent on the eu. relations with russia are important, but it is unacceptable for russia to use gas as a political weapon. the issue of diversification of energy resources and the construction of the nabuco pipeline needs to be addressed urgently. mr. prime minister, slovakia is in an emergency situation and sees you as an ally in the strategic decision on jaslovské bohunicia. i also ask for your help, mr barroso, president of the european commission. i personally think that there are still great reservations in the fulfilment of the freedom of movement of persons, which is why i welcome the motto of the czech presidency, europe without barriers. i wish the czech presidency success in completing its 3e programme and bringing the eu closer to achieving the lisbon objectives.
mr prime minister, as a former compatriot, i am pleased to welcome you to the european parliament and wish you every success in fulfilling the commitments you have presented to us. your priorities are certainly the current problems of the european union, but i trust that in the economic part you will not forget the social aspects, which are so important for the vast majority of eu citizens. when i saw you at the euro adoption celebrations in slovakia, i was pleased to see that the eu had a supporter of closer integration of the union's countries in the new president of the council. but i would be even more pleased, as would the majority of this house, if you were to contribute to the ratification of the treaty of lisbon in the czech republic. without it, the priorities you have set for yourself will be difficult to meet. if we want the eu to be, as you have mentioned, not just a payer but also a player in the world, we have to take this step. mr prime minister, as has been said many times, the european elections will be an important moment during your presidency. participation in them will be important for the next 5 years of eu policy, and here the council's tangible support can play a big role. when slovakia is eliminated from the world championship in hockey and the czech republic qualifies for the next round...
mr cataniu's own-initiative report has given rise to a considerable exchange of views between the political groups and the members. the european union is currently facing very serious problems, such as the financial crisis, the energy crisis caused by the ukrainian-russian conflict. it is a time when we should act in unity and avoid any actions that could jeopardize our unity. the consequences of the crisis will certainly affect every citizen of the european union, including the slovak, the polish, the hungarian and the german. i consider that the search for problems between member states, which comes up again and again in our negotiations, ignores the seriousness of the current situation threatening the unity of the union. we should focus more on finding solutions and the validity of the lisbon treaty, on strengthening the competitiveness of the european union. i have repeatedly spoken here in the european parliament about the idea that autonomy within our common space is unjustified. the central idea of the unification of the eu countries must not be overlooked, or at least ignored or rejected. we should remember schuman's statement that a thinking european cannot rejoice at the misfortune of his neighbour, that we are all bound by a common destiny, for better or for worse.
i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union between 2004 and 2008. i have committed my support to not accepting the wording originally proposed in article 49 on the promotion of territorial and regional autonomy. i take it as a clear rejection of the attempts of provocateurs and conspirators to speculate in any way with the status quo. the european parliament therefore rejects any attempt to create a regional or territorial autonomy. it is a very valuable conclusion of today's plenary session of the european parliament, to which i congratulate all of us.
the catania report is a report that deals with many human rights issues. i agree with some of the speakers and also express my fundamental disagreement and disapproval with this report on one key point, as it has not passed key amendments that would have corrected this otherwise flawed report. the text contains references to sexual health and sexual rights, 'so-called' which, according to the definition of the world health organisation, include an explicit right to abortion, and we cannot invoke this in the community law of the european union and impose it on the member states. as a doctor, i am a defender of human life and human dignity from conception, and that is why i did not support such a controversial text, which, moreover, does not respect the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the problem with the report is that it deals with a large number of sensitive issues. although the report makes a number of recommendations in various areas, including minority rights, the rapporteur has again included the issue of reproductive health in the report. the amendments on reproductive health which the ep voted for deny the right to life and violate the principle of subsidiarity. respect for every unborn child and the need to protect human life from conception are fundamental issues for me. i do not agree that decisions are taken at european level where member states have different approaches based on their christian traditions. i do not agree that the eu should force slovakia, poland, ireland and other member states to agree to abortion or euthanasia that is not allowed under their national legislation. at european level, we always talk about the right of a mother to decide on the life or death of her child, and we forget about the right of the unborn child to life. for these reasons, i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2004-2008.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted its catania report on the practice of fundamental rights. as we have just celebrated the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, this report asks us what we mean by fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was the result of a consensus reached after more than a year of negotiations between different pressure groups and lobbies, representatives of civil society and national governments, etc. this exercise, to which we, the representatives of the eastern countries, were not invited, is interesting in more than one way. the charter, as the catania report points out, is a non-legally binding text until the treaty of lisbon is ratified by all the member states. yet the fundamental rights agency, based in vienna, austria, relies entirely on this political text to justify its positions. it is therefore interesting to see how the fundamental rights of the charter are considered, by analysing the subjects dealt with by the fundamental rights agency. this exercise is all the more interesting in the case of the fralex network of experts recruited in the summer of 2008, mainly from the dutch network human european consultancy.
in writing. − the eu has, on the basis of the experience of the member states, begun to recognise a genuine 'right of access to documents' and 'right to information', based on the principles of democracy, transparency, public access and openness. the european parliament believes that access to information concerning the eu institutions is problematic for the ordinary citizen because of the lack of an effective interinstitutional policy of transparency and citizen-oriented communication. in order to increase transparency, the eu institutions should respect the principle of multilingualism. in 2008, i presented a written declaration of the european parliament on this issue. the eu uses all the languages of the member states as working languages, not just one or some languages of its choice that a substantial proportion of its citizens may not understand. translation of legislative, political and administrative documents enables the eu to properly fulfil its legal obligations, while the multilingualism system contributes to improving the union's transparency, legitimacy and effectiveness. this is in order to prepare well for the european parliament elections to be held in june 2009. i, the eu hereby ask the eu institutions to ensure that the 2009 eu budget allocates the necessary funds to fill the missing posts for linguistic officials in the eu institutions; the ep calls on the eu institutions to translate without delay into all the eu's official languages all legislative, political and administrative documents for this election period, so that citizens can follow the political work of all the institutions. we can really do something about greater transparency for citizens in this way.
mr president, yesterday we had a joint meeting of the delegations for relations with israel and with the plc, and one can imagine the intensity, emotion, accusations – and the suggested solutions – after 18 days of war in gaza and around 1 000 deaths. the fact is that israel, after eight years of waiting and absorbing around 8 000 missiles that terrorised one million citizens along the gaza borders, finally ran out of patience. they began securing safety for their citizens, as is their full right and obligation. hamas is a terrorist organisation and is the clear culprit and a burden for the palestinian people in gaza. the solution lies in an invigorated quartet and particularly in redoubling the joint effort between the new us administration and a stronger and more integrated eu. i welcome the czech presidency, its priorities and its immediate and active involvement in the region.
as a member of parliament representing the interests of the citizens of the slovak republic, i would like to draw the attention of the european union to the ukrainian-russian gas supply conflict, which is a conflict of interests between two parties, not just two parties accusing each other, but also a third party whose citizens are becoming victims, as russian gas supplies through ukraine are once again out of sight. slovakia has been without gas for eight days and with the current emergency restrictions on industry and the crisis regime of enterprises, we can supply the territory for only 11 days. slovakia's gas is stuck somewhere between the two warring parties. in short, two sides of two truths, but no gas. let me inform you that today at 11.45 am, the prime minister of ukraine, mrs. tymoshenko, rejected the request of slovakia to restore gas supplies, with the reason: "ukraine does not have enough gas, we do not have our own reserves, you will not have either". i also emphasize that due to the dependence on russian gas, the impossibility of restarting the v1 nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia, the energy security of the slovak republic is increasingly threatened. commissioner, thank you for your suggestions and your efforts to find a solution. i have one measure you can take, and that is to stop the contribution to ukraine as an irresponsible partner.
gazprom and naftagas are playing with the confidence of european consumers. in slovakia, hundreds of businesses have had to shut down their production, and in bulgaria, people are freezing in their apartments. european citizens must not pay the price for trade-political games. it is difficult to assess which side bears more blame, but it is clear that slovakia and bulgaria are in urgent need of help. they need an immediate solution, an immediate resumption of gas supplies, they need to know what will happen to the nuclear power plants. i believe that despite all this, we will not stop at the countries of the former soviet bloc, including ukraine, which want to break free from russia's influence. the citizens of ukraine cannot suffer because their politicians failed.
mr. president, it is difficult to move from the deadlock in eu-belarus relations. recent external pressures, the weakening of the russo-belarusian friendship, the shock of the russo-georgian conflict and, not least, the global economic crisis, have contributed to this. the country led by lukashenko wants something from europe first: the release of political prisoners, the registration of a movement and the dialogue with independent journalists indicate that lukashenko wants to open up to europe in his own way. beyond the apparent steps, minsk needs to do more than it has done before to achieve a real rapprochement. it is appropriate that the eu exploits these opportunities, albeit limited. the union can for the first time have a real influence on the political situation in belarus and therefore it does not matter what policy brussels pursues. the critical attitude and the system of conditions must be maintained. we have to be very careful because it's hard to imagine that lukashenko and his system could change radically. the concrete actions taken and planned by the eu are important. our job is to connect and support ngos and opposition to change. we must also force reforms in the legislative field, i am thinking here of the criminal code, the press law and the electoral law. in order to preserve the quality of the union's policy towards belarus and the process of democratisation, the european parliament should continue to scrutinise the council and the commission. the countries of the region, including ukraine, have proved that without clear conditions and compliance with them, there is no democratic development, it is only the construction of an illusion of democracy. the motion for a resolution is critical and constructive, and i therefore support it unequivocally.
although belarus has made positive progress, we need to communicate very intensively with the representatives of the belarusian opposition, with our friend alexander milinkievich. europe should support economic reforms in belarus. however, the support must be subject to specific conditions and requirements. among them must be the demand for greater freedom of the media. the media must be able to operate legally in the country and publish their material here. greater freedom for political parties and ngos to operate is key to democracy. it is clear from today's debate that we all want a democratic belarus, but without lukashenko, to return to europe. the eu has a great chance, by engaging in the promotion of democratic values, to win belarus and to rescue it from the arms of russia as well.
i support the establishment of 11 july as the day of remembrance of the genocide in srebrenica, in which the international community failed to intervene in the conflict and protect the civilian population. i consider it the best way to pay tribute to the victims of the massacre. in the few days of bloodshed after the fall of srebrenica, over 8,000 men and boys were killed. thousands of women, children, and old people were deported, and many women were raped. we must never forget the victims of the brutal acts committed during the war in the former yugoslavia. i believe that all the countries of the western balkans will support the recognition of this day. we must send a clear message to future generations that they will never allow another srebrenica. i hope that further efforts will be made to bring the remaining fugitives to justice, so that many families can have final assurance about the fate of their fathers, sons, husbands or brothers.
the motto of the czech presidency, 'a europe without barriers', should not be just a slogan, but a clear response to the challenges of the present. the presidency should address the concerns of european citizens who are prevented by existing barriers from exercising their rights within the eu. the european union is home to 50 million europeans with various disabilities, who encounter various difficulties in their daily lives. many of them have come to me with a request for mutual recognition of id cards for severely disabled people. disabled citizens cannot use these cards in all eu member states, making it difficult for them to park their personal motor vehicle in designated car parks, for example. i have put the question to the council and to the commission and i hope that the measures to harmonise the cards will be adopted as soon as possible. a 'europe without barriers' must mean the removal of all barriers, including physical, social and architectural ones, and the prevention of any discrimination against disabled people.
the current financial crisis is translating into an economic crisis. subsequently, due to the lack of available credit, there is a threat of an energy and food crisis. to maintain at least current levels of energy production, some us$26 trillion will be needed globally by 2030 to invest in the reconstruction and opening of new oil and gas deposits, as well as in the production and distribution of all types of energy. at the same time, oil, gas and electricity flows will need to be integrated to create an efficient and highly diversified system. it must help to bridge the consequences of local political encounters, but also the consequences of any natural events, and enable a functioning energy supply in a pan-european context. the slovak republic has had the opportunity to experience firsthand the complexity of the situation in recent weeks, when, as a result of the conflict between ukraine and russia, not a single cubic meter of gas reached slovakia for several days. the experience of slovakia, as well as other european countries, has shown that the priorities of the european union aimed at connecting and integrating the isolated energy markets in europe need to be urgently supported. however, i cannot excuse myself for the remark that the forced and premature shutdown of the two units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant is shown to be wrong and unwise in the current situation. these met all the criteria for safe operation. the abolition of these was politically enforced by the european commission in the accession treaty as a tax for slovakia's accession to the european union. the commission notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the electricity producers in slovakia was compatible with the internal market.
ladies and gentlemen, the recent gas crisis has shown us the importance of a common eu energy policy. slovakia has also seen what it means to be 100% dependent on russian gas. hundreds of companies had to shut down production and pay employees only 60% of their wages. i appreciate that solidarity plays a big role in relations between eu member states. if we hadn't gotten an emergency gas transfer from germany through the czech republic to slovakia, households would have been at risk, too. i believe that the need to ensure a continuous supply of energy is a fundamental societal priority. shared consumption, predominantly from non-renewable energy sources, is beginning to outgrow the environmentally acceptable threshold. we need to build safe nuclear power plants while encouraging rural communities, through the structural funds, to strategically orient themselves towards the energy/water/biotechnology nexus, thereby strengthening the diversification of the energy base.
the reporter. − let me begin by thanking all my colleagues for their cooperation in my own-initiative report. the vote in the committee on women's rights was the result of a wide-ranging, repeated discussion and warmth. the women and men who are engaged today in creating networks of solidarity between generations deserve recognition. their commitment is an important contribution to national and european wealth and to the common good. unfortunately, this value is not integrated into national statistics and accounts. this is why men and women are exposed to hidden forms of discrimination. women and men have the right to choose freely an activity that suits them and in which they feel satisfied. it is the duty of society to ensure this free choice and not to discriminate against an activity simply because it does not fit into the normal patterns of the formal labour market. this is a brief summary of my owninitiative report on gender non-discrimination and intergenerational solidarity. the theme of this report is at the heart of the debate on the future of europe and employment in its member states. it is a technical report, but it also has a human dimension. we can all find ourselves in it, because each of us lives in a network of wider or narrower family and social relationships in which we are personally involved. the idea of solidarity between generations being limited to childcare is a misinterpretation. solidarity between generations is also a responsibility towards our parents, elders and dependants. solidarity between generations is also about educating citizens to respect life, human dignity and the environment. it's primarily a social justice issue. it is the foundation for the future of europe and the common good of its citizens. human resources managers agree that human skills are comparable to university degrees. it is therefore necessary to evaluate the creation of this wealth in an explicit and positive way. the european union must establish a policy framework to achieve this objective. women are the first to contribute to solidarity between generations and thus to the creation of social relationships. therefore, this report focuses on them. economists use mathematical models to emphasize the value of domestic work. earlier research by economists and demographers has suggested that women's contribution to gross domestic product could be even higher if their unpaid work was recognized and rewarded. to close our eyes to this reality is to dwell on the illusions of the past. we must look ahead to create conditions for all women and men who are engaged in intergenerational solidarity, regardless of their social status. the union must act if it is serious about non-discrimination and equal opportunities. my political group, the ppe-de, is proud to support a policy of non-discrimination that promotes the common good, that respects the specificities and complementarities of men and women. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to point out that this report is the result of extensive consultations with a number of women's ngos. in my report i also took account of the views of the three intergroups of our parliament: the atd quart monde, the intergroup on child and family protection and the intergroup on carers. this report was voted unanimously by the committee on women's rights. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to invite you to continue this cooperation and to vote tomorrow on the motion for a resolution tabled by the femm committee.
in writing. for centuries, nursing was the domain of women. exemplary mothers who raised their children in their youth now make up the vast majority of the older population, whose retirement is negatively affected by child care and housework. for this socially beneficial work during their working lives, many of them do not receive an adequate pension, which puts them at greater risk of poverty. for this reason too, young women choose to postpone motherhood and to give preference to a professional career. in many of my speeches in the ep, i have consistently stressed that mothers and fathers who freely choose to raise a child or care for an elderly or dependent family member must not be discriminated against. i know many families who have a disabled member and who carry out this demanding work with great determination despite the obstacles they constantly have to overcome. in my speech, i would like to welcome the proposals of the rapporteur, mrs anna záborska, who recommends that the traditional paid official activity be accompanied by many forms of non-paid work carried out in families in the context of solidarity between generations. this work is reflected in gdp when the family employs someone. this does not apply if one of the parents is doing this work. i hope that the report will inspire member states to take such action to improve family policy within the eu.
in writing. strengthening innovation and developing the knowledge economy are key to ensuring high quality public services. the us public sector spends $50 billion a year on research and development procurement, twice as much as the eu, so member states must meet their commitment to invest 3% of gdp in research and development. public procurement is a strategic tool to achieve this objective. today, there are many european research programmes and public administrations do not yet use their results in public procurement. eu practice is based on the principle of exclusive development, which means that each company retains ownership of the new innovations it creates. although pre-commercial procurement is a simplification, the whole process is very demanding. the participation of universities and research institutes can be of great help to public administrations. member states should draw on the expertise of the european innovation agencies involved in research and development. i hope that, also on the basis of the recommendations in the malcolm harbour report, the commission will produce a comprehensive, easy-to-understand guide that would help smes in particular and equally responsible public procurement organisations in their implementation. only by close cooperation between eu member states in the field of public procurement will we foster innovation and ensure sustainable, high-quality public services.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, europol’s organised crime report of 2006 stated that the advantages the internet offers in terms of information and communication technology are extremely beneficial to organised crime. there is no doubt, in this regard, that children are the most vulnerable group. according to experts, around 90% of 12- to 17 year-olds chat on the internet. besides classmates and games they use ‘unknown user’ networks via chat rooms on websites, which are perfect contact points for paedophiles using false identities to lure potential victims. according to internet watch foundation, which processed more than 30 000 reports in 2006, 91% of victims were under 12 years old. eighty per cent were female, and child abuse domains totalled more than 3 000. moreover, 55% of all child abuse domains were hosted in the united states, 28% in russia and only 8% in europe. it would be appropriate to put cooperation in the field of disabling websites abusing children on the agenda of an eu-us meeting. we are witnessing a well-organised international network of paedophiles and organised crimes connected with the sex industry, as stated by mrs angelilli. on the other side the international cooperation of law enforcement authorities is limited. it is almost incredible that eight ratifications are still missing in the case of the optional protocol to the convention on the rights of the child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography; four in the case of the palermo protocol, which is the basic document for international cooperation in combating trafficking in human beings. slightly less than half of the member states have still not ratified the council of europe convention on cybercrime. in this field there is a lot to do. therefore it is time to send a strong and clear message to the council to revise the council framework decision combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
i agree with the european parliament's recommendation to the council. the protection of children should always be a priority in all countries of the european union, because children are in fact the most vulnerable group in society. in this case, the unification of legislation would make a significant contribution to the prevention of this type of crime and would help to punish the perpetrators more effectively in all countries of the union. consequently, uniform legislation can eliminate child sex tourism, which persists in the european union due to different legal regulation. the protection of children is also necessary in view of children's access to the internet, where children are exposed to any content and at the same time to the possibility of exploitation by paedophiles and by grooming. the sexual abuse of children and the exploitation of children for child pornography are both contrary to the un universal code of child rights and also contrary to fundamental human rights.
the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs, asked for an opinion. − legislation on sanctions against employers employing illegal migrants from third countries is expected to be a tool to reduce the so-called pool factor of illegal migration. on the other hand, however, we must also see the potential positive effect of improving the conditions of competition and, i hope, also of contributing to the fight against trafficking in human beings. there is an opinion that this legislation does not bring added value. given that such a legislative instrument does not yet exist at european community level, the added value is high for some member states, while for others where legislation in the field exists, the added value may not be apparent. in the negotiations with the commission and the council on possible compromises, the discussion focused on certain problem areas. firstly, the problem of the main contractor's liability for the performance of the legally prescribed obligations for subcontractors, where the proposal limits liability to the actions of direct subcontractors. secondly, how to ensure that there are effective procedures for enforcing the payment of the illegal migrant's compensation, where we followed the principle of non-discrimination, but we looked for ways to make sure that the illegal migrant had access to help and mechanisms to receive his or her salary even after returning to his or her country. thirdly, the possible deferral of the execution of the return decision until the due compensation is received. in that regard, it must be stated that the delay in the enforcement of the decision would have seriously undermined or even negated the intention of the proposed legislation. finally, the problem of inspections is left to the member states, with the awareness that labour inspection plays a really crucial role in the effectiveness of legislation. there are certainly different views on how to deal with these and other problems in this proposal. some of them will be decided by implementation. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr favre, the commission and the french presidency for the successful search for compromise.
the reporter. - thank you very much, mr. chairman, thank you to mr. zaleski. of course, in this context, we take note of other models.
mr president, i would like to congratulate gyula hegyi on his dossier and thorough research. at this time of global climate change and environmental troubles, it is clear that we need to address the issue of the european wilderness. i believe that it is important that we coordinate a strategy for the protection and restoration of our precious wild lands. we have a responsibility to nature to use land properly. in my own country, slovakia, an increase in the bark beetle population forced the national park services in the high tatra region to use pesticides to combat the corrosive nature of the insect. however, these pesticides contain the chemical cypermethrin, which often destroys healthy vegetation and poses serious health risks for human and animals in the region. just as we must find a better solution to this dramatic insect population explosion in slovakia, it is necessary across europe to find ways to effectively protect our natural and wild lands. i urge the european parliament to act responsibly and quickly in order to protect the remaining wilderness.
in practice, the procedure under article 45 (2) has shown to be seriously flawed. in addition to the fact that there can be no debate on the subject in plenary, apart from the rapporteur in the debate, it also excludes the rapporteur from the possibility of discussing individual amendments which are problematic in the report. i did not vote for the green group's amendment because the new version expresses reservations on two points against the czech presidency's proposal. since it is not the council's official position, such recommendations are premature and often counterproductive. in order to reconcile professional and family life, a professional career must be equated with a non-profit-making activity carried out in the framework of solidarity between generations. i am convinced that the report provides new impetus to tackle the multiple discrimination faced by women and men who freely choose to care for their loved ones. i would like to highlight the work of rapporteur anna zaborska, but i regret that due to procedural procedures we have not voted on her draft report.
i would also like to express my full support for ms záborska's own-initiative report, which addresses and underlines the need for intergenerational solidarity between family members. it is not just about caring for the younger generation, for the new people who are born into the family, but we often have to deal with the problems of caring for the elderly within the same family. i think that the czech presidency has very rightly captured this urgency of the current demographic situation it is also economically advantageous and i reject the position of the greens who have quite wrongly proposed an amendment which devalues this good intention. i fully support the report by mrs zaborska. at the time of the final report vote, my voting machine was not working. i was for the line that mrs. zaborska was promoting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of cooperation between the european community and russia in the scientific and technical field, as it is necessary to build strong, stable and serious neighbourly relations with the russian federation. i see science and technology cooperation as an excellent means of building such relationships. the european community, like russia, has significant scientific achievements that can be mutually beneficial. the community can certainly benefit from this cooperation and implement and improve its own scientific and technological projects. i stress that for serious neighbourly relations, the will and reliability of the other side are also necessary. the last few days have been a display of russia's gross lack of seriousness as a trading partner. the actions of the russian federation have caused a gas crisis in many countries of the european community, which has directly threatened the economies of the member states and has shown the negative effects of energy dependence on russia. i hope that in the name of good cooperation in the scientific and technical field, such matters will not be repeated in the future.
in writing. − the initiative report talks about improving the current situation in the valuation of women's work in intergenerational solidarity - care for children, the elderly and dependants in the family. the report i presented was truly revolutionary, because it was the first time that a parliamentary initiative had called for the recognition of the 'invisible' work of women in the national financial system and in gross domestic product. the report was unanimously adopted by the committee on women's rights. nor did the green group vote against. today, these same colleagues have tabled an alternative resolution without having proposed any consultation beforehand. the alternative resolution was voted for by the whole left-wing spectrum of the ep. i draw two conclusions from this. the first left has shown that it does not respect the work of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, whose importance it declares outwardly. secondly, the left has questioned the issue of equality and non-discrimination between women and men, thus raising the suspicion that this issue is only a media decoration. i voted against the resolution. it was a certain step in the wrong direction. even though it contains paragraphs from my original report, it shows that the left does not respect the work of millions of women across the eu. the authors of the resolution have shown that they remain locked into old ideologies that have lost their validity in the present day. moreover, the resolution is being questioned by the czech presidency in an unprecedented way, just for the fact that it was proposed to discuss the barcelona objectives.
in writing. − the protection of children and young people from sexual abuse is an important issue and a problem of our time. i've always been in favor of parental rights in the upbringing of their children, but in this case, the state must also protect children and adolescents. this protection does not lie solely on the internet. it also applies to advertising in the media, which should be dignified, moral, and not attack the right of young people to innocence. parents have a special role in protecting their children from sexual abuse. the universal declaration of human rights, in its article 26.3, clearly states that parents have the primary right to choose the type of education for their children. parental education is also about educating children to use media responsibly. however, parents cannot consistently fulfill their parenting mission if they do not have enough time to devote to their families and their children. the state should give families this free time. the internet will never replace the time spent talking to parents and children. a video game can't replace a conversation with your grandmother. a joystick is no substitute for an hour spent with grandpa in the garage. the natural family is the child's sanctuary, and parents are the child's first protectors. that's why i started a project in slovakia, addressed primarily to parents: "do you know where your child is now?"
we deal with the problems of national minorities, but that means primarily the hungarian national minority, mr. tabajdi. yet, it is hungary that has been almost completely eradicated in recent decades. this is confirmed by the words of the former ombudsman for minorities in hungary, jenö kaltenbach. the number of slovaks living in hungary has fallen from over 300,000 to 18,000 in the past period. for the decimated slovak minority, hungarian is the only language used in national schools in hungary. slovak is taught four hours a week in these schools. in slovakia, there is no vendetta, and the hungarian minority living in slovakia is in a much better position. in hungarian minority schools, the sole language of instruction is hungarian. slovak is taught as an additional language for a few hours a week. all slovak communities in hungary have services in hungarian and are conducted exclusively by hungarian clergy. on the contrary, in slovakia, only hungarian clergy serve in hungarian communities. paradoxically, however, the european parliament does not deal with the problems of slovaks, germans, serbs and other minorities decimated in hungary. the marginal problems of the hungarian minority are discussed repeatedly, and the slovak parliament is currently dealing with them. he just today approved an amendment to the school law that guarantees the writing of geographical names in the textbooks of minority schools in hungarian or ukrainian. it is precisely hungarian mps and politicians who, under the pretext of solving national problems, constantly suggest autonomous solutions, including territorial autonomy. the last time the hungarian president did so was yesterday when he visited his romanian counterpart in budapest and was met with a resounding rejection. such attitudes must be exposed and rejected in the european parliament as well.
the protection of minorities is undoubtedly one of the most important values and in our country, in slovakia or in the slovak republic, minorities are guaranteed a really very high standard. if i talk about national minorities, this standard is also guaranteed in the form of you could say cultural and educational autonomy, because we also have a university for our largest national minority. however, i fundamentally refuse to open a discussion on territorial autonomy because i consider it a very serious political and legal reason, and also because i consider it a human drama. it would cause great human misery. similarly, opening the debate on territorial autonomy would fundamentally jeopardise the unity and the successful progress of the european union. in conclusion, commissioner, if you were talking about respect - yes, it is absolutely right that a majority society should have the greatest possible respect for its minorities, but i think that in a well-functioning society, minorities should have the same respect for this society.
thank you very much, mr. president. there are few policy areas within the european union where there is a double standard. the accession countries are subject to the copenhagen criteria for minority rights, as my colleagues have already said, but there is no such criterion in community law. if europe's richness lies in its cultural diversity and no one wants the culture and language of small nations to disappear, then national minorities need even more protection, including legal protection. the apparent protection of socialist internationalism has disappeared in the new member states, national feelings have been heightened and various forms of oppressive nationalism are often seen in the new member states, especially after the copenhagen criteria have been removed from the list of mandatory criteria. we often see the so-called minority intensifying its efforts to assimilate for its own sake, and this is unfortunately a political tool that populist parties often use to turn the majority against the minority. it is essential that internal legal norms be created to guarantee the status of minorities, following the best european practices, building on the various forms of self-government, which should not be exposed as some sort of insidious political crime, nor should it be rejected, but rather extended the principle of subsidiarity so that minorities can decide their own affairs. the open method of coordination - as long as there is no legal basis - could perhaps be of great help in this regard. i would like to ask the commissioner whether this option, this method, could not be applied to the solution of the legal status of minorities? i would like to end by thanking my colleague, mr tabajdi, for his work in this area.
yes, minorities must be respected and their rights legally guaranteed by the member countries of the european union. cultural and linguistic diversity must be preserved; it is the basis for the good functioning of the union. however, we will not allow political groups based on minority interests to promote autonomist interests under the guise of fighting for the rights of minorities, which often conflict with the principle of territorial integrity of states, in addition to, for example, feeling guilty about past decisions. territorial autonomy on a national basis, which is not based on homogeneity and which, on the contrary, often exploits the minority status of the majority nation in a given microregion or municipality, is a threat to peaceful life and coexistence in the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank mr florenz as rapporteur for this excellent and comprehensive report. it captures all the important areas of society's lives as we move towards dramatically accelerating climate change. it is high time that we also prepared the necessary measures within the european union. as a physician, i am particularly interested in changes that will affect health care, such as the emergence of diseases that are typical of tropical areas. this is something we should bear in mind when we support the pharmaceutical industry, when we plan hospitals and hospices, but also when we train healthcare staff and, above all, when we keep the public informed. since these diagnoses are rare in our area, a much more dramatic course can be expected. agriculture and the provision of food for the population will also be in dire straits. i firmly believe that this report, which is far more important than the other own-initiative reports, will provide a good basis for the next parliament, which will have to deal with the concrete impacts of climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, as the european union aspires to become a leader in the international fight against global warming, it must not only formulate climate protection objectives but also implement them through policy measures. mr florenza's cross-cutting report confirms that the fight against climate change must be based on a horizontal approach and taken into account in all legislation. water plays a central role in climate change. we must recognise that the consequences of climate change on water regimes can trigger a domino effect and affect different sectors of the economy. the growing global water problems require coordinated water management policies in the member states and the introduction of environmental principles into integrated river basin management. we need to launch programmes to create area-based rainwater storage in forest, agricultural and urban landscapes through legislative instruments, non-investment and investment measures that can substantially accumulate rainwater in the country. until now, rainwater was considered wastewater that needed to be disposed of as quickly as possible. the new water paradigm is based on the principle that rainwater is the key to life. i am delighted that it is being brought to us by an expert group of czech and slovak scientists. minister bursik, that is an interesting approach. i trust he'll have your support. a sustainable way of life is not possible without the contribution of the economy, science, the media, organised civil society and citizens. it's important not to capitulate to the complexity of the problem. we are challenged and we must act now, because our actions today determine our future. our purpose in life is this: we must no longer deprive future generations of the essence of life that god has given us. we will only win in global competition if we allow efficient, innovative and intelligent technologies to enter the market in a transparent way and without bureaucratic obstacles. we will only win if we give all progressive solutions a green light in europe.
in writing. - good afternoon, everybody. i fully support the report and thank you, mr florenz, for documenting in detail the future policy of the european union on climate change. it's terrible that global climate change is affecting and will affect our environment, and therefore our health and society. it is therefore our duty to continue on our path in line with policies that will help to slow down the effects of triggering a future disaster. since parliament's decision in april to set up an interim commission on climate change, negotiations to help integrate european responses into the global context have been successful. however, we must continually review our reservations in the light of the reduction targets, energy consumption and the role of agriculture. by working together, we can hopefully reduce carbon emissions and slow down the process of global warming in europe and around the world. as mr. florenz mentioned, there is no one way to combat climate change, but we know that the right thing to do is to start with increased efficiency and better resource management. global climate change is harmful to our environment, to our current way of life and to the opportunities of future generations. i have to do my best to slow this process down, if not stop it. thank you all.
kosovo is here as a fact that some have accepted, some have not. although most eu member states are in favour of or have recognised its independence, five member states have not let alone the un security council. if a resolution is to have an impact on the european union's foreign policy, it must be unifying. if we pretend that the common foreign policy is being pushed by the majority, either in the council or in the european parliament, it is counterproductive for the unity of the union. let us seek solutions that bring us together and not push through decisions that are, at least in their wording, complex or even confusing or inconsistent.
commissioner verheugen, the european commission must take concrete measures to help the automotive industry to recover. firstly, it is necessary to prevent distortions of the internal market. the safeguard measures announced by some states are not the answer to the current crisis. i call on the commission to come forward with measures on the european scrapping scheme as soon as possible. mr vondra, i expect the council to approve this scrappage scheme by the member states at the march european council, which will directly encourage consumers to buy a new car. i believe that if the eu wants to be the biggest exporter of cars and at the same time a global leader in the fight against climate change, it must help its automotive industry, which is the biggest private investor in research and development. by funding research and development, by supporting investment...
under article 20 of the treaty on european communities on diplomatic and consular protection, every citizen of the union has the right to protection by diplomatic or consular authorities in the territory of a third country on the same conditions as nationals of that member state. it is important to underline the need for the union to develop cooperation in consular services for these purposes. europeans are among the most mobile communities in the world, with around 9% of citizens travelling to countries where their home country is not represented. for example, slovakia, which i represent in the european parliament, has very little consular representation in the central and latin american region, where many of our citizens travel. i must point out that despite the obligations imposed on the consular service, most europeans are not aware of their rights and it is sad that even the staff of these offices are not aware of them. a better awareness of consular protection among citizens could be achieved if the single european passport also included a citation of article 20. the importance of consular protection in a third country has been demonstrated particularly during crisis situations such as the 2004 tsunami or the 2006 conflict in lebanon. given the diversity of consular regulations, citizens of the european union are thus confronted with as many systems as there are member states, and these systems may have different legal force and scope. recent events in mumbai indicate that we still have considerable reservations in the consular service. the establishment of joint european offices could ensure functional coherence while saving costs for the structures of the diplomatic and consular networks of the member states.
energy efficiency of buildings can directly lead to savings for european consumers. i see the solution in the widespread deployment of automated consumer smart metering systems and systems that provide an overview of immediate energy consumption, including households. what can the council do to implement this solution? what timetable do you think is realistic? could the council inspire the european institute of technology in budapest to get involved in the energy efficiency of buildings?
in writing. the storm klaus, which swept across south-west europe from 23 to 25 january, left a trail of devastation. winds during the storm reached up to 120 miles per hour. the storm claimed 18 lives in spain, france and germany. the death toll would have been even higher if the early warning system had not been in place. with a sense of belonging, we watched the terrible tragedy on our television in slovakia, when four children in the village of sant boi de llobregat lost their lives after the roof of a sports hall collapsed. i would like to extend my sincere condolences to all the families who have lost their family members. the solidarity fund is a useful instrument. it was established in the eu after the floods of august 2002. its assistance is intended for member states and acceding states which have been affected by a major natural disaster. these are disasters for which the estimated damage is higher than 0,6% of the gdp of the affected state. slovakia also received €5,667,578 from the fund following the storm in november 2004, which destroyed 2.5 million cubic metres of coniferous wood. many disasters, which are increasing in number in europe as a result of climate change, are forcing us to adopt rules that ensure that we can provide financial assistance very quickly and flexibly, immediately after a disaster, but also to implement preventive measures against various natural disasters.
in writing. - i consider the most important votes to be the vote on amendment no 3 and the final vote. i voted against both. the ep's amendment no 3 calls on eu states to recognise the independence of kosovo. i consider the whole process of independence to be hasty and ill-conceived. i am aware that the negotiations between kosovo and serbia, including those with international personalities and organisations, have been long and many have seen no chance of a solution and will continue. therefore, aktisari's plan was accepted by the majority of eu and us states. nevertheless, i think that any unilateral declaration of independence is only a source of further problems and possible conflicts. the time since kosovo's declaration of independence has only confirmed this. if we are to preserve peace in our region, no time spent on negotiations is long or useless.
in writing. − also, based on my experience gained during the delegation of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection's 16-21 march 2008 visit to china, i voted in favour of the corien wortmann-kool report on trade and economic relations with china. trade between the eu and china has increased dramatically since 2000, with the eu being china's largest trading partner and china the eu's second largest trading partner. china benefits greatly from wto membership, but european firms face major obstacles to entering the chinese market, notably patent infringement and an ambiguous system of standards. i welcome the intention to launch the 'gateway to china' programme specifically aimed at creating a training programme for managers in china to support the access of european smes to the chinese market by 2010. the report makes recommendations for improving europe's trade relations with china, which must be based on the principles of reciprocity, sustainable development, respect for ecological limits, contribution to global climate change objectives, fair competition and trade in line with our common values and wto rules. i welcomed the amendment in which the eu considers taiwan an economic and trade entity and supports taiwan's participation as an observer in relevant international organisations.
in writing. i am pleased to have written an opinion on this report in the committee on women's rights. i've been seriously considering the issue of children's rights in the context of external relations. my opinion was unanimously adopted . in particular, it recalls that the eu's external strategy on the rights of the child should be based on the values and principles defined in the universal declaration of human rights, in particular in articles 3, 16, 18, 23, 25, 26 and 29. these are particularly important for the human person and the common good. the opinion stresses that all measures in favour of the rights of the child should respect the priority status of the parents and the child's closest relatives. by adopting my position, the ep is promoting the importance of protecting human life from its birth and giving each child its own identity. i was able to introduce provisions that condemn gender-specific discrimination based on hereditary characteristics, which is becoming more common in some countries. the opinion calls on the commission to underline, within the framework of the union's development policy, the importance and need to register the birth of every child in all third countries and to link its aid programmes to this requirement. i support any effort that facilitates development aid. but i insist that humanitarian organisations and international bodies responsible for allocating aid ensure that adequate aid and the necessary resources actually reach the children and are not wasted.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. on the one hand, the ec considers that, according to international treaties and the case law of the court of justice, the eu does not have general competence in the field of fundamental rights, including the rights of the child (com (2006) 367 final, § 1.3, p. 3). on the other hand, the union intends to take over powers which do not belong to it. the resolution does not recognize the ethical sovereignty of developing countries. fails to respect paragraph 9 of the programme of action of the fourth world conference on women held in beijing in 1995, which states: 'the implementation of this programme of action, including within the legal frameworks of the various states through the formulation of strategies, policies, programmes and development priorities, is a sovereign competence of each state, which respects all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the consideration and strict observance of the various religious and ethical norms, cultural heritage and philosophical beliefs of individuals and their communities should help women to fully enjoy their fundamental rights and thus enable these countries to achieve equality, development and peace.' finally , the report also focuses on the promotion of sexual and reproductive health . this term has never been defined by the union. who and some ngos use the term to promote abortion. the resolution explicitly promotes sexual and reproductive health (§ 44), without regard to the definition and competence of the union in this area. and that is unacceptable.
in writing. − i support this initiative for the benefit of employees, as information and consultation with employees are essential elements of a social market economy. they must not be regarded as an obstacle to the economic development of undertakings. in the current situation, which has been disrupted by the financial crisis, there is a need to strengthen the democratic involvement of employees in decision-making. rather, it is that restructuring, mergers and production relocations can be expected in enterprises. i consider consultation of employees to be particularly important and justified in two areas: reconciling family and professional life and safeguarding sunday as a day off from work, as a fundamental pillar of the european social model and part of europe's cultural heritage. i personally supported the demand for a sunday off by staff by submitting a written declaration 0009/2009, which is currently in the signature procedure in the ep. as regards reconciliation between family and professional life, i have recently emphasised this in my report on solidarity between generations. policies and means must be found to reconcile 'good jobs' with the responsibilities of women and men in the home, family planning, private life and work ambitions can only be reconciled if the persons concerned are given the opportunity to make their own economic and social choices and are supported by political and economic decisions at european and national level without any disadvantages for them...
in writing. - in the resolution on women's poverty (a6-0273/2005), i reiterate the urgent need to promote a new europe characterised by the creative coexistence of cultures and mentalities, with full respect for diversity. a europe where freedom and responsibility are not limited to the free movement of capital, but where citizens share their abilities regardless of their social status. a europe where creativity flourishes and the dignity of each citizen is protected for the good of all. i am reminded of the new forms of poverty and social exclusion that should encourage creativity and help those who are dependent on it. the report by mrs toia supports this approach, which i welcome and voted for. as the values of the social market economy are highly aligned with the eu's general objectives on social inclusion, decent employment, training and reintegration into the labour market should be part of it. the social economy has shown that it can significantly improve the position of disadvantaged people (micro-credit cooperatives introduced by nobel prize winner muhammad yunus have improved the position and increased the influence of women by enabling them to improve their financial and family situation). social innovation supports people with disabilities to find solutions to their social problems, work-life balance, equal opportunities for women and men, quality of family life and the ability to care for children, the elderly and the disabled.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of this resolution. in the intergroup on carers, we have often discussed the eu's options for engaging in this policy, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and the priority decision-making of the member states. i support the call for cooperation between the european institutions, the member states, regional and local authorities and the social partners in the five priority areas for promoting mental health. people of all ages, genders, ethnic backgrounds and socioeconomic groups should be protected from stigmatisation and social exclusion. their human dignity comes first and therefore the provision of support and appropriate treatment for people with mental health problems, their families and carers should be strengthened. mental health depends on many factors, which is why in my report on intergenerational solidarity i emphasise the educational role of parents in relation to future generations. nor do i forget the help given to the elderly or dependent members of the family and the indispensable role of women and men as caregivers, which is essential for the promotion of the common good. this should be recognised as such through cross-cutting policies. women and men who freely choose to care for sick family members should be financially rewarded. interruption of working life for the purpose of caring for relatives with mental health disorders cannot have negative consequences for professional careers or the financial support of the family. i call on the member states to support leave schemes that will also deal with these cases.
in writing. − crossborder cooperation is an important impetus for the sustainable development of neighbouring border regions. increased people-to-people contacts and personal experiences with democracy and the rule of law are a prerequisite for the optimal implementation of european neighbourhood policy projects, and therefore it is necessary to develop concrete tools to ensure regular monitoring of the management and implementation process of joint operational programmes on both sides of the eu's borders. i welcome the fact that in his report on the revision of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, the rapporteur, mr konrad szymański, has included crossborder cooperation within the scope of the enpi regulation. i voted in favour of a report which can make the negotiation process easier for the candidate countries. countries like ukraine, georgia, moldova, which benefit from the european neighbourhood policy, can get closer to the eu through joint projects. i also draw on the experience gained during the implementation of the community initiative interreg iiia, in the implementation of a joint slovak-polish project concerning the drainage of the village of chmeľnica on the slovak side and the town of piwničná on the polish side of the common border. i believe that all training initiatives, including language training programmes for neighbouring countries, as well as partnership initiatives for civil servants, need to be supported. i believe that the regular analyses of capacity building and institution building on both sides of the eu's borders proposed by the rapporteur will help to implement this instrument.
something is wrong again with respect for the rights of national minorities in slovakia, thanks to the minister of education, a representative of the extremely nationalist ruling party. according to his decision, only those history textbooks that are a literal translation of the slovak ones can now be used in schools with the language of instruction of national minorities. he's making sure that history is taught according to his party's orders, not according to the facts. this is contrary to the practice of the past, but also to the internationally guaranteed rights of minorities. in the union, each minority community has a natural right to own its own history. the outrage of hungarian teachers, but also the entire community in slovakia, is justified. it is intolerable that an extremist party should continually generate tension against minorities in this way. it is irresponsible that during the global economic crisis, anyone feels the need to revolt against national minorities. it's playing with fire to do something like that in such a precarious situation.
in my speech, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to 15 march, which has been declared international consumer rights day on the initiative of consumer international. this day is an excellent opportunity to bring the european union closer to its citizens through consumer protection policy. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have worked intensively on this issue. i am pleased to see the great interest of young people who are actively involved in various consumer activities. for example, the international competition for young consumers spotreba za život, organised by the association of consumer organisations of slovakia, is attended by more and more young consumers every year, who tell interesting stories about their first experiences with consumer choice and decisions. i would encourage eu member state governments to strengthen and support consumer organisations. only strong, representative and effective ngos can raise consumer awareness of their rights.
the reporter. − thank you, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when drawing up the budget of the european parliament, we must focus on our core mission and make the best use of resources to improve parliament's legislative work. things that are not related to our mission, we must exclude from the budget as much as possible. if members are to work effectively, they must be able to carry out their duties in their own language, if they so choose. in many cases, problems and waste of money can be avoided by changing the languages according to actual rather than planned attendance at the negotiations in a short time. many of you will be aware that some committees did not have documents available in the basic languages at the time of approval. if this leads to extraordinary committee meetings or other unnecessary delays, we lose time and financial resources. as with translation, we need to increase flexibility and flexibility in interpretation services. i have gained a lot of useful insights and information from my talks with representatives of the various directorates-general of the european parliament. some reservations are proposed to be removed by the representatives of the directorates themselves. in some cases, however, they will need our help. there are many examples. certainly none of you, ladies and gentlemen, will consider it a reduction in the security of parliament if both doors to the european parliament in strasbourg are not opened during the period outside the plenary sessions. in some places, notably in strasbourg and luxembourg, there is no need for police presence. on the other hand, the current protection system is flawed. we saw this for ourselves in the recent raid on the ing bank branch in the european parliament in brussels, but also in the threat to the lives of two meps in mumbai. i believe that the proposals being prepared by the directorate itself will bring improvements, but also better use of resources and interesting financial savings. we can save millions more by improving cooperation between institutions. the available capacity of each institution shall be made available to the other institutions. lack of planning, lack of communication or no communication about available translation capacities prevents their effective use. the institution that is to provide the translation often orders an external translator automatically and does not even check whether internal capacities are not available. in the field of translation within the institutions alone, we can save more than eur 10 million a year. i hope that you will support the proposal to make maximum use of independent analyses of resource use and work organisation. meps need to have comprehensive information about the resources and materials available to them in order to carry out their work responsibly and effectively. that is why we asked the administration to create a knowledge management system that will allow us to work efficiently with all documents. we will have the first concrete proposals in this area in a few weeks. another priority is to better inform citizens about the work of their representatives in the european parliament and the benefits of parliament's work for the citizens of the european union. here we need to complete, consolidate and make efficient use of the ep television, the visitor centre and the new audiovisual centre. one of the main components of the administrative expenditure of the institutions of the european union is expenditure on the purchase and rental of buildings. in the past, institutions have in various cases bought or leased assets at prices above the market price. the court found that the institutions had not even assessed their building policy jointly or individually. we therefore need to develop a common policy on buildings to improve cooperation in this area. we expect a medium to long-term strategy paper on building policy as soon as possible, so that we can take the relevant decisions at first reading. thank you. thank you.
the basic logic of the construction of the european parliament's budget, as proposed by the rapporteur for the committee on budgets, mr vladimir manka, is good. it covers those sites which have proved to be weaker and not fully balanced or not sufficiently implemented in recent years. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. despite expectations, the full functioning of one of the fundamental axioms of the european union, namely equal access and non-discrimination on grounds of linguistic origin, has not been achieved. in this context, i am not primarily referring to equal access and non-discrimination in relation to the work of meps, but in particular to the possibility for citizens of the european union, regardless of their mother tongue, to have access to information on the work and outcome of the deliberations of an institution whose representatives are elected by direct universal suffrage. five years on, even after the european union has been enlarged more massively, this situation really seems like an absurd game of time. this undermines confidence in the european institutions, especially in smaller countries, and creates a platform for nationalist political groups.
the reporter. − i would like to thank all the speakers for the stimulating discussion and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. their amending proposals also improve the overall quality of the proposal. i would also like to thank the secretary-general, mr rømer, for his cooperation and i look forward to working with the new future secretary-general. i thank all the representatives of the european parliament's directorates-general with whom i have met and negotiated. i would like to tell the representatives of the other dgs that i am also interested in meeting them and working together to find effective solutions to make better use of the funds of european citizens. the committee on budgets has had constructive cooperation with the other institutions in the past, including during the previous budgetary procedure. i believe that the budgetary requirements these institutions are presenting these days are realistic. i want to appreciate the budgeting of those institutions that do not budget according to the inflation coefficient, automatically, but based on real needs, and that is really very important at this time. in the coming days, i will meet with representatives of the institutions to hear their views before we discuss these estimates in the committee on budgets. thank you again to all my colleagues and i look forward to working with you in the future.
in writing. gross revenues from online gambling in 2004 amounted to eur 2 to 3 billion. according to that study, sicls currently account for around 5% of the total gambling market in the eu. rapid growth in these services is inevitable in the future, so we need clear and transparent rules. the rapporteur, mrs schaldemos, has put forward a different approach to the gambling industry in europe, and i cannot support her report. it makes no distinction between gambling operators who are licensed and operate in accordance with the law and those who operate often without a licence and illegally. it is a fact that most european countries have a gambling industry. i agree that the rules on online gambling should remain the responsibility of the individual member states. unless there is evidence of player intimidation, money laundering or corruption in sport, not every company can be classed as a criminal. there are also reputable companies that use cutting-edge technology and operate within the law. i'm not a fan, but i'm more of an opponent of online gambling. however, in my experience, a blanket ban would lead to an increase in the illegality of this activity without any rules. i think the position i have drawn up with my colleagues is a fairer and clearer alternative to the rapporteur's report.
mr president, in the case of online gambling there must be clear and unambiguous laws that serve to limit, control and account for the nearly eur 3 billion in annual gross revenue realised by the gambling industry. however, according to mrs schaldemose, that eur 3 billion is only 5% of the total gambling market in the european union. therefore, the importance and influence of this industry is obvious – as are its dangers. gambling is often correctly associated with crime at international level, and cross-border gambling rings which are much easier to run via the internet jeopardise the laws of various nations and harbour risks to national sovereignty. it is also important to note the negative effects on health associated with gambling. as a medical doctor, i am well aware of the damaging characteristics of obsessive or addictive gambling. these are not issues that the european parliament can underestimate. when it comes to tackling fraud, criminal behaviour and financial and medical issues that correspond to online gambling, i call on the european parliament to vote repeatedly on better and better solutions in future.
mr president, i have supported the report of mrs herzog. there are 23 million smes in the european union. they represent up to 99% of all businesses and provide jobs for more than 100 million union citizens. in this critical time, they play a key role in economic growth, social cohesion and, above all, job creation. smes are dynamic and have the highest capacity to innovate and develop. they make a significant contribution to the achievement of the lisbon objectives. the main source of financing for smes in europe continues to be loans and credits. the fact that smes are in most cases considered to be riskier makes it difficult for them to access finance. it is particularly necessary to create favourable conditions for smes' access to financial resources, both loans and european union funds, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of their business activities.
in writing. − i believe that gender inequality should be phased out of our lives. in today's civilized world, the disparity between men and women, and majorities and minorities, must be done away with. the european parliament must observe its past legislation and uphold the values of universal solidarity. there must be a gender mix in the decision-making process for the performing arts and various other areas. in order to find true talent, the most capable performers and deserving applicants, women must be given equal status with men in the same fields. where men are favoured over women, or vice versa, there must be serious corrections and viable protection to end this inconsistency. depriving a group on the basis of sex or any other characteristic will not be tolerated by the eu, and it is our duty to ensure this applies across the field of the performing arts (and others areas as well). for this reason, it is my duty and that of the epp-ed party to give a vote of confidence to any legislation that supports equality, corrects wrongdoings, and better preserves cohesion between members of the opposite sex.
we probably all, without exception, recognize the importance of implementing all the barcelona objectives in our daily lives. the reconciliation of family and working life is essential for the application of the principle of equality in employment. on the other hand, it also benefits children in their subsequent healthy development. supporting the expansion of services in the area of pre-school and out-of-school facilities, parent centres, as well as the operation of broad-spectrum multifunctional day-care community centres, increases the accessibility, flexibility and equity of the public social services system for families in order to make them competitive and to increase their quality. the situation in the provision of day care services for children in slovakia is quite complex. public day care facilities for the youngest children up to two or three years old have virtually disappeared, operating only exceptionally, and private facilities are unaffordable for most parents. competence in this area has been transferred to cities and municipalities, which may or may not participate in the establishment of these facilities. the situation with coverage of the older child population, i.e. three to six years old, i.e. the so-called nursery school, is also not much better. according to estimated statistics within the european union, fewer children aged three and over attend school than in slovakia only in greece, lithuania, poland and slovenia. countries with social and family policies shaped by the principle and meaning of equality between women and men, such as finland, sweden, france, have had high fertility rates in recent years, while countries that promote traditional division of parental roles face low fertility and increasing childlessness, such as germany, spain, italy. many countries with a high proportion of women in the labour market, such as the nordic countries, also have the highest birth and fertility rates. state support is also needed to enable a woman to pursue a job and at the same time to fulfill her desire to be a mother. after all, the demographic situation is the result of the state's interest or disinterest in the future generation. the state, by promoting family policy, creates a necessary condition for the family. the ignoring of these values and the promotion of a consumer lifestyle is probably the cause of the present demographic twilight. on the other hand, pre-school facilities are also of particular importance for problematic groups of the population, such as children from socially vulnerable groups and roma children. it is precisely in these kindergartens that children learn basic hygiene habits and are gradually introduced to rules of conduct. we can say that the barcelona objectives should be part of the national policy of the state in the care of citizens.
the reconciliation between the family responsibilities of mothers and fathers and the professional ambitions of employees has a very positive and immediate impact on society as a whole. i propose that the definition of work be revised to highlight the benefits of reconciling family responsibilities and professional ambitions. family responsibilities cannot be automatically considered harmful to the mother's future just because she temporarily leaves the formal labour market. until now, national and european policies have only perceived the citizen in terms of the requirements of the labour market. responding to the demographic crisis, on the contrary, also sees the citizen in his role as parent, mother and father in relation to the responsibility towards the family. this raises a question of principle that gives direction to further consideration. i ask, what model of society do we want to promote? do we want families geared to the market and businesses, or businesses and markets geared to families? this is not a pointless question. european and national policies in this area are determined by the tension between the logic of the market and the logic of human nature. the task of society is to act in such a way that women and men are free to choose between two logical options, each of which has its reason for existence in a broader vision, such as the vision of work. the logic of the european union's life-cycle policy is of particular importance in terms of specifically considering active categories of men and women aged 15-49 to fulfil their exceptional role in addressing the demographic crisis. contrary to the european commission's proposals, the decision to give birth to children cannot simply be seen as an individual goal to fulfil the desire to have children.
in labour migration, children are often the victims of the improvement in the economic situation of families. the former czechoslovak republic experienced a large wave of migration, especially to the united states, in the period between the two world wars. but they were migrants who lived in extreme poverty back home. even when children were temporarily in the care of one parent, the time span was usually limited. in today's consumer society and with family relationships in jeopardy, the cases are far more tragic. often it is not extreme poverty that motivates parents to work abroad. often one or both parents never return, and they are indifferent to the fate of their children. close family care is the better option. this aspect should be borne in mind in regional development policy and we should strive to eliminate regional disparities, especially in the new member states.
the western european council talks about the need to help the countries of central and eastern europe overcome the crisis. but in the same words, and more precisely in those of mr sarkozy, he speaks of these countries as a black hole that poses a risk to the european union. i reject this trivial generalization of a problem which affects western countries in exactly the same way. the result of such statements is a decline in confidence in the institutions of the countries of central and eastern europe, and instead of aid, a knife in the back. last week, european leaders rejected protectionism, which would have meant the creation of a new iron curtain in a united europe. on the other hand, the european commission has confirmed the existence of a large amount of state aid for french car manufacturers. however, unequal discriminatory approaches are also found in other areas. this is particularly evident in agriculture. europe is becoming two-faced and the eurosceptics are flourishing.
in writing. the european economy is suffering from the effects of the global financial crisis and the most widespread and severe downturn in 60 years. this crisis is a huge test for europe. it has affected businesses as well as citizens and their families. many of them live in fear, mainly of losing their jobs, and are waiting to see how the union will behave. europe must not be just the sum of 27 national interests, but must be based on solidarity and the willingness of the member states and regions to implement its programming objectives as quickly as possible. it should be clear to us that in times of economic crisis we should focus on the lisbon objectives, especially in the area of employment. it is cohesion policy that has the financial instruments that must be applied more intensively and more flexibly in times of crisis. eu cohesion policy funding for the period 2007-2013 can make a significant contribution to meeting the objectives of the union's renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, namely citizens, business, infrastructure, energy and research and innovation. we need better coordination, to get rid of protectionism and any demagoguery. we need to restore capital flows and capital transfer. i believe that investments in innovation, new technologies, eco-innovation bring new potential that is essential to ensure an effective response to the current financial crisis. we must remove all barriers and create a genuine internal market for renewable energy.
madam president, i thank ms kovács for the informative and helpful report on the situation of the roma. as you all know, the population of the roma is ever-expanding and consistently becoming a huge and influential force throughout europe. this group of 10-12 million people is amongst the poorest on the continent, yet has immeasurable potential. as europeans and members of the european parliament, which was founded on the pillar of equality, we must react to this problem as quickly as possible. the continual oppression of one of europe’s largest minorities is shameful and inefficient. with better regulation and a higher degree of cooperation, nations may be able to provide work for this huge block of potential labourers. with the looming economic crisis, the roma may be able to help solve some of europe’s deepest problems. in addition, the prejudice against and degradation of these people has gone on long enough. equal rights and opportunities must be provided to all citizens of europe, including the roma. just at the beginning of this month in hungary two roma people were shot like animals when they were trying to escape from their burning house. how is it possible that in a united europe there are cases like this?
i was in china during the time of the sad events in tibet in march 2008. i could only follow the events through the internet, because we were not allowed to go to tibet. it was then that i saw how much the people of tibet needed help. i am convinced that the european parliament, through this resolution, must also explain to the chinese government the words of his holiness the dalai lama, that tibet has no separatist tendencies and is only seeking recognition of tibet's cultural autonomy within china. i understand that the european union is keen to have good economic relations with china, as we explained in our march 2008 imco outgoing talks with the chinese government and meps in beijing. but we cannot be indifferent to the situation in tibet and to the continuing violation of human rights, to the repression, to the suffering, to the violence. i expect that on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the dalai lama's departure for indian exile, the chinese authorities will grant unrestricted access to tibet to independent observers and foreign media to examine the situation on the ground.
we know that our friends in the balkans were tested. both slovenia and croatia when they were invaded by serbia and our sympathies were on both sides. i must say that the european union was generous in accepting slovenia into the european union at a time when all the disputes between slovenia and croatia had not yet been fully resolved, and i think that we should take a similar attitude towards croatia now. i am sorry that some politicians in slovenia would like to block croatia's entry now, but as i have heard from my colleague mrs jordan cizelj, she is in favour of such a reasonable and, i would say, balanced approach to this political issue. i believe that the informal agreement, which will be further discussed between croatia and slovenia under the auspices of the commission, will be a success.
macedonia has been a candidate country for three years. however, the accession negotiations have not yet started. if the union does not act swiftly and decisively, the loss of credit could have destabilising consequences for the region. the country has made great progress in recent years, with good economic performance, progress towards a functioning market economy and legislative success. there was a concerted effort by the government and the opposition, civil society and public opinion to bring the country into compliance with the copenhagen criteria as soon as possible. they also organized the coexistence of national and ethnic communities. it is incomprehensible that greece should obstinately block the opening of accession negotiations. the name of the country should not be an obstacle. there may be bilateral negotiations on the name. i support the report because it is an important message to the macedonian people and will be a decisive impetus for the start of meaningful negotiations this year. thank you very much.
i voted for the resolution on the situation in tibet on the 50th anniversary of the tibetan uprising, also because the chinese authorities have recently tightened security in tibet and journalists and foreigners are banned from entering the area. today's debate in the european parliament is a message that we are very concerned about the situation in tibet, especially the suffering and repression of the innocent population. i call on the council to establish, as provided for in the resolution, a so-called truth commission to find out exactly what happened during the negotiations between the people's republic of china and the envoys of his holiness the dalai lama. i call on the chinese government to immediately release all those still detained for participating in a peaceful protest.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address the video games industry, which has annual revenues of up to eur 7.3 billion. as video games become more popular with both children and adults, it is important to have a political debate on their regulatory framework. there are also video games that are designed to develop the skills and knowledge needed for life in the 21st century. however, i would point out that violent video games that are intended for adults can have a negative effect on children in particular. it is therefore our duty to protect consumers, especially children. children should not have access to purchases of video games that are not intended for their age group. the introduction of a pan-european information system on games, which classifies games by age, has helped to increase transparency in purchasing games for children, but retailers still lack sufficient information on the harmful effects of video games on children. at this point, raising awareness of these negative impacts on children is essential and cooperation between producers, retailers, consumer organisations, schools and parents is needed. member states should put in place measures to prevent children from buying video games intended for older age groups. i also welcome the proposal from the european commission and the council on rules for labelling video games and the creation of voluntary rules of conduct for interactive video games for children.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2008 progress report on croatia and i am pleased that this important resolution was adopted by the ep with a large consensus. the resolution commends the good results achieved by croatia in 2008 in adopting the legislation and implementing the reforms needed to gain eu membership. these results need to be continuously consolidated by adopting and implementing reforms. i believe that the border dispute between slovenia and croatia will also be resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, thanks to the personal commitment of commissioner rehn, so that the accession negotiations can move forward swiftly. of course, a successful outcome requires consensus and, above all, the goodwill of the slovenian and croatian governments to find a satisfactory and sustainable solution. even with this resolution, we cannot see only croatia. we must not forget slovenia's pioneering role, which has significantly launched the pro-european process in the balkans. slovenia was the first balkan country to join the eu, the schengen area and the euro area, and it is an example and a good inspiration for the other balkan countries. i believe that the accession negotiations with croatia will be completed by 2009.
two weeks ago, mr. chairman, you gave us a very sad and terrible news. in germany a young man killed 15 people and then killed himself. he murdered and, among many others, brought grief and despair to his own family. they lost a child, too, their world fell apart. let me quote the president of the federal republic of germany at the funeral of the victims: 'we are all faced with a serious question. are we doing enough to protect ourselves and our children? are we doing enough to protect those in danger? are we doing enough for internal peace in our countries? we have to examine ourselves, what we have to do better in the future, what lessons we have to draw from this fact. let us also help parents and their children to avoid dangers. i therefore call again on the european parliament and the european commission to support a europe-wide campaign: do you know where your child is now? as i have said on this soil, let us do everything we can to ensure that such an event never happens again.
i would like to draw attention to the rights-abusing procedure used by the slovak government to curb the linguistic rights of minorities. the government passed an amendment to the state language law last week that the government says does not affect the use of minority languages, but the bill does not say that. i'd like to give you two examples. the proposal's 8th paragraph, paragraph 4, concerns health and social institutions and says that a person belonging to a minority can use his or her mother tongue in these institutions in two cases: if he or she does not know the state language or if this institution is located in a municipality where the percentage of minorities exceeds 20%. so the doctor will ask the patient what language he speaks first, and then he can ask what's wrong with him, because otherwise, the bill proposes a fine of between 100 and 5,000 euros for violating the law. the situation is no better in the field of information, because radio broadcasts - except for public service radio - should be broadcast first in the minority language and then in translation. mr. president, i have only one question: can the minority count on europe's support?
i thank the rapporteur, bravo, dagmar, for her work on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council which the commission has forwarded to us. it is a very important document to protect the health of consumers. after all, we all use cosmetics, not just for beauty, but also for everyday use, whether it be toothpaste, deodorant, shampoo, hair spray, nail polish, lipstick, and so forth. it has been 33 years since the last directive, which is a long enough time, despite the amending articles. yet, developments in chemistry and in cosmetics themselves have marked a major and, one might say, a fundamental change. this is the use of the nanoparticles so often mentioned, which can have a positive effect as well as a negative effect on human health. i therefore agree that all substances used in cosmetic products and having a carcinogenic effect should be banned. careful consideration should also be given to the use of substances where a mutagenic and toxic effect cannot be excluded. the consumer often buys a cosmetic product on the basis of misleading advertising or incomplete information, so we should try to develop guidelines and control guidelines through our european agencies, whether it is the european chemicals agency, the european food safety authority. it should be noted that cosmetic products are the most common group of counterfeit products, and therefore the likelihood of harmful substances is even higher. in addition to these warnings, we should seek to inform consumers about the risks that may threaten their health, even if they are products from reputable companies.
rapporteur. − madam president, before we open the debate on the report on the implementation of the structural funds regulation 2007-2013, allow me to seize this opportunity to thank the commission for the concrete communication paper and the country fiches as a solid base on which to work. i would especially like to thank those who worked with me on the report, especially our epp-ed adviser, ms stoian, and our committee administrator, mr chopin, who both devoted long hours to this report. let me briefly recapitulate on the making of this report, which obtained, with just a few compromises, the full support of the committee on regional development just last month. as you may already know, the aim of this report is to show the way in which the member states understood and follow the 2006 community strategic guidelines on cohesion when drawing up their 27 national strategic reference frameworks and 429 operational programmes adapted to meet their specific constraints and requirements. i have therefore decided to base this report on three main documents: firstly, the communication from the commission; secondly, the 27 country fiches provided by the commission and, thirdly, the council decision of 2006 on community strategic guidelines on cohesion, which represents an indicative framework for the member states for the preparation of the national strategic reference frameworks and the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013. the three leading priorities that were clearly set by the aforementioned council decision are: firstly, making europe and its regions more attractive places in which to invest and work; the second priority is to improve knowledge and innovation for growth; and the third priority is to attract more people into employment or entrepreneurial activity in order to create more and better jobs. before i share what i have observed while working on this report, it is important to underline that its scope is partly limited by the fact that the operational programmes were only approved in june 2008 and it will take at least a year before any real advances in their implementation can be assessed. nevertheless, i can already assess that the general priorities have been adhered to by all member states, with specific particularities imposed by their level of economic and territorial development. it is also important to note that they might suffer certain changes in the sense of the increasing focus on investments in areas with immediate growth potential and urgency in the context of the european economic recovery plan, the community response to the global financial crisis, and the current economic slowdown. in other words, it is important to remember that each member state, and even more so the regions, have diverse needs arising from their geographical location and economic and institutional development. therefore, the resulting tailor-made national cohesion strategies in the operational programme undoubtedly vary significantly according to these needs. it is known that member states were required by the general regulations of the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund to earmark 60% of the total expenditure for the cohesion objective and 75% for the regional competitiveness and employment objective. however, i am pleased to see that the efforts made by the national authorities have ensured that the average allocation of expenditure for achievement of the lisbon agenda constitutes 65% – more than the available funds in the convergence regions – and 82% in the regional competitiveness and employment regions, which is also more than initially requested. i see my time is up. i had much more prepared. i will finish at the end of this debate.
rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, requested for an opinion. - at the beginning of my speech, i would like to thank my colleague, mr miroslav mikolášik, who has incorporated in his report, in points 12, 16, 17, 18 and 23, the points of my opinion, which i drafted on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. these points, based on my own experience as mayor of chmelnica and on input from non-profit organisations, are key to making the use of the eu funds more efficient and transparent. i am convinced that the 2007-2013 programming period will not be successful unless member states remove excessive administrative obstacles that discourage ngos from applying for funding for projects, in particular those aimed at supporting women in economically disadvantaged situations, immigrant women, ethnic minorities, women with disabilities and women who are victims of violence or torture. i reiterate my call on the member states, especially those that joined the european union after 1 may 2004, to avoid paying too late for completed projects, as the insolvency caused by this action often prevents beneficiaries, in particular local authorities and non-profit organisations, from continuing to carry out further activities in their field of competence. the economic crisis is also affecting the drawdown of money from the european funds. the current way of financing projects is not suitable for small municipalities in particular, and there is no chance of obtaining funding for projects. it is therefore necessary to discuss and adopt measures to simplify the financing system. the representatives of the municipalities and cities in my country, slovakia, say that if the current legislation is not changed, the money from the european structural funds will be drawn to a much smaller extent than it is now. the absence of effective, simple and comprehensive support for smaller settlements is very important, and i believe that these reports will help to draw on the structural funds.
the debate on the coordination of cohesion policy and rural development measures is full of contradictions. the main reason is the substantial reduction in the rural development budget, which makes it impossible to achieve the original objectives of rural policy. it happened during the british presidency. however, the rural areas in the most backward regions of the new member states are the most affected. alongside discrimination in direct payments, the cap thus becomes a tool for the two-speed development of rural areas and, indirectly, of regions. the real development clearly confirms that it is absurd to imagine that it would be possible to develop the countryside where agriculture is failing. we will never achieve the revitalization of the lagging regions in the european union if we do not ensure rural development within the original budgetary framework. rural development cannot be implemented by sudden ad hoc decisions, but must be planned for the long term. that's what we're missing. the return of the rural development budget thus becomes a key condition for the whole of cohesion policy.
regional development policy clearly contributes to the general well-being of the citizens of the union. it is already a social policy in principle and as such we in the group of the party of european socialists fully support it and are consistently developing it. at a recent meeting with citizens, some people asked me why they should go and vote for meps. after discussing how much and where the eu contributes in different regions of europe and concrete examples of how it affects millions of people, cohesion policy became one big argument for me to go and vote. in addition, i also mentioned the important role played by the european parliament in the process of adopting both cohesion policy and budgetary appropriations, which will increase significantly once the lisbon treaty enters into force. i emphasised that this treaty would bring regional policy much closer to the citizen, increase the role of cities and municipalities and all potential beneficiaries in the management of regional policy, promote their synergy and strengthen the development of territorial cohesion, including rural areas. i also pointed out that regional development policy is one of the simplest and most flexible community instruments for dealing with the crisis we are currently experiencing. it helps to solve, for example, unemployment, investment, as well as social problems. regional policy, when conducted in a professional and transparent manner, simply confirms that it is a strong pillar of the european union, one that will continue to be built on to a large extent and increase its effectiveness, and that is an important link between european citizens and institutions.
ladies and gentlemen, i consider today's coordinated debate on regional policy to be the most important debate not only in this plenary, but also one of the most important debates of our electoral period. it is a chance to reach out to european citizens on the subject they understand best, especially ahead of the european parliament elections in june. the lack of effective, simple and comprehensive support for smaller settlements, especially in terms of access to investment funds, is alarming. i therefore believe that these reports will also lead to a reassessment of cohesion policy, in particular of certain operational programmes, which should be reopened and reworked. in conclusion, let me express my conviction that the european parliament's recommendations in these five reports will add value and fulfil the expectations of citizens in european cities and in rural areas who believe that cohesion policy will ensure them regional development, the gradual closure of regional disparities, new job opportunities, energy security, improved energy efficiency in their homes, better transport and technical infrastructure and a higher standard of living.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me present in conclusion certain ideas which i did not have the time to include in my introductory speech. i am very pleased to see that over eur 100 billion is to be invested in protecting the environment. at the same time, i would seriously welcome a much higher allocation for energy efficiency and renewable energies – currently eur 9 million – as well as a higher allocation for measures to combat climate change, which, at eur 48 billion, is less than required at the moment. i strongly believe that deciding on how we use these funds to protect our regions and combat the consequences of climate change, such as floods and droughts, will determine the future of our regions and their economic positioning. i also greatly appreciate the fact that all member states have already devoted a significant amount of their total financial allocations to investments in research, development and innovation, but i have also noticed that, for most of the eu convergence regions, ensuring accessibility remains a significant problem as they face a lack of transport infrastructure. on the other hand, i am glad to witness member states’ efforts to prioritise investments aimed at increasing labour participation and improving skills, as well as fighting against poverty and social exclusion in their programmes financed by the european social funds. furthermore, i encourage new member states to continue to build up effective partnerships and to consistently reinforce the partnership principle while implementing the operational programmes. i believe that the new member states could truly benefit from further exchanges of best practices and knowledge about developments in technologies, for example, and from other common actions to speed up their potential as regards implementation.
mr president, allow me to thank my colleague from the committee on culture and education, mr graça mour, for his work on the report, which i voted in favour of. it builds on documents which have been discussed in the european parliament in the past. enlargements have contributed to the linguistic diversity of the european union. today, we speak 23 languages and more than 60 other languages spoken in regions or groups. globalisation and migration flows also contribute to the wide range of languages europeans use on a daily basis. linguistic diversity is thus undoubtedly one of the most characteristic features of the european union, affecting the social, cultural and professional lives of its citizens as well as the economic and political activities of the member states. i consider the commission's communication on this subject to be of particular importance. i agree with the rapporteur that the linguistic and cultural diversity of the european union is a great competitive advantage and that there is a clear need to promote language teaching and cultural exchange programmes in schools.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the epp-ed political group, i was involved in the preparation of the legislative package on the marketing of goods, which was approved by the ep in february 2008. i worked on the report on the draft decision on the common framework for the marketing of products and my amendments were geared towards increasing the responsibility of importers, reducing the administrative burden on smes, maintaining the new approach as the basic framework for the marketing of products, and making the creation and use of european standards more flexible. this package has become a basic premise for the revision of other sectoral directives, in particular the already adopted toy directive, the cosmetic products regulation and the construction products regulations. the cosmetic products regulation is based on the basic principle of the legislative package of placing goods on the market. on the one hand, there is the responsibility of manufacturers for the conformity of their products with the applicable european law, and on the other hand, the responsibility of the member states, which are the guarantors of the european union's market surveillance. i voted for the roth-behrendt report on the proposal for a regulation on cosmetic products to replace the current directive, which has become cumbersome and obsolete. the cosmetics industry has experienced unprecedented growth in recent years and the legislation in force no longer provides the necessary legal certainty. i welcome the new legislation which will contribute to greater consumer protection and ensure that consumers are protected from harmful cosmetic products.
the written document. - i have made a special effort to ensure that the committee i chair can complete the work leading to the vote on the resolution. this theme is without doubt important: female genital mutilation causes serious and irreparable damage to the physical and mental health of the women and girls who undergo it, constitutes violence against their person and integrity and in some cases can have even fatal consequences. the ep calls on the member states to adopt a preventive strategy of measures aimed at protecting minors that would not stigmatise immigrant communities, through public programmes and social care services aimed at preventing such practices and providing assistance to victims of such practices. calls on the member states to consider, in accordance with the child protection legislation, whether the threat or risk of sexual mutilation of a minor cannot be a reason for intervention by the state authorities; member states should develop guidelines for healthcare professionals, teachers and social workers to inform parents about the risks of female genital mutilation, with due regard and, where necessary, the assistance of an interpreter. however, the resolution also calls for the promotion of sexual and reproductive health. this term has never been defined by the world health organisation or the acquis communautaire. for this reason, it is used by some groups to promote abortion. i'm sorry, but i held out for that reason.
in writing. − this report again demonstrated that rule 45/2 has serious shortcomings. the original rapporteur's report, voted on by the committee responsible, may be amended by an amendment, which must be a new report. the drafters shall take over the report and insert new paragraphs which the rapporteur cannot influence. the report approved by the committee shall therefore be replaced by a new text in the case of an alternative approved. i consider this procedure to be very unfair to the rapporteur. i hope that in the near future the ep will reconsider this procedure and adopt a fairer solution. i found the vasco graça moura report very balanced and therefore did not vote for the alternative proposal of the pse, alde and verts/ale group. as this proposal was passed by the original report, no vote was taken. i agree with the rapporteur that linguistic and cultural diversity has a significant impact on the daily lives of citizens. it represents a huge foreign exchange for the eu, which is why language teaching, school and cultural exchange programmes need to be supported both within and outside the eu. exchange programmes for teachers at all levels of education to practice teaching different subjects in a foreign language will help to prepare teachers who could then pass on their language skills to pupils and students in their home countries. i call on the member states to devote a great deal of attention to the training of teachers of foreign languages and to ensure that they are adequately remunerated.
the written document. − the resolution on multilingualism is a devizou for europe and an important step towards an educational europe, as it insists that the eu's official languages be recognised as equivalent in all areas of public activity. i am convinced that europe's linguistic diversity is its main cultural asset. it would be wrong for the eu to limit itself to a single language. the resolution stresses the importance of multilingualism, which concerns not only economic and social aspects but also cultural and scientific production and its dissemination, and the importance of literary and technical translations for the eu's long-term development. lastly, languages play an important role in the formation and strengthening of identity. multilingualism is a broad field. it has a huge impact on the lives of european citizens. member states are encouraged to integrate multilingualism into education and other policies. i appreciate that the resolution supports the study of a second language of the european union for officials who, in the course of their work, come into contact with nationals of other member states. the role of the eu institutions is crucial in ensuring that the principle of linguistic equality is respected, both in relations between the member states and within the eu institutions themselves, and in the relations of eu citizens with national institutions, community bodies and international institutions. i supported the resolution, congratulated the rapporteur and was proud to be the first slovenian member to open a debate on multilingualism within the institutions by means of a written declaration.
the dramatic decline in global demand for cars has also affected europe. in the last quarter of 2008, car sales in europe recorded a year-on-year decline of over 19%, which is still continuing. several key eu member states have decided to support the car manufacturing sector. however, there are doubts about the procedures chosen and being prepared, which smell of protectionism. i therefore support the european commission's position, which warns against protectionist measures to support domestic producers. the commission's call on the member states to tackle structural problems as a matter of priority, in particular high overproduction and investment in innovative technologies, is also appropriate. any public sector support must be transparent and respect european union competition and state aid rules. competition for subsidies between individual players on the european market must be avoided. the situation is further complicated by the fact that these rules are not taken into account by global competitors, in particular the united states of america. in the united states, subsidies to solve the problems of car companies are planned to be extended to subcontractors of car manufacturers. if the situation heats up like this, europe may not only face problems of how to organize production and sales problems in europe, but will also face the problem of car imports benefiting from above-average state aid. in such a situation, europe should also threaten measures within the world trade organisation. several european countries have introduced scrap bonds, and the united kingdom is the latest to make such efforts. however, scrap metal can only solve the sales crisis in the short term. rather, it will distort markets, drain part of public resources and delay the necessary solutions to implement investments in innovative technologies.
european policy on belarus was clear. human rights and the democratization process were paramount. we didn't reject the approach, but we were clear about the terms, and now the situation has changed. it is true what belarusian political activists and independent experts say: the system has not changed in substance, only cosmetic adjustments have been made. although some political prisoners were released, they were replaced by new ones, and young activists were sent to the army instead of prison. it's not the system that's changed. many in the eu believe that the success of the eastern partnership also depends on belarus. the gap created by the uncertainty in ukraine must be filled by brussels, and lukashenko may be a good candidate. the eu institutions have succeeded in killing their own system of conditions. the commission's years of work could have been ruined by a visit from solana. lukashenko thought he was strong enough to cancel mrs. ferrero-waldner's visit. instead of accepting the terms, minsk found a partner in the compromise-minded solana.
today slovakia is commemorating the 21st anniversary of the bratislava candlelight demonstration. on march 25, 1988, christians who were quietly demonstrating for freedom of the press, freedom of religion, were brutally dispersed by the police and the military. this candlelight demonstration was the historic start of the freedom that slovakia has been seeking, and i therefore fully understand the concerns expressed by my colleagues regarding the change in the european union's position towards lukashenko. i'm convinced that lukashenko should not travel to prague. even from my personal experience with the totalitarian regime in slovakia, i do not believe that a totalitarian leader can change in his heart and mind to a democrat, it is possible only if he is driven to do so by pragmatic reasons. ladies and gentlemen, we should listen more to the belarusian opposition, to alexander milinkievich, and only if we are sure that belarus is truly democratic can we lift all sanctions against belarus.
the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the community has contributed to the achievement of two main objectives of the common agricultural policy during the 22 years of its existence. it helps to stabilise markets by reducing intervention stocks and ensures the necessary food supply for the poorest people in the union. i therefore voted in favour of the consultation report by mr siekierski on the new programme for the provision of food for the poorest proposed by the commission. this scheme was to amount to eur 500 million in 2009, to which member states' co-financing resources should be added. mr president, just as your mother and father watched today's vote, so too did the visitors from slovakia, the prešov and nitrian regions, whom i welcome to the european parliament.
i shall be very brief, because most of what i wanted to say has been said by my colleagues and colleagues from the group of the european socialists. i feel that the report is unbalanced and russophobic. i myself come from a country that for many years lived under a regime that was not easy, easy for most people, but that is why i do not understand why at the moment the wise ladies and gentlemen in this precious chamber want to accept a document that once again we will point the finger at someone and accuse them of something. i assumed that this parliament was capable of understanding the current situation in the world. i absolutely reject the idea that someone here wants to trade the gas pipeline and the oil pipeline for the protection of human rights. the european social democrats want to protect and have always protected human rights, but on the other hand we see quite clearly the reality that awaits us. it is waiting for the european union, it is waiting for the united states of america, it is waiting for russia and it is waiting for the whole world. and we can only face this through good collective bargaining.
mr president, over the years europe and the rest of the world have fought to battle discrimination on all levels. our progression as decent humans demands that we do just that, respecting perfectly the subsidiarity principle. as mrs buitenweg has stated, the commission has promised, for over four years now, to pass a broad and inclusive proposal on the human rights of all people. this is now coming, finally, to fruition. i strongly believe that no person should ever be discriminated against on the basis of his or her religion or belief, disability or age. on the contrary, as a christian believer i call upon the european parliament and each individual to not only stop discrimination but to help those who are being discriminated against because of their disability. this help can come from us in different shapes and forms. each member state has constantly persisted in improving equal access to those who need it the most. as europe continues to integrate, it is paramount that we remember that we are all different yet perfectly equal in all regards.
the structural funds are helping us to cope with the new economic reality. they enable member states to optimise european union investment as an effective remedy to the ongoing economic crisis. the european parliament, through our committee on regional development, is increasingly calling for simplification of administrative rules. i am glad that the commission has finally taken note and found common ground with the council. the administrative burden, late payments and complex checks on the eligibility of expenditure complicate the economy of the final beneficiaries. many officials in my country, in slovakia, often appealing to brussels, put a special emphasis on bureaucracy, checking the accounts of the treasury. they forget that the important thing is the right choice of activity, the content and quality of the project, the effective implementation and the benefits of the project. people on project teams need to focus on quality projects that contribute to creating a competitive environment, not sitting in classrooms for hours and spending precious time and energy and, not least, a mountain of paper on account statements. checking for negligible items often costs many times more than the item itself. i therefore agree to extend the use of lump sums and flat rates to the european regional development fund regulation and to introduce three new forms of justified expenditure, indirect costs up to 20% of direct costs, lump sums up to eur 50 000 and standard flat rate scales of unit costs. for this reason, i regard the package of decisions adopted by the european commission to increase flexibility in the use of the structural funds by the member states as a positive response to the ongoing economic crisis. i believe that simplifying the rules and making funding more flexible will help member states to prepare good projects targeting sectors that will generate high returns. investments need to be directed towards energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing in order to create new jobs and energy savings. by promoting clean technologies, we can help to revive both the automotive and construction industries.
three years ago, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the wives of political prisoners arrested in cuba in march 2003. these women dressed in white fearlessly call attention to human rights violations in their country. the european council has repeatedly concluded that it will continue to engage in an open dialogue with the cuban authorities, but insisting that fundamental human rights and freedoms be respected. however, it also decided that these rights must always be recalled during official visits and that, where possible, meetings with the democratic opposition should be held. i must say that during the official visit of mr michel, the commissioner for development, no such meeting took place, despite the fact that it was requested. it is all the more incomprehensible and shocking that the european commission's visit to cuba took place on the sixth anniversary of the arrest of opponents of the castro regime. i regret that the vice-president of our parliament was also a member of the delegation.
in my speech, i would like to welcome the commission's initiative concerning the europe 2009 citizens' consultation project, which brings together citizens from the european union's 27 member states to discuss the answer to the question: what can the european union do to influence our economic and social future in a globalised world, ahead of the european parliament elections in june? a national consultation of slovak citizens took place on 28 and 29 march. the european citizens' summit will take place in brussels on 10 and 11 may 2009, where 150 participants from 27 national consultations will prepare the final versions of the european recommendations, which will be used by meps in the next parliamentary term as a basis for european legislation. i am convinced that only by engaging with citizens can we restore their confidence in the uniqueness of the european project. i also call on the media to be more objective and active in making information about the european parliament available, which will have a major impact on voter turnout.
on 18 and 19 march 2009, the commissioner for humanitarian aid and development, louis michel, paid a visit to cuba. it was during the 6th anniversary of the imprisonment of 75 opposition leaders. commissioner michel did not meet with ms de blanco or any of the opposition leaders during this visit. according to information from european diplomats, commissioner michel did not mention human rights or the 6th anniversary on any occasion. mr. michel told cuban opposition radio that the date was an official mistake and he didn't know that the damas de blanco wanted to meet with him. i have to say that the vice-president of the european parliament, martínez, who was an official member of the delegation to the european parliament, did not meet with the opposition either, but met with the families of the cuban spies who were arrested in the united states. martínez thus ensured that the castro regime used his visit and the meetings he attended to cover up the activities of the damas de blanco regarding the 6th anniversary, as the media were full of visits by the commissioner and this meeting.
mr president, a law on women's rights, worse, according to afghan senator humeira namati, than the one applicable under the taliban, has been signed by president hamid karzai. this bill legalizes rape of a spouse and prohibits women from going out, working or visiting a doctor without their husband's permission. furthermore, the law grants sole custody of the children to the father and grandfather. i ask you, mr president, to take all the necessary steps immediately to express the total disapproval of this house and to put this item on the urgent agenda for our next sitting. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - although i regard this resolution as generally positive, i must make a few serious comments: in particular, i regret to note that the resolution does not mention the framework for the international year of human rights, proclaimed by the un. furthermore, in this resolution i see another dangerous political trend within european policies, which is the removal of the child from the natural environment, which is his natural family. the family is the most natural place for a child to develop and always will be. a mother and father are the most important people in a child's life. this is also true for the poorest families and for immigrant families. instead of tearing children away from their families, we should think about how to support parents and families in their mutual responsibility. in conclusion, i regret that this report is completely silent on the role of the father of the child. even in immigrant families, the mother and father are different but complementary. we shouldn't support the mother without doing the same for the father of the family. i'm not here to promote anything but the universal declaration of human rights. this expressly presupposes the right of the child to live in the family and the right of parents to choose the education they consider appropriate for their child. immigrant families have that right, too.
in writing. − i voted with the epp-ed against the non-discrimination directive because of its negative consequences for eu citizens. the left-wing majority has shown today that the european institutions do not want to reduce the bureaucracy paid for by citizens' taxes. the resolution provides evidence that the eu wants to extend the rules to all areas of citizens' lives in the member states. it's a bad sign. however, this resolution has no impact on the legislative process. until the council has to decide unanimously. i'm against discrimination of any kind. the directive was originally intended to combat discrimination against the disabled and the elderly. i've always been committed to protecting these people. but muddy waters are the best fishing grounds, and this directive reminds me of that. the lobby has taken a hostage to real discrimination by adding sexual orientation, religion or belief. these forms of discrimination have never been defined in any eu document. the consequences can be dramatic. no one can define the content of the wording of sexual orientation and discrimination on its basis. this is a potential danger for the interpretation of the directive. non-discrimination on grounds of 'belief' is also problematic. sects or political extremists can use this directive and the mass media cannot reject it. church schools can't choose professors based on their religion. insurance companies will not be able to take account of information to clarify insurance risks. the insurance premium will go up. in addition, there are a number of directives and international documents protecting the elderly and disabled which are not applied by the member states.
in writing. - the 20th century was marked by the crimes of totalitarian communist and nazi regimes, brutally executed on millions of innocent people. european integration was a direct response to the wars and terror inflicted by totalitarian regimes on the european continent. i am convinced that europe will never be united if it fails to unite its views with its history, which is why i voted for the resolution on the conscience of europe and totalitarian regimes. we must recognise communism and nazism as a common heritage and hold a panel discussion on all the crimes of totalitarian regimes of the past century. we owe this to our younger generation, which no longer grew up under these regimes and whose knowledge of totalitarianism of all kinds is alarmingly superficial and inadequate, even five years after the enlargement of 2004. many people today are still unaware of the regimes that terrorised their fellow citizens in central and eastern europe for over 40 years and separated them from democratic europe by the iron fence of the berlin wall. in 2009, we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the communist dictatorships in central and eastern europe and the fall of the berlin wall, and i believe that on this occasion all eu governments will declare 23 august as the european day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism. it will be enough to fulfil all the promises of totalitarian regimes and a strong and unequivocal guarantee that these events will never be repeated in europe.
in writing. − if you have condemning totalitarian regimes that have adopted the ideology of nazism or communism is only the first step towards condemning completely all forms of intolerance, fanaticism and ignorance that have repressed and continue to repress the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and peoples. any ideology that does not respect the dignity and life of the human person is reprehensible and fundamentally unacceptable. nazism and communism are ideologies that were inspired by older ideologies. these were formed in the 19th century and became established as the legal principles and principles of the european states of the time. these ideologies, such as militarism, chauvinistic nationalism, imperialism, radicalism, and later fascism, were inherently inhuman and pernicious and therefore deserved explicit condemnation, as did the ideologies that emerged subsequently in the form of communism and nazism. this is especially true in these uncertain and extremely difficult times. let us not, then, allow new political currents to arise inspired by the same antihuman ideas that underlie nazism and communism. intolerance can only be fought with uncompromising, no-holds-barred measures, and we therefore call for the wording of the text "fight against totalitarianism" to be changed to "fight against all state regimes that have led to the suppression of human dignity, freedom and the exceptional nature of every individual".
in writing. − culture is an important element of the sustainable development of european regions, so the concept of development of each region must also include a cultural dimension. the strategy, which includes culture, creativity and the arts, contributes significantly to improving the quality of life of people in both urban and rural areas. in the relatively small space represented by my country, slovenia, we have diverse but internally differentiated cultural regions. the cultural traditions that have developed over the centuries here are characterised by an extraordinary diversity of forms, types and variants of folk culture. for example, in my region of stara lubovina in northeastern slovenia, you can find slovene, german, rusyn, goral and roma cultures. each municipality organises its own cultural festivals every year, which attract a large number of visitors to our region. in the diversity of costumes, songs and dances, the partnership between europe's regions is deepening. cultural projects are based on civil society initiatives and deserve the attention and main support of the european commission. unfortunately, funding for cultural projects is declining with each passing year, so local authorities have a serious problem with maintaining these admirable and unique cultural traditions. i am convinced that the commission should present a green paper with a possible range of measures to support cultural activities aimed at strengthening the cultural development of european regions, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of culture in the development of european regions.
before i address some aspects of this report, let me thank rapporteur ţicău and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation in the drafting of this report. it was in my interest, as well as in that of my political group, that this report should provide a good basis for an early final agreement between the european commission, the european council and parliament in favour of pragmatic measures to improve the energy performance of buildings in the member states. in this context, i must say that i have been critical of some of the proposals, which represent unnecessary bureaucratic measures and also overly ambitious binding targets for individual member states, and which would ultimately represent serious barriers to the practical implementation of the necessary projects. an important aspect of this report is the agreement on a single harmonised methodology for calculating cost-optimal energy efficiency, on the basis of which member states will set their minimum standards, while also respecting regional climate differences. finally, i would also like to mention the aspects of financial support that are necessary for the implementation of energy efficiency measures in individual member states. i support the proposal which envisages the establishment of a european fund in cooperation with the european investment bank, which would create the conditions for generating financial resources for the creation of national or regional funds through the so-called leverage effect. i also welcome the proposal which should stimulate a better use of the structural funds to improve energy efficiency in individual member states. in conclusion, let me highlight a very important fact concerning the early and consistent introduction of energy efficiency measures in individual member states. recovery of the energy efficiency of buildings sector except for a significant reduction...
in writing. the price and reliability of energy supply are key factors not only for the eu's competitiveness but also for the well-being of its citizens. for this reason, the ep has put the consumer at the centre of its attention in its third energy package. to help consumers benefit from this important piece of legislation, the ep has revised and improved the energy performance of buildings directive, which accounts for around 40% of total eu energy consumption. designers and building inspectors will receive appropriate guidance through this directive. the cost-optimal calculation methodology and the determination of minimum efficiency requirements for the structural elements of the building envelope and technical building systems and their application in new and existing buildings are of great importance to the treasures. a significant element of the recast directive is the targets for net zero energy buildings. i welcome the establishment of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund to support the implementation of this directive. so far, limited use of structural funds for energy efficiency in buildings has only been allowed in the new eu-12. this option will now be extended to all member states. at the same time, the maximum share of erdf funds for such projects will be increased from 3% to 15%. it is essential for the successful implementation of the directive that member states consult representatives of local and regional authorities as well as consumer protection associations on all aspects arising from the directive.
the reporter. - in recent years, the dignity and mission of women have taken on a new dimension. this is particularly evident in the community's horizontal policies defined in the lisbon strategy, demographic challenges and reconciliation of family and working life, as well as in the fight against violence against women and trafficking in human beings. the report on the integrated approach between women and men in the work of parliamentary committees and delegations is part of the regular reports of the femm committee, which i have the honour to present to this parliament twice during the legislative period. while some welcome the increase in the representation of women in the european parliament, the femm committee regrets that women are still under-represented in the senior positions of parliament's bodies. at dg level, women are still underrepresented. we encourage the creation of networks of secretariat, committee and delegation officials specifically trained in this area, with a view to regularly exchanging best practice. the report calls on the general secretariat to continue to implement an integrated strategy aimed at reconciling family and working life and facilitating the career progression of women officials. the report highlights that an integrated approach to equality represents a positive development for both women and men. it stresses that the demand for equality between women and men must be expressed in a practical approach that does not pit women and men against each other. the committee on women's rights underlines the need for both committees and delegations to have the appropriate tools for optimal knowledge of the integrated approach to equality. gender-disaggregated indicators, data and statistics are needed, as is the need to allocate budgetary resources in terms of gender equality. we call on the political groups to take account of a balanced gender mix in the appointment of persons to senior positions. the report on an integrated approach to equality between women and men is the result of the cooperation of the parliamentary committees with the committee on women's rights and gender equality. as chair of the femm committee and rapporteur, i would like to thank you sincerely for this work. i would like to thank in particular the colleagues in the committees who were responsible for this work, which was unanimously accepted by the committee and for which i have great respect. the committee has developed a new methodological model which allows the work of each parliamentary committee to be evaluated. the model is described in detail in the explanatory memorandum. the evaluation would certainly have a higher dissemination value if all the european parliament's committees and delegations had replied. the debate resulted in the adoption of a number of amendments and reinforced the weight of this report. i appreciate that this report has been produced on the basis of a pluralistic parliamentary debate and has underlined the importance of this subject. in the context of the european elections, i would like to stress the importance of voters, and especially female voters, making every effort to ensure that women are represented at the european parliament level in the largest possible number.
in writing. women represent 52% of the european population. the task for us women active in politics is to convince, especially the voters, that the participation of women in european politics is also important for future generations and for the good functioning of democratic systems. i believe that the representation of women in politics should not be based on the introduction of mandatory quotas that set a minimum of women elected, but on the ability of women politicians to seek, adopt and promote recommendations that help women solve their current problems. as a member of the committee on women's rights, i have spoken many times on the ground about the impulses i have received from meetings with women. i consider the inclusion of childcare in retirement and more nurseries and kindergartens to be particularly important in reconciling family and working life. i am convinced that the politician, based on her own experience of motherhood and family life, understands women's problems best. the report by ms anna záborska on an integrated approach to gender equality in the work of committees and delegations is a testimony to the fact that the committee on women's rights has been extremely active in the ep. it adopted a number of reports and opinions that would have deserved more attention from the other ep committees. for this reason too, the number of women meps should be increased from one third to one half.
the rapporteur of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, consulted. − as rapporteur for the femm committee, i would like to thank my colleague mr bowis for his close cooperation and repeated discussions in the preparation of this report. at the same time, i wish him well. the report directly touches on patients' rights and the european legislator must ensure that equality in healthcare provision for women and men is fully applied. any discrimination on grounds of sex by health institutions, insurance companies or public officials is unacceptable. the threat of the proposed system is that cross-border healthcare, and thus quasi-priority care, will be given priority to citizens who are better off financially. one solution to this situation is the potential offered by interregional cooperation. cross-border regional contracts between financial institutions and healthcare facilities could help align patient requirements, the continuity of public finances, but above all the priority of the state to keep the health of its citizens good.
for the ppe-de group. at present, there are many differences in national requirements for construction products and their incorporation into buildings. as the construction sector is one of the sectors where the principle of mutual recognition is most seriously violated, i welcome the proposal for a regulation on the marketing of construction products. it is a complex piece of legislation, which aims to update the 20-year-old construction products directive and several implementing regulations. this regulation introduces changes in the conditions for drawing up the declaration of conformity, harmonises legal terminology and defines exemptions for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is my understanding that the manufacturers of building materials have a strong interest in the ce marking. in addition, the administration would be greatly simplified for exporters and importers, and the ce marking has value also from a marketing point of view. for example, lime, cement and brick manufacturers are already benefiting from the convenience of the ce marking. in the construction sector, the ce marking does not indicate safety and national labels do not provide added value for users. they are rather a barrier to the internal market. national labels do not mean that additional product characteristics have been tested, nor do they say anything about the quality of construction products. yet, manufacturers often have to pay for the tests and the opportunity to label their products with a national brand. i have no objection to voluntary labels which are intended to test the qualitative characteristics of a product, such as eco design. i believe that our aim must be to strengthen the ce marking and the obligation to use it. commissioner verheugen, i welcome your position on the use of national trade marks for construction products, and i support the commission's original proposal as shadow rapporteur. harmonised standards are the most effective and appropriate tool for manufacturers in the construction products market, and i am therefore proud that a framework for the financing of european standardisation has been prepared by me in the european parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs neris, mrs fourta, mrs rühle and their teams for their excellent cooperation, as well as my colleagues den dover, malcolm harbour, andreas schwab and our colleague teresa pinto de rezende for a great piece of work. i also thank my colleagues from the commission and the czech presidency for their helpful and constructive approach. i wish this legislature great success.
i would like to thank mr pöttering very sincerely for accepting my request and for including this item among the urgent resolutions of this sitting. a woman's dignity is part of her personality. it must be respected in the marriage and family, and it should be part of the culture of every society. young women must be able to make their own decisions freely and autonomously. we cannot accept the current situation in afghanistan. discrimination against women is a violation of fundamental human rights, a humiliation of women and a destruction of their personality. our policy must be conceptual, but clear. we cannot allow president hamid karzai to speak in the european parliament on the one hand and allow laws to be passed in his country that violate fundamental human rights on the other.
for the ppe-de group. my group, the epp-ed, welcomes the results of today's vote on the catherine neris report on the proposal for a regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the placing of construction products on the market. an agreement at first reading with the council was not possible because some member states did not agree to the obligation to draw up a declaration of conformity. today's vote sets out the european parliament's position on politically sensitive issues, notably the ce marking, which could persuade the council to reach a common position and subsequently an agreement with the european parliament and the commission at second reading. my epp-ed group, in agreement with the pse, alde and greens groups, supported only technical improvements to the text and, with additional amendments, we have brought the text voted in the imco committee closer to the council's working text. the epp-ed did not support amendments nos 17 and 54 voted in committee because it agreed with the commission proposal we oppose the introduction of national labels as they are rather barriers to the internal market and we agree that member states should remove all national references to demonstrate conformity other than the ce marking. i am pleased that commissioner verheugen made this very clear in yesterday's debate. i wish this legislature success.
this year's 1 may marked the fifth anniversary of slovakia's accession to the eu. on this day, various activities took place to take stock of our activities in the european union. i was at the celebration on the slovak-polish border at the church-leluchov border bridge. this symbolic bridge, built with eu pre-accession funds, connected slovak and polish border towns and started cooperation between people on both sides of the border. after slovakia and poland joined the schengen area, border controls were removed in december 2007, and with them administrative barriers that made life and cooperation more difficult for citizens. today we are witnessing many successful projects, funded by eu structural funds, helping to achieve sustainable development in this area. mr president, i would like to express my great joy and gratitude that slovakia, together with its neighbours, belongs to the eu. i am delighted to have been able to participate in the writing of this successful chapter in the history of the eu in this parliamentary term as one of the 14 members representing slovakia.
commissioner, i would like to join those who thank you for your active and immediate response to this case. given globalization and the high migration of tourists, travelers and people, there is no place in the world today where it can be assumed that the disease will not occur. we can already see this from cases that have appeared in destinations far from mexico, such as new zealand, australia, european countries, and africa. despite the subsidiarity of health care, it is infectious diseases that have no borders and that force us to take collective action. they cannot be dealt with within the framework of national options alone. solidarity is also given its word here. the slovak republic is also sufficiently prepared for the possible spread of influenza infection in a larger epidemic, perhaps even just because of the previous threat of avian influenza. we have 700,000 tamiflu units in the state's supply chain for 5 million people, and i have to say that, perhaps because of the earlier threat of avian flu, the population is also certainly well prepared. in an epidemic, public awareness is very important, because you can say that where there is no information, there is actually valid misinformation. we see this from some african countries, where in egypt, this particular threat of swine flu epidemic, which is thought to have spread from pigs, means that 300,000 to 400,000 pigs are being displaced. but in this case we should perhaps show our solidarity in another direction, and that is the direction for travel agencies which had destinations to these areas, where now people do not really go on holiday, but only really in cases of necessity. and since we have eurolat, we should also think about supporting mexico, where it is estimated that this disease will reduce gdp by as much as 4 to 5 percent from where it is now.
i congratulate mrs astrid lulling and mrs estrela on their reports and i firmly believe that these reports will help many families and eliminate discrimination both in the field of entrepreneurship and in the field of maternity support. many women help their husbands in business and the current social security arrangements have not provided any protection for them. i support the idea that within the framework of a so-called family business, assisting spouses should be able to enjoy the same level of protection as self-employed persons. of course, it must not be a fictitious job, but a job that is part of the company's work marches. and the reward for this assistance should be proportionate to the work done. i agree with the applicant that, contrary to the commission's proposal, we supported the right of the assisting spouse to be registered as self-employed in the corresponding social security schemes and thus to have the costs of sickness, old age and invalidity covered, rather than the voluntary basis of registration. the proposal for this directive is of great importance precisely in order to eliminate discrimination against women who help their husbands in business and who, in the event of illness, maternity or old age, are left without means, which makes them dependent or very vulnerable persons. these situations are often particularly pronounced in new member states where self-employment does not yet have well-functioning algorithms.
the european people's party's core value is the family. obviously, we're all aware that there's a demographic crisis. it's less talked about these days, but its consequences are at least as severe as the economic crisis. in this context, the safety regulations applicable to mothers deserve particular attention. the proposal for a directive is nevertheless divided by the european public and by parliament. it is not wise to extend the safety regulations that apply only to pregnant women and nursing mothers to fathers, since their safety at work by becoming a nun does not require any changes. if we accept that the legal basis of the legislation extends to article 137 of the treaty and extend the scope of the legislation to parental leave, two provisions would apply simultaneously to parental leave, including paternity leave. if we asked the social partners to agree on the directive on parental leave, as commissioner spidla has said, why are we trying to prejudge what the agreement should be? the laws and practices of the member states differ to such an extent that the amendment of the directive requires a great deal of attention. it would not be right for parliament to go into this matter like an elephant in a china shop. a poorly formulated defence can, in certain circumstances, turn against the employment of young women, as they become a more expensive labour force than their male counterparts.
motherhood is the greatest miracle god has given to a woman. motherhood cannot discriminate against women, but must on the contrary give them social value during their active life and in old age. but we must be realistic, for well-meaning suggestions can sometimes be problematic. the member states of the european union have different social systems, the scandinavian countries have already made progress on this issue, the new eu-12 has a long way to go, so it will probably be very difficult to find harmonised rules that could be implemented across the eu. although mrs estel's report brings many positive changes to the draft directive, there are also a number of problematic points which, in my view, do not belong in this report and need to be excluded from it, as has already been mentioned by commissioner spidla. the amendments tabled by our group on behalf of the ppe-de amend certain points, such as the length and amount of the maternity allowance and its extension in the event of premature or multiple births or breastfeeding, working time for breastfeeding, and the rights of employees in relation to the return of women to work after maternity leave. i hope these amendments will be voted on.
after the initial hopes of reaching agreement on the revision of the working time directive, it is truly regrettable that this has not happened. this is not the best news for our voters ahead of the election for at least two reasons. firstly, an interesting and unexpected phenomenon is taking place in our new member states. some investors, especially from east asian countries, are not only seeking to introduce an east asian work ethic, against which workers rightly demand protection, but a new phenomenon has emerged in the labor market: the desire to replace a domestic workforce with an east asian one, accustomed to a different work culture and unlimited hours. in the context of the ongoing crisis, with unemployment rising, the asymmetry of the employer-employee relationship has become even more apparent. the limitation of working time is therefore at the very least necessary, even when the need for freedom of the employee is recognised. the second problem that has remained unresolved and has major implications for new countries is the determination of the calculation of standby time. under the circumstances, there's nothing left but opt-out, which we wanted to prevent, but without it, basic care would be uncertain. madam president, i don't want to find a culprit, but i do want to believe that in the new term we will find a satisfactory solution to these pressing problems.
the reporter. − in my meetings with the secretary-general of the european parliament, klaus welle, i was very attentive from the outset to his approach to problem-solving. i appreciate his efforts to optimise the work of the european parliament's administration, an institution which employs 6 000 people. i also felt the same interest and positive attitude in my discussions with the representatives of the various directorates-general of the european parliament. in some areas, we have already identified gaps and suggested improvements. as an example of a positive solution, i mention the dg's action plan for the bureau on the secure service, which can bring financial savings in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg of eur 2.6 million per year without negative impacts on safety and security. most of the budget lines and major projects in the european parliament's budget are multiannual. i am convinced that if we improve medium-term budget planning and increase its transparency, we can be effective. the report which the committee on budgets has adopted and which i am presenting today shows, ladies and gentlemen, that we are willing to leave more room for manoeuvre to the newly elected parliament. if we have found reserves in the committee on budgets or have cut certain items, we have not done so at this stage of preparation to show a hard hand or to fight against each other: the administration and the bureau on the one hand, the committee on budgets on the other. our common goal is to gain a qualified and comprehensive view of matters and to make the right decisions on the basis of it. in the area of staff planning, the committee on budgets takes note of the proposals and amendments to the service structures and staff plans translated by the bureau. having an overview of all the requirements that emerge from the analyses, the committee will be willing to give careful consideration to the whole package of requirements. last week i met with the state secretary of the ministry of finance of the kingdom of sweden, hans lindblad, who will be representing the swedish presidency of the european union in the financial field, and with other representatives of the permanent representation in brussels and the ministry of finance of sweden. i have been promised a close cooperation aimed at rationalising the budget of the european institutions. the swedish presidency's representatives place particular emphasis on building policy, which is also one of our priorities. expenditure on the purchase and rental of buildings is one of the main components of the administrative expenditure of the institutions of the european union. just over three years ago, the total area used by the institutions exceeded 2 million m2. we therefore agreed that we needed a common building policy, better interinstitutional cooperation, better coordination of planning, a reassessment of the concentration of office space in certain areas, a better use of public tenders. i would therefore like to commend the secretary-general for his commitment to present very quickly in the new parliamentary term a draft medium-term strategic plan for buildings, so that it is available to members before the first reading in the autumn and so that they can adopt budgetary decisions. in the area of improving cooperation between european institutions, we can achieve annual savings of millions of euros. i believe that, in cooperation with the interinstitutional working group on multilingualism, we will be able to make better use of the available capacities in this area. next year we should have a study on the euramis translation tool, the full and automatic use of which is likely to revolutionize the translation field and translation cooperation. i am convinced that this instrument will, within two years, bring greater efficiency and savings of financial resources and reduce dependence on external services.
the reporter. - i would like to thank both colleagues for their views at the end of today's debate. i would also like to thank the representatives of all the institutions, including the european parliament, with whom we have had dozens of negotiations over the last three months on the preparation of their budgets. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr boge, the shadow rapporteur and political group coordinator, as well as my colleagues, advisers and staff of the committee on budgets, with whom we have had most of the negotiations. thanks to all of you, we have been able to find a common path and a common solution in most cases. the european parliament elections in early june have reduced our time to prepare and discuss budget estimates, but also our time to seek compromises. nevertheless, we were able to find them and i can already say that the result of our cooperation will have a positive impact on the results of the european parliament's work. in preparing the 2010 budget, we are likely to see the biggest changes to the structure of the european parliament in the last 10 to 12 years. this is a great challenge for the leadership of the european parliament, but also for all of us. i hope that by the end of the year we will be able to say that together we have succeeded in setting out on the road to greater efficiency in the work of the european parliament, but also in the other european institutions.
madam president, this final proposal on seal hunting is wholly unacceptable as it grossly interferes with other countries’ affairs. yet these countries play by the rules and all they are trying to achieve is to manage natural resources and provide employment for their people. this proposal destroys people’s lives and their communities in remote regions. it destroys business opportunities on both sides of the atlantic and seriously harms good relations with important trade and strategic global partners. furthermore this proposal violates wto rules. as members of parliament we have a duty to protect people and create an environment for employment opportunities. with this ban we are failing in both areas. slapping a ban on overpopulated seals is madness and a complete failure of our values. i say to all meps: please stop this disaster and vote against this proposal.
in writing. the level of consumer protection varies between member states. during the imco committee hearings, representatives of non-profit organisations focusing on consumer protection in the old member states did not mention financial problems. consumers often use the services of consumer organisations for a fee before making their consumer decisions. this creates a better opportunity for these organisations to be independent. the consumer organisations in slovakia received eur 152 500 for their activities. i'm afraid that ridiculous amount of money will discourage consumer organizations from standing up for consumer rights. being a consumer is becoming increasingly complex and complex in the wake of the enlargement of the union. consumers are directly concerned by a range of issues, from the safety of the products they buy, to trust in the store, to online shopping and advertising. since many of these problems transcend national boundaries, we need harmonized legislation, intensive and preventive education, which will give us the confidence to avoid becoming a plaything for corporate fireballs. for this reason, consumers should be able to use portals that provide them with new information, such as rapex on dangerous products, solvit on the internal market, dolceta on financial education and many others. the european consumer centre and the european consumer diary can be of great help to them. commissioner, on behalf of the commission, please call on the new member states in particular not to undermine consumer protection by not providing sufficient support to consumer organisations.
mr president, distinguished members of parliament and guests. the decision of the european parliament and the council to move a €5 billion package of unused funds from 2008 to 2009 and to use it both as a stimulus package to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and as a €4 billion package to address some bottlenecks in europe's energy system is an exceptional but effective decision. on the other hand, mr turmes's statement, particularly as regards the management of the fund, was also true on many points. i think it is important that member state governments respond flexibly and, as far as possible, use the full amount of the allocation in 2009/2010 effectively and efficiently. the gas supply crisis following the russia-ukraine dispute earlier this year has shown how vulnerable a large part of europe is in times of crisis. the measures implemented and financed by this package were therefore intended to help prevent a recurrence of this crisis.
mr president, distinguished members of parliament and guests. i consider last year's decision on the need to prudently regulate the financial system and to increase its stability to be one of the best political moves of the european parliament in this term of office. it's a pity it didn't come three years earlier. as a practical outcome, the proposed capital requirements directive also fits into this framework. the financial crisis has highlighted shortcomings in supervisory mechanisms, including consolidated supervision. i agree that the starting point for solving the problem could be the creation of a decentralised european banking supervisory system based on the model of the european central banks. i also support stricter securitisation rules. originators should bear a certain percentage of the risk arising from the exposure and investors should be obliged to provide in-depth audits. it's the only way we're gonna get through this.
in writing. − report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd)
i want to draw attention to the facts regarding cuba as a person who knows the situation in cuba well. i consider it essential to retain articles 84 and 96 in the report. in article 84, the european parliament reaffirms its position with regard to the cuban winners of the sakharov prize, oswald payá sardiñas and the women's group damas de blanco. article 96 welcomes the opening of a human rights dialogue with latin american countries and calls for the release of political prisoners and respect for human rights. i also want to point out that the report table contains only two cases of human rights violations in cuba, and dozens more could be added. for example, the victim of the "black spring", librado linares, 49, husband of one of the women of the damas de blanco group, suffers from many diseases in prison, including an eye infection that has caused him to lose sight in one eye and the other eye. this man was not given any medical care in prison.
ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say that the lisbon treaty is the best thing that any member state of the european union of 27 would have wished for, but it is the best thing on which agreement has been reached within the european union of 27. so far, all the treaties have been treaties of the european 15, and i would therefore like to underline the political message of the lisbon treaty, which puts the european 27 on a single starting line, so that in the future we will no longer divide the european union into new and old member states. the european parliament has shown that it can take action decisions, so it is right that the treaty of lisbon gives more power to the european parliament, the representatives elected by the european citizens. if the lisbon treaty enters into force in all eu countries, one of the changes will be the end of the current form of the current rotating presidency of the eu council. more importantly, the european union will have a common energy policy, which has proved necessary especially during the gas crisis. i welcome the decision of the czech senate to approve the treaty of lisbon today. it is a very important signal from the czech parliament during the czech presidency of the european union.
the report by ms stavreva is one of the three reports that have been included in the joint package of eur 5 billion. in the context of the economic crisis, we see that we lack funding for investment projects in the energy sector and for rural development, which has been hit hardest by the consequences of the economic crisis. i welcome the european parliament's vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation under the economic recovery plan for europe, which allocates eur 1.5 billion to all member states through the european agricultural fund for rural development. rural areas may implement projects aimed at developing broadband internet connectivity. soil plays a central role in the agricultural sector. the use and management of agricultural land is of particular importance in addressing the new challenges posed by climate change, renewable energy sources, water scarcity and biodiversity. i call on the member states to act swiftly and without delay to adapt their national plans, to inform in a timely, detailed and transparent manner of new legislative provisions, and to adopt accelerated and simplified procedures both for expenditure and for its reporting.
in writing. - articles 84 to 96 deal with the respect for human rights in cuba. it should be noted that, despite international pressure, there is a continuing pattern of intimidation, interrogation and sophisticated violence against women in white, which continued in 2008. a few weeks ago, the regime tried everything to prevent them from protesting peacefully on the 6th anniversary of their husbands' imprisonment. the event was held in bratislava on 28 april 2009 in solidarity with the ladies in white and their husbands. of the 75 activists jailed six years ago, for whom the eu has also made a clear statement, 54 remain in prison. only if we follow their fate will we be able to get out of prison before they become human trash. let us not forget that we have just marked the 20th anniversary of the fall of communism in the countries of central and eastern europe. what we can do for the cuban prisoners and their families now is to include paragraphs about human rights abuses in cuba in the text of the administration. i cannot help but recall amendment no. 2, which strongly condemns pope benedict xvi. this proposal is a slap in the face to the head of the catholic church. moreover, he puts his statements on the same level as the crimes committed in countries where the death penalty is abused, people are tortured and killed for freedom of expression and the most basic human rights are not respected. we reject this amendment.
poverty is always the breeding ground for totalitarian leaders who choose to be saviors and save their people. but in reality, they do so for their own benefit. first of all, hugo chávez wasn't talking about socialism, he was talking about the right to a better world. but then he started talking about socialism. his opponents were not invited to cooperate and became his arch enemies, later political prisoners. then there was a crackdown on media freedom, and those who didn't play cards were canceled. one-sided intelligence, the leader-saviour, the violation of human rights, the lack of freedom, simply totalitarianism. the case of manuel rosales only confirms my words. not only hugo chávez is fishing in these waters, but so are castro's gravediggers, lukashenko and the like. i thank all my colleagues for the fact that, from the european parliament and through these thursday afternoons during the european parliament's plenary sessions, we have been able to send a clear signal to the whole world that the european parliament will never tolerate human rights violations in the world. madam president, dear roddy, thank you for chairing our meetings in the european parliament, for your cooperation and for your personal friendship.
your honour, hungary and hungarian minorities are constantly raising the issue of national minorities. by using half-truths, often lies, they try to manipulate european public opinion to their advantage. what is the truth? in the last 80 years, as europe watches in silence, ethnic minorities have been all but eliminated in hungary. the slovak minority was also decimated from three thousand to ten thousand members. the hungarian minority in the surrounding countries, including slovakia, has been preserved. in the past two years, six roma citizens have been murdered in hungary, and dozens have been seriously injured. attacks against jews are emerging, and other forms of extremism are on the rise, even beyond hungary's borders. this aggression, which is not adequately handled in hungary, must be condemned. the european institutions should deal with these manifestations of extremism more vigorously.
at the beginning of the new term of office, we should be aware of our shared responsibility for the peaceful development of the european continent, so as to ensure the peaceful and prosperous lives of our citizens. to convince them that we're here for them, to serve them. we should be aware of that at all times. even when there are problems between two members of our family. a proper partnership dialogue to find a sensible solution is the european way of dealing with this. not ignoring the partner and presenting these problems on the ground of european institutions, including our own. mutual, ongoing, rational dialogue is also a way to take the breeding ground away from extremists on all sides of the border, and thereby eliminate or significantly limit their future potentially dangerous activities in the embryo.
at the last sitting of parliament, but also at this one, we heard the speeches of many hungarian members who criticised the slovak language law. i want to say at the same time that they sent you and all of you letters with many arguments, where i can say quite safely that most of these arguments are misinterpretations, fabrications and there are also deliberate lies. the slovak language law fully respects all human rights issues, including the rights to protect minority languages. i think it is a very dangerous policy that hungarian mps are directly and directly provoking extremism itself, whether in hungary or in the surrounding countries. i think they should realize that this is a very dangerous policy, and as we heard them today, they should stop making these stories up.
mr president, as one of the rapporteurs on the fta with south korea and a strong fta protagonist, i am hoping for a balanced and level-playing-field agreement that benefits both sides – a true win-win situation. one of our core industries is not really happy with the current status of negotiations, and they have many friends in their camp, including some member states, industries and meps. they all see the playing field unfairly tilted to benefit south korea in this agreement. the european commission and the european council should look hard into areas of friction, namely the ddb safeguard clause, non-tariff barriers and rules of origin. if some progress could be achieved to bring more satisfaction to the eu car industry, then employment levels, strong gdp and expected standard of living would really benefit and be preserved. however, a level playing field will not be a disadvantage. a strong precedent may be established for other ftas waiting in line and coming up soon in the near future. it is clear to me that this agreement overall brings other benefits to the eu and to some of the eu’s different industries. in the small picture there will always be some winners and losers: it is the nature of any bilateral agreement. in the big picture we could be close to real balance. but, with such a crucial industry as the automobile industry in a fairly unhappy mode, there is a need to try for more. only when achieving some additional progress can we speak of a truly balanced fta that is acceptable and has a real and positive impact as a precedent for future ftas.
commissioner, the matter we are discussing is of the utmost importance and urgency. not only because the european union needs to have a clear vision of development policy at this time, but also because it needs to be explained clearly and intelligibly to our fellow citizens. the amount of development aid can now, more than ever, be affected by illegal migration, unrest, epidemics and - as the international monetary fund points out - also by the increase in private sector debt in developing countries. i want to emphasise the regular checks on finances by both donors and recipients of funds. we live in our own countries and hear the reservations about the development policy of the european union. the consensus in the european parliament, which mr michel mentioned, is not always as evident in the countries of the european union. only the efficiency and transparency of development aid can convince of its justification and prevent its reduction.
the reporter. - mr president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, i am sure we can all agree that when drawing up the european parliament's budget we must concentrate on our main task, which is the legislative work. the unrelated things need to be cut out of the budget as much as possible. the final shape of this budget will be the subject of conciliation between the presidency of the european parliament and the committee on budgets. i would like to thank the representatives of the political groups. at the budget committee meeting yesterday, they supported proposals for budget cuts and steps that lead to better use of financial resources. we still see many shortcomings that make us not quite economical with resources. as an example, let me give you the security of these buildings where we are meeting today. you know very well that we travel to strasbourg for four days a month. yet, not long ago, both entrances were guarded 365 days a year. the new secretary-general of the european parliament and his colleagues have figured it out and taken steps that will save more than €2 million every year. another example is the court's analysis of translations. lack of planning, lack of communication or no communication about available translation capacities prevents their effective use. the institution that is to provide the translation often orders external translators automatically and does not even check whether there are available free capacities within the institutions. that is why we propose that the budgets of the individual institutions should reserve 5% of the appropriations for translation. we will release this reserve when they demonstrate that they have made the best use of the capacity within the institutions. in the field of translation alone, we can save about eur 11 million a year. there are many similar examples. most of them have a common denominator: we make little use of independent analysis of resource use and work organisation. i hope that the political will shown by the representatives of the various political groups at the budget committee meeting yesterday will bear fruit. one of the main components of the administrative expenditure of the institutions of the european union is expenditure on the purchase, maintenance and rental of buildings. in the past, in various cases, institutions have bought or leased assets in a not entirely economic way. according to the court, the institutions do not cooperate in this area, or even evaluate their own policies. we have therefore asked the european parliament's administration to draw up a medium-term strategy paper on buildings. we wanted to take the relevant decisions in this area at first reading. we need to develop a common policy on buildings and to establish better cooperation in this area, not only in the european parliament but also in all the institutions. i am glad that the council has made this objective its priority, as we have, and i want to thank you, mr secretary of state, for that.
i would like to speak on a subject that concerns not only me but also many people in the european union. our economies are going through a very difficult period, a period of crisis, the effects of which are felt especially by the so-called ordinary people. these people are afraid for their jobs, they are afraid for their existence, they are afraid for their children, and this is what creates a kind of breeding ground, this fear and this fear, for the rise of far-right extremism in the european union and in the member states. in the past, far-right extremists have hidden their faces behind various masks and hoods. today, however, they march through the squares and make public appearances to the media. not only that, but these same people who spread hatred against roma, against jews, against immigrants, against homosexuals, found political parties and, unfortunately, in this very complicated period, successfully run for national elections and for the european parliament. finally, it was not so long ago that we witnessed, here on the grounds of this democratic institution, here in the european parliament, the arrival and departure of some members in uniforms reminiscent of the fascist period of the second world war. i would therefore like to ask you, mr president, how you intend to take action in the future, from your office and the commission as an institution, against such a desecration of the european parliament's soil, but especially against the specific fight against extremism.
i think what you've presented here is a pretty ambitious plan that you want to present to the g20. but i am worried about the outcome of the g20 and the reality that will then be reflected in society, because the results that have reached the level of the countries in the european union are not yet tangible and visible. if mrs malmström has said that it is about the adequacy of the salaries of managers, then it must be said that all the data indicate that the sectors that we have supported financially and saved from, say, bankruptcy, are precisely where there is no adequacy of the remuneration of managers. nothing happened to the offshore either, it just didn't work. all of this is leading to much higher unemployment, we have a problem with small and medium-sized enterprises, and i think we should focus on maybe fewer topics in the future, but then really implement those topics.
the liberalisation of visa policy towards the western balkans is a politically, but also humanly highly sensitive issue for the citizens of these states and the region. we are now talking about montenegro, macedonia and serbia, which is very important in the historical context, but we should not introduce a kind of two-speed system in the western balkans for a long time and we should bring bosnia and herzegovina in particular back into this process as soon as possible, as well as albania, of course. the western balkans are geographically, culturally and historically closely linked to the european union, to our member states, and although very turbulent events have taken place in this part of the world only recently, it must be said that the reforms, as well as our expectations, are gradually being met, and that indeed the political representations of these states are making great efforts to meet our expectations. perhaps i should like to ask not only the council and the commission, but also us here in the european parliament, to support the representatives of the member states in this endeavour and to help them with the questions that have not yet been resolved. nor is it to be overlooked that the countries of the western balkans are of particular geopolitical importance to us for many reasons. as serbia and montenegro now have important domestic tasks which we all hope will be fulfilled soon, i would like to stress once again that it would be very appropriate to set a deadline as soon as possible for those countries which have now been excluded from the process, and i am thinking in particular of bosnia and herzegovina and albania.
lithuania has adopted a law that significantly regulates the protection of children and adolescents from outside influences of information that can seriously affect their further development. it is clear that social and family policy is a matter for the individual member states of the european union and therefore no european initiatives can condemn lithuania for it. the law in question does not violate any international human rights standards. i've studied the question, and it's true. i believe that, on the contrary, it reinforces the ways in which children are protected from being exposed to information or images that their own parents want to protect them from, and i stress that. i call for the principle of subsidiarity to be applied consistently, as ireland itself has claimed in the protocol to the treaty of lisbon. therefore, similar 'warnings to member states' become a serious precedent in such sensitive issues as the family.
in 2006, slovakia was condemned for asking for freedom of conscience. today, lithuania is facing this community because it wants to protect children from the sexualization of society. i consider this negotiation to be a manipulation of the charter of fundamental human rights, a text that is legally binding. this house ignores the legitimacy of the national parliament, which has twice voted for an uncritical law. this chamber seeks the opinion of the human rights agency. however, the commission does not have the power to review the effectiveness of national laws. i have a question: what might the irish be thinking ahead of the upcoming referendum? just that the time will soon come when they will be criticized in this chamber for their laws protecting family and life. i regret that in this honourable parliament we do not respect european values, we do not respect diversity and national culture, we do not respect the protection of children and the right of parents to educate them.
let me express my sorrow and deep concern at the events that took place in the russian federation in june of this year. i am appalled by the brutal murders of russian activists such as natalia estemirova and andrei kulagin and others who were committed to upholding human rights and who stood up for truth and justice. every effort should be made to apprehend and punish the killers. i welcome and support the measures that must be taken to clarify these murders. in august 2008, during the armed conflict between russia and georgia, the russian armed forces attacked populated areas and failed to protect the civilian population from violations of their rights by south ossetian militants in the territories de facto under russian control. it is necessary that the russian government show a clear stance that it will not tolerate human rights violations.
i assumed, or expect more such attacks on the slovak republic, because the institute of one-minute speeches is already somehow predestined for colleagues from hungary, or colleagues of hungarian nationality, to attack the slovak republic. i have to say that i am very sorry about that, because i expect the european parliament to really solve the problems that the european union has. we have on several occasions, including here in the european parliament, shook hands with our colleagues, whether they were from fidesz or from any other party, and wanted to discuss problems or open questions with them. we have done this with regard to the language law and i must say that i am very sorry, mr president, that none of my colleagues from hungary or of hungarian nationality responded to our offer and even my colleagues from the smk (which is a party from the slovak republic) preferred to leave such a meeting when we wanted to discuss it. i also sent a link to the website of the national council of the slovak republic, where you can read the full text of this law, and this law in no way threatens the rights of national minorities to use their own language.
the hungarian delegation is misleading european public opinion with many lies: for example, that citizens can be fined for using a minority language, that doctors of hungarian nationality will be allowed to practice only in the state slovak language, or that religious services will also be possible only in the state language. we've just heard from a hungarian colleague nonsense about a policeman who can't answer in hungarian or english to a tourist. none of this is true. on the contrary, the amendment to the law extends the possibilities of using the languages of national minorities compared to the previous situation. the novel does not interfere with private communication of citizens and does not allow fines to be imposed on individuals. the compliance of the amendment with international standards was confirmed by the european authorities for minorities osce high commissioner knut vollebæk and european commissioner leonard orban. i think the hungarian community is using this case to cover up the growing extremism and murders of roma in hungary.
at the last parliamentary session and now, there was a lot of talk about the slovak language law. it's not by accident. this law, contrary to all claims, restricts the use of minority languages, even though it allows it in a very small area. it's not that we're avoiding debate, either, because if you try to agree on this topic in five minutes in front of 10 journalists, you're likely to fail. i want to draw your attention to the fact that this law is badly worded, it is maliciously worded, it creates another legal uncertainty, because in 2 days the ministry of culture gives 3 different interpretations to certain paragraphs of the law. it's scaring people. we already know of several cases where employers instruct employees to use the slovak language. i'm so sorry we have to bring this up. hopefully, the lisbon treaty will give us the opportunity to deal with human rights, minority rights, in a meaningful way.
for group s-d. criminal justice policy and the safeguarding of the fundamental human rights of the parties to criminal proceedings is one of the priorities of the european community. the draft framework decision, which was initiated by the czech presidency, provides a legal framework for the protection of the subjects of criminal proceedings and, in particular, for the reinforcement and observance of the principle of ne bis in idem. i therefore consider that the adoption of such a legislative proposal is necessary not only for the protection of the persons subject to criminal proceedings but also to strengthen the legal certainty of the citizens of the member states of the european union. the mechanism for resolving conflicts of jurisdiction should be such as to eliminate situations where several member states prosecute the same person for the same criminal offence. it would also avoid the possibility of multiple decisions being taken in the same case. the framework decision only imposes an obligation on member states to inform each other of the existence of parallel criminal proceedings, but does not provide for a comprehensive legal mechanism to deal with them. i see the weakness mainly in the vagueness of the legal text, which in most cases does not specify any fixed deadlines for the fulfilment of the obligations laid down. similarly, the position of eurojust is not clear and the potential that this institution could provide in resolving conflicts of jurisdiction is not being exploited. it is essential to place particular emphasis on the observance of the fundamental human rights of the subjects, that is to say the accused and the defendant, at all stages of the criminal proceedings, as well as on ensuring an adequate level of protection of personal data. it will be important to turn our attention next to the commission's legislative initiative 'transfer of proceedings in criminal matters', which seems to deal with this issue in a much more complete way. support for this proposal is also necessary in view of the practical problems of resolving jurisdictional disputes in criminal proceedings. the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats therefore supports this proposal, but insists on providing sufficient protection to the subjects of criminal proceedings and also on strengthening the positions of eurojust and making the whole mechanism more efficient.
mr. president, i have to go. it's commendable for a politician to want to gain as much advantage as possible for his country. we all do that with the best interests of our constituents in mind. however, the gain must not be at the expense of others and must not be the result of blackmail. we were all shocked by the tactics used by the czech president, vaclav klaus, to block the lisbon treaty. the politician, who started out as a reformer, has made demands that are unworthy of him and his country. i consider it unacceptable to link the signing of the treaty of lisbon to the inviolability of the beneš decrees. the beneš decrees of 1945 applied the principle of collective guilt, which is foreign to the european legal order, and deprived millions of innocent civilians of their citizenship and forcibly displaced them from their homelands simply because their mother tongue was german or hungarian. under our european legal system, we cannot support the violation of human rights, of personal freedom in any form. and that's what václav klaus is asking us to do.
for three and a half months, slovakia has been the subject of a brutal, discrediting campaign over an amendment to the law on the state language. in romania in july, epp vice-president orban said that hungarian foreign policy must address this issue as a serious case of 'casus belli', which translates as 'cause for war'. a week later, former hungarian ombudsman for national minorities jenö kaltenbach said that all minorities in hungary have reached the final point of loss of identity, their members do not control their language, do not know their own past. these words of the former hungarian ombudsman did not provoke any political or media discussion. the greater hungarian nationalists are not interested in the rights of minorities in hungary, but only the rights of hungarian minorities in other states. even innocent people living in the south of slovakia have thus become hostages of these nationalists and their dream of political reunification of the hungarian nation.
i would like to point out that the hungarian national team is trying to provoke slovakia. on august 21, 20 years ago, soviet and hungarian troops occupied the former czechoslovakia. on the same day that year, hungarian president sólyom, despite the reservations of three of the highest representatives of the slovak republic, was about to provocatively unveil a statue of the hungarian king in the mixed territory of slovakia. today he protests that he was denied entry to slovakia. last week, the chairman of hungary's most powerful political party, fidesz, mr orban, while visiting slovakia, called on the hungarian minority to take autonomy initiatives. he called for joint planning of the future of hungarians in the carpathian basin. it's a revival of the idea of a great hungary - a provocation that doesn't belong in modern europe. it is a dangerous game of fire and the european institutions should not ignore it.
the commission's coldness may also be due to the fact that it pays very little attention to our parliament and to the opinions of our parliament. so perhaps in the future our relations will warm up, and i believe that this situation is not very pleasant for the commissioner, as is this debate, because it seems that our position is the same, or at least the majority of it. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the creation of the schengen area has brought genuine freedom of movement to our citizens in the schengen area and has been, in my view, one of the greatest achievements in european history. but there is still much work to be done. the abolition of internal border controls requires full security and also trust between the different actors in their ability to fully implement the accompanying measures. this is why the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation mechanism is so important, and also to feel the support of the citizens of the member states. this agenda is very often used by far-right extremists who spread information that the schengen area actually allows various actors of criminal activity to penetrate into countries within the schengen area, and citizens of our countries quite rightly ask us how we want to prevent this in the future. the principle of interinstitutional coordination is also a very important point which the commission is suppressing rather than strengthening in its proposal, which is of course to the detriment of the matter, because as several speakers have already mentioned, we all believe that the treaty of lisbon will soon be in force and it would therefore be good if this context were already incorporated. we also see no reason why the european parliament should not receive all the relevant information in the annual report - unfortunately, the commission has not adopted this principle of democracy in its opinion either. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's opinion and will therefore be voting in favour of the commission's proposal, and we will insist that the codecision procedure be incorporated in it, that the whole principle be simplified and that the whole process be made transparent.
madam president, commissioner, in 2006, when the new member states were waiting to join schengen, we stated, and they have said, that the sis ii must work. it turns out that the system is not going to work. we were told that the floor was not strong enough to support the weight of the technical equipment and that if the portuguese presidency had not found a solution to operate the 'sis one for all' system then, the eight new member states would probably not have joined schengen until today. in the meantime, as we remember, new contracts had to be concluded, new money packages had to be localised for the construction of sis ii, while the operation of sis i+ had to be financed in the same way, so we are in a state of dual financing, and this is costing european taxpayers a lot of money. this is clearly a major investment in the security of european citizens, and unlike my colleague on the left, i believe that this can make a very big qualitative difference to european security. i'm curious about the delay, because one thing is that in 2001, from 2002 to 2007, they planned to build the system for five years. today we're talking about maybe ten years to recover. officer, an engineering system cannot have so many uncertainties that it would double the construction time. we know that the devil of technology can intervene, we know that public investment is delayed, but we have to ask the question, what is behind it? are not some countries, some member states deliberately delaying the deployment of sis ii? and what's the guarantee, just to finish the question, that the vis won't have the same story?
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the approval of the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg on the proposal for a council directive laying down the principles governing the organisation of veterinary checks on animals entering the community from third countries. the new directive clearly contributes to the transparency and better understanding of the extensive legislation in this area that has existed so far. the directive is limited to codifying legal acts without changing their substance. and since, in the context of a europe of citizens, the simplification and clarity of community law contribute to increasing legal certainty, i believe that the codification of the said directive is the right step towards the effective application of positive law. at the same time, i agree that harmonising the principles at community level will contribute not only to guaranteeing security of supply but also to ensuring the stabilisation of the internal market, where internal border controls have been abolished, and to protecting animals entering community territory.
the reporter. − right now, in a time of crisis, we need to show the public, but also ourselves, that we are using all resources to the maximum efficiency in achieving our policy objectives. most institutions base their budgets on previous years. what could be simpler than multiplying last year's budget by the inflation rate? but this budgeting method, if repeated year after year, can cause distortions, inaccuracies and inefficiencies in the use of resources. therefore, our aim is to achieve budgeting based on real needs. the budgetary requirements must correspond to the real needs for the performance of the tasks in each institution. every institution, every part of it, must make every effort to achieve savings. it can do this by better organising work, re-directing existing resources towards priorities, reducing red tape. in my previous speeches to the committee and to the plenary, i have mentioned many examples of how we have recently been able to uncover reserves. we will discover even more shortcomings and make the work of individual departments and institutions more efficient if we proceed systematically. the 2010 budget establishes such a system. colleagues who have served in the european parliament in the past remember that we have always tried to improve cooperation between the institutions. there have always been reserves here, many of which have even grown in recent years. we have a common pool of money. if everyone is self-centered and closed off from others, there is no communication and cooperation, and it is difficult to use resources efficiently. that is why we in the committee on budgets have agreed to introduce a horizontal reserve of 5% for external translations for all the institutions. how else can institutions be motivated to use primarily internal translation capacities and not to turn automatically to external services? our aim in all areas is to make available the spare capacity of each institution to the other institutions. one of the main components of the administrative expenditure of the institutions is expenditure on the purchase and rental of buildings. in 2005, the area of buildings used by the institutions in brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg exceeded 2 million m2. buildings were not always bought in the right place at the right time and at the least cost. the court has found that the institutions do not cooperate in this area, or even evaluate their own policies. if we're buying a new building and we don't have more than one alternative in our pocket, we can hardly get a bargain. we therefore expect the european parliament's bureau to present a responsible, long-term strategy for property and buildings by the end of this year, taking into account renovation needs and security costs. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to do our job responsibly and effectively, we need to have comprehensive information about the resources available to us. that is why i also stress the need to create a knowledge management system. with his help, our work will be coherent and effective. i expect the administration to present this project to the committee on budgets shortly. no expenditure relating to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon shall be included in the draft budget of any institution. when this treaty comes into force, we'll have to fully review the reorganization of existing resources before anyone can submit a request for additional funds. if the staff of any institution saves money as a result of the efficiency of their work, the budget committee will no longer have any problem in allowing these savings to be used for other priorities of the institution. on the other hand, if an institution saves money due to unforeseen events, this money should generally be returned to the taxpayer. i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgets who voted unanimously in favour of this proposal. i believe that the eu budgetary system must evolve to favour ingenuity and innovative solutions.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. - on behalf of the committee on equal opportunities, i would like to draw your attention to one question in the one minute i have. the european institute for gender equality and its funding. the institute was established in 2007 by a joint decision of the parliament in vilnius. one would think that the time that has elapsed has been sufficient for this institute to function since then. unfortunately, the situation is much more serious than that. the institute now has only one director and one assistant, and i would like to thank the committee on budgets and the rapporteur, mr surján, for taking into account the wisdom of the committee on equal opportunities in saying that the budget cannot be cut mechanically on the basis of this year's increase, because if we did that the institute would not be able to function in the future. not only must we ensure that the increased staff expenditure is covered in the budget for the coming year, but we must also set aside an amount for activity to enable the institute to fulfil its role.
the reporter. i would like to thank you for the debate in this chamber, but also for your cooperation in the committee on budgets, in the political groups, in conciliation proceedings. i would like to thank the secretary-general of the european parliament and all the representatives of the directorates-general of the european parliament; we have been working together since january, looking for the best solutions to help us use european citizens' funds efficiently. i thank the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators; in our discussions i felt that we were really looking for positive solutions. and it's thanks to you that we've found these solutions, and many of them are part of my report. i want to thank my advisors and the staff of the committee on budgets. the dozens of meetings we have had with representatives of all the institutions have helped us to develop a more objective view of the matter and, importantly, to find out where to look for solutions. i particularly appreciate the agreement from the conciliation procedure to carry out an organisational audit of the inlo directorate-general and the security service. the aim is to assess whether resources are being used in the best possible way. in the past, only the court of auditors has taken an external view of its work - and it has paid off. following the audit, the court reduced its administrative costs and achieved higher labour productivity. the committee on budgets has also worked constructively with the other institutions in the past. we have also worked together to find the best solutions for the budgets of the european institutions. we restored part of the original requirements which the council had reduced, as long as the institution's requirements were justified. i want to commend the budgeting approach of those institutions which are already setting their budgets not according to the inflation coefficient automatically but on the basis of real needs.
the main focus of the forthcoming council meeting will be to conclude and implement the ratification of the lisbon treaty. the process brought about by the lisbon treaty will strengthen the union from within, but also in a global context. strengthening the union's position is also closely linked to strengthening cooperation in the area of the current third pillar. the union will be more open, more efficient and more democratic. the main challenge and priority is to ensure fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as integrity and security in europe. the means to achieve these objectives shall be through full support, effective implementation and adequate respect for existing legislation and instruments, taking into account the protection of human rights and civil liberties. the stockholm programme places particular emphasis on the promotion of these rights, particularly in the areas of justice and security. priority must be given to mechanisms that facilitate citizens' access to the courts so that their rights and legitimate interests can be asserted throughout the union. our strategy must also be to strengthen police cooperation and law enforcement, and to improve security in europe. the internal security strategy must be developed with a view to countering the rise of extremism in the member states, removing the tensions caused by irresponsible policies and concrete solutions on sensitive issues such as immigration, asylum policy, roma and national minorities, so that these issues are not exploited by far-right extremists. properly organised migration can be beneficial for all concerned. europe will need a flexible and socially responsive immigration policy in the labour market of the individual member states of the european union. however, with a view to ensuring a credible and sustainable immigration and asylum policy, we must also address the issue of illegal migration, which is a serious concern for our citizens, in a coherent manner.
i want to start by asking mr. president klaus, as well as the position of the czech republic. i think that just as the federal republic of germany had to hear the decision of the constitutional court, so mr. klaus had to wait for the decision of the constitutional court. in view of his conduct, i see this as the responsible conduct of a citizen who, when he felt some uncertainty in the law, had his opinion formed by the competent institution, by the court. i would also like to point out that the treaty of lisbon comes into force at a time when europe is in an economic crisis. the current decisions of governments that have taken steps to mitigate the economic crisis have not been effective, they have not been effective and from this point of view i think that we need to proceed in the future in a more coordinated way and not to make ad hoc decisions that do not bring enough effect in promoting employment and in promoting economic development. i therefore think that the new commission should also be composed of experts and professionals.
on 20 november, 20 years have passed since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child by the united nations. this anniversary coincides with the creation of the intergroup on family and child protection. the challenges facing the european union such as demography, reconciliation of family and working life, care for dependent persons, social inclusion, the fight against family and child poverty, and intergenerational solidarity policies require the expertise of family organisations dedicated to protecting the interests of children. the convention on the rights of the child reminds us that for the harmonious development of a child's personality, he or she needs to grow up in a family environment based on happiness, love and understanding. the intergroup on family and child protection works in parliament as a platform for the plurality of views of members across political groups. i call on all colleagues to support this group in their political groups. they will enable important and useful work to continue for parliament's activities.
for the efd group. at the end of the parliamentary term, at its plenary session on 6 may 2009, the european parliament approved a proposal for a directive regulating electronic communications. however, the plenary also approved one amendment which the council considered difficult to implement. a conciliation procedure was therefore held until 29 september, with the aim of reconciling the positions of the council, the commission and the european parliament so that the requirements of article 138 could be correctly transposed into the european legislation in force. i would therefore like to commend the efforts of the european parliament's negotiating team and the substantive and constructive approach of the council and commission representatives, which have enabled agreement to be reached on the wording of the provision at issue in such a way that the objectives and ideas contained in the original article 138 are transposed in an acceptable manner into the new telecommunications directive. i am convinced that the new telecommunications directive is well prepared for application in european public life after the conciliation procedure.
the field of forensic medicine has recently gained in importance mainly because of its increasing importance in the fight against crime and criminal activity. a high degree of cooperation across nations can help to combat crime more effectively at this time. it is clear from practice that such cooperation is not sufficient in itself and that it is necessary to establish a common legal framework that will set the standards of operation of forensic laboratories, as well as a network of such highly qualified laboratories throughout the european union. the absence of an agreement applying common accreditation standards to the analysis of scientific evidence is a serious shortcoming that should be addressed. i hope that the council will take the initiative as soon as possible and that a new document will be drawn up as soon as possible, with the european parliament already heavily involved. in conclusion, mr president, although i wanted to talk more about forensic laboratories, i would like to say that my ambition is certainly not to increase the importance of the european parliament, but i consider it absolutely unprecedented that the council representative did not take the time to come here to hear our views.
in writing. − pesticides, especially pesticides used in agriculture, have a significant impact on human health and the environment and their use must therefore be further significantly reduced. long-standing experience with the collection of data on sales and use of pesticides has shown the need for a harmonised methodology for the collection of statistical data not only at national but also at community level. in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, this regulation establishes a common framework for the systematic production of community statistics on the placing on the market and use of pesticides. i therefore consider the joint text of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on pesticide statistics, which was approved by the conciliation committee, to be an appropriate measure which will ultimately contribute to the sustainable use of pesticides and to an overall significant reduction of risks to health and the environment, but also to adequate crop protection.
in writing. − i welcome the community's decision to conclude the hague protocol of 23 november 2007 on the law applicable to maintenance obligations, as this protocol brings the long-awaited and necessary clarification of the rules for determining the law applicable, which complements the hague convention of 23 november on the international recovery of child support and other forms of maintenance. harmonisation of the rules will bring legal certainty and the ability to act for those entitled to maintenance without being subject to different legal systems. the special rules also prevent the debtor from avoiding the maintenance obligation when the person entitled cannot obtain maintenance under the law of the state of his habitual residence. the right to refuse to enforce a right established by a protocol shall be limited to cases where the effects would be manifestly contrary to public policy in the state of the court seised. at the same time, i would like to express my deep regret that the united kingdom will not be taking part in the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol by the community.
for the s&d group. the lisbon treaty was an important step in the success of this whole initiative. the process that the treaty will bring will strengthen the union from within, but also in a global context, and is also very closely linked to the strengthening of cooperation in the area of the current third pillar. the union will be more open, more efficient, more democratic. the main challenge and priority is to ensure fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as integrity and security in europe, by fully promoting the effective implementation and adequate respect for and improvement of existing legal instruments, taking into account the protection of human rights and civil liberties. the stockholm programme places particular emphasis on the promotion of these rights, particularly in the areas of justice and security. priority must be given to mechanisms that facilitate citizens' access to the courts so that their rights and legitimate interests can be asserted throughout the union. our strategy must also be to strengthen police cooperation, law enforcement and improve security in europe. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs for their conclusions and thank you, mr president, for your time.
on behalf of the ppe group. the culture of the languages of the peoples of europe as a whole constitutes the cultural heritage of europe, as the commissioner has said, and i thank him. there is no difference between being a minority language and being a majority language. however, the use of languages is an integral part of fundamental rights, as stated in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights. it is no coincidence that national communities are extremely sensitive to any breaches in this area. on behalf of the more than half a million minorities, i raise my voice against the slovak state language law, whose rights are violated and restricted by certain articles of the law. some examples: article 8 (4) of the law requires that the doctor communicate with the patient in places where the percentage of the minority is less than 20% in the state language, as does the social worker with the client, as does the firefighter, the paramedic if he is on duty, that is, during the fire or during the rescue. article 6 (1): the text of advertisements, whether public or private. article 8 (6): the text in the official language must first appear in larger letters or at least as large as the text in the other language. this obviously conveys the message that the first language is more important, the second is subordinate and secondary. article 9 of the law punishes legal entities that violate the use of language, but also small businesses with fines that are disproportionate and why is it a crime to speak in one's own native language? such a law obviously cannot be properly enforced. mr. president, i have to go. slovak legislation, instead of transposing into domestic law the obligations it had adopted from the council of europe's charter of languages and assumed by ratification, instead adopted a directly opposite law. nor does it seek bilingualism, as it neither assumes nor encourages knowledge of a minority language, even in the public service. mr. president, i have to go. the last sentence. i am very pleased that the european parliament has put this debate on the agenda and i appreciate the clear position of the president of the parliament, jerzy buzek, as well as the clear message from the commission that minority rights should be protected and not restricted.
for the efd group. our hungarian friends have been teaching us recently how to deal with the issue of the use of minority languages in slovakia in a european way. they teach, but they somehow forget to look at themselves, how in their country, hungary, they restrict minorities from using their native language. let's look at child-rearing and schools together. the slovak republic allows hungarian children to receive education in their mother tongue, from primary school through secondary school to university. all subjects are taught by hungarian-speaking teachers in hungarian. on the contrary, in hungary slovak children cannot even dream about slovak schools. the hungarian government abolished them in 1961. since then, children from ethnic minorities in hungary have had nowhere to learn the correct use of their mother tongue, because the hungarian government does not allow them to receive education in their mother tongue, unlike other governments in the european union. slovak children in hungary are therefore forced to learn all subjects in hungarian, and their mother tongue is added to their school curriculum as a punishment, as an extra job to disgust them. he is taught by hungarian-speaking teachers who do not speak slovak. this suppresses and derails the children's relationship to their native language and cultural ties. over the last 50 years, this allegedly european approach to minorities has decimated the slovak minority by about one tenth. that is why the former hungarian ombudsman for national minorities recently openly admitted that total assimilation of national minorities is still taking place in hungary. i respect my friends, the deputies from the republic of hungary. our peoples have been shaping the history of europe together for over a thousand years, but i just ask them to realise that the numbers don't let up. the slovak minority in hungary is decimated to one tenth as a result of the policy in the hungarian administration and the hungarian minority in slovakia is still as numerous thanks to the correct policy in the slovak administration.
let me proudly say that slovakia is making a significant contribution to linguistic diversity and to the preservation of linguistic cultural heritage. a few facts: the hungarian minority has about 700 schools with hungarian as the language of instruction. all minorities have the right to use their language in court proceedings, in official communication, in the designation of municipalities, and to have radio and television broadcasts in their mother tongue. the state financially supports cultural events of minorities and accepts the use of the mother tongue in business, contractual and other contacts. hungarian mps are attacking the slovak language law here. their claims are sheer lies, fabrications, products of resentful hungarian nationalism. we must reject that, ladies and gentlemen. on the contrary, the slovak language law is fully in line with international standards, as confirmed by the most competent commissioner of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, mr vollebæk. our language law contributes to the elimination of discrimination against minorities, to the safety and health of our citizens and creates space for their full integration. in addition, slovakia has signed the charter of minority languages, thus maintaining the linguistic diversity of all minorities in slovakia at a high standard.
the slovak republic applies a high standard in relation to national minorities and at the same time one of the most lenient state language laws in europe. nevertheless, he is under constant pressure from the hungarian representation, which does not hesitate to use lies and fabrications to influence european public opinion. we have seen this at almost every session of the european parliament since its enlargement in 2004. hungary is a country that has almost completely eliminated minorities on its territory and is trying to grossly interfere with the competences of the slovak republic. this is completely unacceptable. i trust that the european institutions will not be like an elephant in a china case. slovakia will solve the problems related to the use of the state language in a cultural manner and in accordance with european traditions. the implementing regulation on the amendment of the language law will confirm a sensitive approach to all nations and nationalities living in slovakia.
allow me to stick to the topics of our conversation. i will not talk about the law, about the use of the state language in the slovak republic, because i am convinced that this is a matter for slovakia. on 1 january 2010, it will be 22 years since a very wise and respected man stressed that respect for minorities and their culture is the basis for building peace. the right of minorities to preserve and develop their culture must be vigorously promoted. minorities have the right to use their own language and this right must also be regulated by legislation. the opposite attitude would lead to the loss of a rich cultural heritage. he said this on the occasion of the world day of peace. europe's cultural wealth is the peoples who have managed to preserve it to this day. to preserve unlike the united states of america, where this wealth has been melted into an indefinable mass. europe is home to a multitude of languages, and the european union makes sense as a project of a community of nation states. we must talk about the rules for the use of minority languages, because rules are necessary, but we should not deprive europe of this wealth. the problem of using a minority language in any country arises when there is no willingness to communicate or when it is a representative problem. a minority should feel good in the country in which it lives, and that is why i personally will always consistently defend any minority language, but always as a minority language. that is my understanding of the commission's position.
i am very sorry that, despite the growing social problems in the member states of the european union, which affect every single citizen, regardless of nationality, there are constantly open quarrels in this house, as today, at 10 minutes to midnight, between the hungarian and slovak members of parliament. the language law, like all the previous topics that were opened here by our hungarian colleagues and colleagues, has no negative impact or influence on the representatives of national minorities. mr president, the rights of national minorities in slovakia, as well as all other minorities, are fully protected and are well above the norm. we are shaking hands with our hungarian friends, we want to have good neighbourly relations and we are very sorry that the institution of the european parliament has been repeatedly misused to incite hatred against the slovak republic.
i was going to respond to mr. bokros, but you didn't give me the floor. i wanted to respond that the slovak parliament, i admit, does not translate all laws into minority languages, of which there are 11 and not just one, and that as for a large minority such as the hungarian minority, which has half a million members, we also have a half a million roma minority who do not complain. i wanted to ask how many hungarian parliaments translate all laws into minority languages, and if so, is there any translation into slovak? but i really appreciate you taking the opportunity to speak in slovak. mr. tőkés, slovakia is building bridges and i'm very sorry that you keep pointing this out but bridges need to be built from the other side, from hungary. i am very sorry that as a new member of the european parliament i have to constantly answer questions about slovak-hungarian relations and cannot deal with the things that really interest me. i would like to thank the commissioner, as a member of the committee on culture and education. your work is really great and it's great that we can use 23 european languages, one of which is slovak.
i have to be careful with my foreword, it's all lies, lies, untruths. please study the language law, because it seems that you have your own language law and we in slovakia have another, different language law and we are talking about two different laws. i come from košice, a cosmopolitan city of 250,000 people, where there are a large group of hungarians, czechs, russians, ukrainians, roma and, of course, slovaks. four years ago, voters decided that the coalition of us social democrats and the hungarian minority in the košice region was working very successfully together. as a regional mp, i can say that our cooperation is exemplary. hungarians and slovaks live in harmony with us and it does not occur to anyone to insult or attack each other because of their nationality. in the concrete life of people there are no contradictions, the national problem in mixed territories is not there. i mean that in all seriousness. and if the top politicians of some parties had not lived this issue for their own preferences, this issue of the hungarian national minority would not have been opened in the european parliament either, because it does not exist.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i, as a hungarian representative in slovakia, declare that the slovak language law is wrong. and it is not bad because it violates the european values, but because it violently interferes with the right of hundreds of thousands of free european citizens to use their mother tongue and restricts its free exercise in an unacceptable way. fear of punishment and the unclear wording of the language law leads to the fact that citizens do not dare to use their mother tongue even where it is allowed. on the other hand, he is forced to use double language even when it is completely unwarranted. the slovak government, which also adopted nationalist ideas, justified the language law as creating a balance between the use of the slovak and hungarian languages in the southern slovak regions. as he explained, this means that if a slovak lives in a hungarian-speaking community, he has the right to receive all official information in that language, whereas, conversely, this only applies if the minority is at least 20% of the population. that's a good balance. and all this is happening in 21st century europe!
dear minister and officers. let me remind you of what the minister said: there is no place for violence in civilized societies. we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the un resolution on the fight against violence against women. as i listened to my colleagues and to you, i wondered, in 10 years, in 20 years, will our descendants still be saying in this house that violence has no place in civilized societies? it is true that time is not on our side, for we see that aggression is increasing in societies. it's growing through media, but it's also growing through the crisis. psychologists say that in a crisis, aggression is much greater than in a normal situation. violence against women is a problem, and it's a problem even when male colleagues often say that men are also victims of violence. unfortunately, statistics show that 95% of the victims are women. 80% of trafficking victims are also women. i think it is really time for the european institutions to take this problem more seriously.
in writing. today, november 25, is not only the international day for the elimination of violence against women, but the christian world also remembers st. catherine of alexandria, who was imprisoned and became a victim of violence, a martyr of conscience and freedom of speech in the early 4th century. some exaggerate the problem of violence to the point that i sometimes feel as if we women have no other problem. i believe that the overwhelming majority of the time, women are much more concerned about poverty, health care, education, the evaluation of their work within the family, and other life circumstances. still, we must admit that violence is also a problem. it's a problem unworthy of a civilized society. a problem that dehumanizes human dignity. however, i find that there is politically correct violence and politically incorrect violence in the european parliament. because that is the only reason why i was not able to vote in the femm committee on the amendment condemning forced sterilisation of women and forced termination of pregnancy.
the council recommendation on non-smoking environments aims to help member states in their efforts to better protect citizens from tobacco smoke. this is in line with international commitments under the who framework convention on tobacco control. i support this recommendation. smoking is still the most common cause of premature death. there's talk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease, but less talk of reduced fertility in young women and men. in times of demographic crisis and the invention of new fertilization methods that are costly, we should focus more on true revenge. family education must begin to protect our children from the negative effects of smoking. and an important final requirement: close monitoring should also include responses to tobacco industry activities aimed at undermining anti-smoking measures.
the food crisis is not only an economic and humanitarian problem, but also a matter of world peace and security. i supported the resolution passed by the council, even though the solution to the problem of hunger on earth has its reservations. the world food summit did not go the way the organizers wanted. although the fight against hunger is a socioeconomic, financial and cultural issue, the discussion in the assembly was narrowed down to a technical level. fao director jacques diouf was also disappointed by the way the meeting was conducted and by the absence of western representatives. no specific commitments were made by the representatives of the developed world. i can't help but see the issue of hunger and poverty as a media issue, rather than a concrete problem that needs to be addressed urgently. the basis of solidarity is the willingness to take on concrete responsibility in meeting the needs of others.
mr president, along with the approaching winter season, the threat of a new gas crisis is emerging from the east. a few weeks ago prime minister putin made it clear to us that russia may again violate its gas-supply contracts with eu member states. to avoid this he called on the eu to lend as much as eur 1 billion to ukraine in order for it to be able to fulfil its gas-transit commitments. so we may expect another round of strange political play directed by our russian partner. this is unacceptable. although particular member states are concerned by this on different levels, the eu will have to take unified measures and adopt an assertive standpoint on this crucial issue on principle, out of solidarity. moreover, this is a signal to speed up our new projects for the diversification of long-term energy supply so that russian influence can be minimalised.
thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conditions for further enlargement of the european union have also changed favourably with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. no one can now argue that the union does not have the institutional capacity for enlargement and decision-making, because it already has it. there are therefore no grounds for postponing and delaying the process of further enlargement. this is particularly true for the western balkans region. recently, it has seen an intense, mostly positive development. this has been confirmed by the recent country progress reports and the european commission's 2010 european union enlargement strategy. together with the introduction of visa-free entry into the schengen area, this creates a real opportunity for the countries of the region to progress on their european path. it's up to them to use it. but the european union must not hesitate to act responsibly and rationally, with full respect for this fact, and the european parliament should be active.
mr president since both you and the commission have expressed your intention to monitor the implementation of the slovak state language act, i would like to draw your attention to the following. the government has issued an executive order that not only overrides existing laws, but also introduces new restrictions. the draft law states that the law's legitimate purpose is to protect and promote the state language in official contacts, to protect the rights of those who use the state language. it states that the legitimate aim of protecting those rights is to interfere with the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural and legal persons, so that it is quite clear that the rights and freedoms of persons belonging to minorities are at issue. the enforcement measure also states that everywhere, whether they are over twenty percent or below, they can only use the minority language if a third person present agrees to it. i think this absurdity is unacceptable in europe.
for the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion which is under discussion is essentially a proposal to adapt the original progress programme to the current economic reality of europe, marked by the financial and economic crisis. the commission proposes to support micro-credit for small businesses, to create an incentive to maintain and develop employment in crisis-affected areas. but to achieve this goal, we must ensure that the funds provided are not spent on social benefits or consumption. they can only go to meaningful viable business activities through objectively evaluated criteria and transparent procedures. it will therefore be essential to require final lenders to assess rigorously the business intentions of applicants, the risks of the business projects submitted, as well as the return on the funds invested. i therefore consider it very necessary to support and complement the additional proposals of the committee on economic and monetary affairs which give the commission's proposal a meaningful framework.
the reporter. - mr president, mr commissioner, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i do not have to worry about missing something important from my report today. everything that we and our colleagues and collaborators have been preparing for the whole year has already been discussed sufficiently in the committee on budgets, in the plenary, but also in conciliation proceedings or in trilogues. and most importantly, there's enough support for everything in this auditorium. when we started work on the budget at the beginning of this year, i was curious to see how far my advisers, coordinators or political group would let me go when someone told me that i had gone too far. i saw a lot of reserves and deficiencies that i wanted to address. other reservations and suggestions for improvement were the result of dozens of meetings with senior officials of the institutions, section directors-general and other staff. the staff of the institutions themselves started to come up with information or suggestions. i felt that they hoped and believed that we could solve them together. on the one hand, i was glad that they had shown such confidence in me and had come, but on the other hand, i would have been even happier if you had been able to listen to their opinions and resolve problems with their direct superior. i think, of course, that most departments do a quality and professional job, but right now, and at this point, i want to emphasize the importance of human resources. based on the deficiencies identified, we have been able to take more systemic steps. but not everything can be discovered and dealt with by the rapporteur, the secretary-general of the european parliament or the highest representative of any european institution. i therefore very much welcome the agreement reached in the conciliation procedure with the european parliament's management on the organisation audit. for the first time in its history, the european parliament will carry out a functional audit in two of its important departments next year. at inlo headquarters and in the security service. the aim is to achieve a more efficient use of resources. in the past, of all the institutions, only the court of auditors has taken an external view of its work. the result was fruitful. the court has been able to reduce its administrative costs and achieve higher productivity. i would like to commend the high professionalism of the swedish presidency. already in april, before it had started to exercise its mandate de jure, we met with minister hans lindblad and his colleagues. we quickly agreed on priorities and together we were able to bring rational elements and starting points. we are putting forward a joint declaration in the plenary today on building policy, which is a major item in the institutions' administrative expenditure. i believe that together we have succeeded in starting a process that will bring about cost savings in this area. ladies and gentlemen, only by working together at european level can we meet the greatest challenges of the 21st century: climate change, risky and expensive raw materials and energy, economic globalisation, or threats to our security. if europe is to cope with these challenges, it must have effective and comprehensive tools at its disposal. the treaty of lisbon provides us with such instruments. in the initial phase of the entry into force of this treaty, the european union needs to have adequate financial means at its disposal in order to implement the new policies. although today's debate on the 2010 budget of the european union is indeed the last one of the year, the work of the two rapporteurs on the 2010 budget is not over and will continue for at least three months, for reasons of implementation of the treaty of lisbon. i believe the results of this work will be successful.
mr president, the 2010 budget is far from being generous –just like any other budget. under the circumstances, we need to work with what we have, and what we have is the impact of a major global crisis as a priority. everything else becomes secondary. as the rapporteur for the committee on international trade (inta), i would hope the increased amounts under heading 4 (the eu as a global player) will be well invested and well monitored so that they stimulate increased flows in trade and, together with the elimination of barriers, we should achieve stronger gdp and employment growth. the wto doha development agenda is the best multilateral platform to accomplish this task, particularly in developing countries. therefore, there is a strong incentive to bring this long-lasting saga to a successful resolution as we will then be in a position to fight the nasty impact of globalisation with a truly powerful tool.
the reporter. - dear colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your inspiring speeches. i would like to thank the representatives of the european institutions, the presidency of the european parliament, the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators and all of you colleagues. this year, the two chairs of the budget committee were in charge of the whole thing. in the first semester it was mr. böge, in the second mr. lamassure. i am certainly not the first, mr böge, mr lamassure, to tell you that you have both made a great contribution to the work of the committee and the whole budgetary process. i appreciate the cooperation with the swedish presidency and with the commissioner. ladies and gentlemen, those who are not officially speaking are our advisors, assistants, administrative staff. but they are the key people. we couldn't have done what we did without them. i'd like to thank them all. dear friends, the treaty of lisbon will have an impact on the whole range of services provided by the european parliament and the other institutions. the european parliament will have a significant increase in its codecision, up to 95% of legislation in areas such as freedom, security and justice, agriculture, fisheries, research, the structural funds. the use of qualified majority voting in the council and the creation of a number of new legal bases in areas such as tourism, sport, energy, civil protection, administrative cooperation will be intensified. this will enhance the legislative activities of the european union in general with a significant overall impact on the european parliament's powers and activities and thus on the need to strengthen the administration. in the coming months, we will examine and quantify the financial resources needed to implement the new european union policies linked to the lisbon treaty. i believe that together we can set the next budget process in motion.
the conclusions of last week's council of ministers meeting were not entirely balanced, and i feel, having been involved in this issue for a long time, that we have not made any significant progress in our efforts to achieve peaceful coexistence between the two peoples. i also want to say that i know we have more to offer. we are not only to be a mediator, but an active mediator of this peace process, and we must insist that the solution to this catastrophic situation be the same and be the same and acceptable to both states, that both states, or that both the state of palestine and the state of israel, participate equally. the council has tried to call on the palestinians to return to the negotiating table, despite their disagreement with some of the israeli measures, and we too insist that the unnecessary obstacles to the peace process be removed as soon as possible. the demolition of palestinian homes in east jerusalem, the construction of settlements and separation walls in the occupied territory is unacceptable. but it is equally unacceptable that we expose the state of israel and fail to defend it actively against all attacks and terrorist activities that target citizens of the state of israel. i would of course like to stress that the international legal framework must also be respected, without which there can be no hope of a stable development of the region. i think that we europeans, the european union and the citizens of our countries are ready to lend a helping hand, and i will wish baroness ashton well in her mission in this region and that she comes from the region with good news.
for the s&d group. i would like to say that i feel that the efforts made by members of the european parliament in the process of ratifying the treaty of lisbon have not been properly rewarded, in the light of the subject we are discussing, by your involving us more in these processes. i consider restrictive measures and sanctions to be an important instrument in the european union's policy, both in the area of foreign and security policy and, of course, in the area of justice and the protection of fundamental human rights. of course, we would expect to be able to be much more involved (as the european parliament) in decision-making in this area. we also accept that targeted measures and sanctions are designed to minimise the impact on the civilian population, and i am very pleased that you have mentioned this sentence, ms malström. however, as the only directly elected representatives of the european institutions, we have a legitimate feeling that we will be only a sort of accessory in the process of creation and later, as it were, excluded from the decision-making and control process. i do not think that is quite correct, especially in a case like this, where it is a very sensitive area concerning the area of justice, the protection of fundamental rights, because the fight against terrorism is a very sensitive subject for the people of our countries and for the european union as a whole. so i'm going to be patient and wait for this whole process to actually happen and what our collaboration will look like.
given that the functioning of the union is based on representative democracy and that citizens of the union are represented at european level in the european parliament, i believe that restrictive measures affecting the fundamental rights of individuals should, in this case, clearly be assessed with the participation of the european parliament. i do not think it is consistent for the european parliament to be responsible for criminal matters and, in particular, for preventing and combating terrorism, on the one hand, and to be exempt from adopting certain binding anti-terrorism measures to be applied in the territory of the european union, on the other. article 215 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which acts as a derogation from the provision of article 75 according to which the european parliament is the co-legislator, should therefore not be applied or interpreted in such a way as to weaken the protection of fundamental rights and the democratic decision-making process in the european union.
for the efd group. the economic and financial crisis has hit the transforming countries of central and eastern europe much harder than the stable democracies of western europe. it is therefore right to look for ways to reverse these adverse economic developments. it should be noted, however, that miracles only happen in fairy tales. therefore, a responsible fiscal policy of the government and modern labour law in each affected country are the first and fundamental prerequisites for change for the better. only then can targeted industrial action gradually help to develop the economy. to be effective, such aid must not be spent on social benefits or consumption, nor should it be spent on artificially created meaningless jobs. it should not be possible, for example, for the government to use such aid to allow the old thermal power plant, which produces more emissions than electricity, to be restored to operation, purportedly in order to create a few new jobs. if we really want to help the affected countries, we can only support financial projects that have a high degree of innovation and are environmentally friendly. let us ensure that the funds invested in these support programmes contribute to the restructuring of enterprises and have a lasting effect on the countries affected and thus on europe as a whole.
the history of europe, of its individual states and, therefore, of the european union, is, whether we like it or not, closely linked to the christian message. thus, the constitutions of many countries contain references to christian traditions. even the preamble to the treaty on european union draws its inspiration from, among other things, europe's religious heritage, from which universal values have evolved. fundamental rights in the european union are today guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but they are above all the result of constitutional traditions common to the member states, which have evolved over the centuries. i therefore believe that the european union should fully respect national history, culture and traditions and therefore strongly reject the penalisation of member states which defend their right to their own character and identity, including christian heritage and christian symbols. in conclusion, i would simply point out that the provisions of the charter and the european convention do not extend the union's competences.
i would like to make three brief points. on this christmas eve, on a tuesday before midnight, almost 60 years after the founding of the european union, we are still discussing one of the pillars of european integration. we are discussing the principle of subsidiarity. secondly, my honourable colleague mr borghezzi's question concerns the decision of the european court of justice in strasbourg that the presence of crosses in italian schools is a violation of the european convention on human rights. this decision has raised concerns in several states. the slovak parliament last week adopted a resolution stating that this decision is contrary to the cultural heritage and christian history of europe. and finally, as i read the joint motion for a resolution which we shall be voting on thursday, i do not feel very well. i regret that we do not have the courage to include in the resolution on subsidiarity those points of the treaty of lisbon which are directly relevant to the programme under discussion.
belarus deserves increased attention from the european union and the european parliament. i certainly approve of our extended helping hand, as long as the other party's response is concretely measurable and adequate. but we must be principled in our demands. the beneficiaries will then be democracy, good relations between the eu and belarus, and, most importantly, the citizens of this country. i therefore welcome the invitation of belarus to the euronest joint parliamentary session with a clear condition on the composition of the 5+5 representatives, which has the strong support of the european parliament. on the other hand, there is a regrettable gross violation of principles by official visits by representatives of the member states of the european union. one such principle required in an official visit to belarus is also meeting with the opposition. this was fragrantly disrupted by the absence of such a meeting, during the recent visit of the prime minister of an influential member state of the european union. such action is a blow to our efforts, damages the reputation of the european union and its institutions and does nothing to help strengthen democracy in belarus.
the reporter. - mr president, i propose that we vote in the other institutions bloc in a single vote, because i do not expect any problems. thank you. thank you.
for the efd group. freedom of speech is a very important aspect of a democratic society. it is therefore right that the european union monitors very closely any action aimed at intimidating those who openly criticize the dubious actions of government officials. in this context, i understand the european parliament's call to the azerbaijani authorities to express concern at the results of the police investigation against young people who are satirically pointing out the visible shortcomings in the country's political life. i agree that we cannot ignore certain unfavourable signals coming from azerbaijan, and i do not question criticism of the political environment in azerbaijan, but i miss the european parliament's equally strong criticism of the current events in the philippines, where 57 political hostages were executed. i think we should address all the issues that are shaking the democratic world.
