last year we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the npt and the year before that we adopted in this house a resolution calling on the presidency, the council and the commission to step up their efforts to promote effective multilateralism and to implement the treaty more strictly, a treaty which we know has curbed nuclear arsenals but has not, unfortunately, reduced them. the resolution also called on the united states to withdraw its nuclear warheads from european territory and on the united kingdom and france to halt their missile nuclear programmes. as i joined this esteemed assembly only in november, i ask how much and how these calls have been heeded or efforts have been successful, given that a new project to deploy a us missile shield in the czech republic and poland is being revived and that this alone is generating new, expected tensions between the west and russia and ideas and threats of a new dangerous nuclear arms race.
the bloody and merciless massacre of palestinians in gaza is a symbol of human impotence and double standards that screams to the sky. does the death toll of palestinians really need to reach four figures before international actors can use the mechanisms that have been available to intervene since the first day of the conflict? the european union imagines itself as a subject of international relations and a global political actor. is that true? we're the subject if the israeli military, with all its sophisticated intelligence support, attacks a school full of civilians funded by the european union. is there international humanitarian law if the israeli army forcibly relocates palestinians to a house that is then violently shelled the next day? i've been to israel many times, including sderot, i know a lot, but this israeli action is disproportionate, it's excessive and it's inhuman. it's immoral, it's perverse, it's bizarre, because it is essentially a campaign. this is a bloody campaign.
madam president, let me join those members who consider the second-reading agreement a well-balanced compromise, given the complexity of the matter. it shows the way for further improvements in the sector, towards more efficient and safer plant protection products, and is flexible enough to avoid situations in which the ban on certain pesticides would, in the final analysis, reduce the irreproachability of agricultural products. in particular, i wish to welcome the improvement of the original commission proposal aimed at avoiding the duplication of tests and studies and promoting non-animal tests. i hope that this could have an impact on other, related sectors, such as plant protection product data requirements, which are right now moving through their own revision process. even if pesticides, in contrast to chemicals, are intended to be toxic and their safety assessment is therefore a special case, it does not mean that redundant animal testing should take place or that scientific knowledge cannot develop in ways that will identify further redundancies and that further potential reduction in animal testing will be possible in future. it should be noted that development and registration of new agricultural pesticides or plant protection products can use upwards of 12 000 animals in dozens of separate and often overlapping tests.
the worrying health trends are largely the result of the irresponsible use of pesticides. clearly, we cannot have more health and less cancer with more and more toxic food. i'm talking about one of the key issues in environmental and health, and it's not cosmetic action that can help us, but a change in the development paradigm. the work done by colleagues christa klaß and hiltrud breyer with the shadow reporters is a step in the right direction and i give them all the credit for it. i am pleased that both reports open up several fronts of action at once, involving producers, sellers and users of pesticides. at the same time, we are calling for national action plans with quantified targets. i think it's very important that the neighbours are informed, which is important for people, but especially for bees. this means that we can prevent harm by simply paying attention to those who might be harmed. we wrote in the directive that member states could include provisions on neighbour information in their national action plans. i would rather see them write that they have to do this. i am convinced that it is possible to give more space to plant protection with non-chemical, i.e. biological and mechanical means.
i support the report by mr coelho, who, as always, has done an excellent job. i agree with the proposals that have been put forward, including the one person, one passport proposal. i would like to hear from the commission in particular, and perhaps also from mr coelho, what action is to be taken when children travel alone without their parents and there is no uniform policy on the documentation they must carry. the rapporteur suggests that the passport should be filled in by persons with parental responsibility, but sometimes also by other family members travelling with children and who may in fact be living together, etc. in short, we should be flexible enough here. on the other hand, it bothers me that no one is bothering to consider the possibility of a six-year-old traveling. the airplane is still going on, because the child is being prepared for the plane, let's not talk about the trauma a child experiences on the plane - a six-year-old boy or girl - then they are waiting for him on the other side and they hand him over to his parents or i don't know who. but what about when kids travel by train, bus, other public transportation, how about those things. if parents are irresponsible and send their children on such a journey, i think we should have a more positive attitude and make it clear that such young children cannot travel alone. this may sound harsh, but if we have so much to say about how important children are and about abductions and so on, we could have a little more courage to say something here. i would also like to ask the commission what is the position on this joint declaration by the council and the european parliament on the security of the original documents for issuing visas. so i'm very concerned, if that's true, that in any country, the system can allow such a treason abuse to happen. but i just want to ask the commission and maybe carlos what to do when people arrive at the border and the passport data doesn't match the official databases. i think that there should be a directive here that would be in the best interest of the child or the passenger.
the czech presidency expressed its willingness to intervene in the negotiations on croatia's accession to the european union. let me remind you, mr. president, that each candidate must present authentic documents. if the documents are not authentic, it must be warned. in the case of croatia, the border was drawn on the maps by croatia, but this is disputed. in her documents, she did not state that this or that part of the border was disputed, but simply drew the border as she saw it. of course, such a document cannot be authentic because it involves a dispute between two countries that will be settled in the second place. this is a bilateral dispute between two countries, friendly countries with excellent cooperation, but a dispute that we will resolve elsewhere. so i would like to point out that it is not a whim of slovenia to point out that the documents of croatia are not authentic, but that it is the duty of the member states to remind the candidate that she must submit documents that meet the standards of the european union. and what is the possible solution? there have already been many proposals, and i believe that the czech presidency will also try to find a suitable proposal, but perhaps the solution is for croatia to submit a decision of the government and parliament clearly stating that these borders are indicative, provisional or whatever, just a suitable term that clearly states that the borders are temporary and not yet determined. in my view, this would gradually move forward and enable croatia to join the european union as soon as possible, which is also in slovenia's interest. in conclusion, let me wish you much success in your leadership of the council of the european union.
the state of israel has ordered the israeli military to destroy hamas in gaza. hamas is exterminating by killing palestinians in gaza. one third of the dead are children, half of the dead are women and children these are not hamas members. the scale of the violence of war is enormous and disproportionate. and how can a cessation of hostilities be achieved if both entities do not recognize each other? the enemy must be transformed from an object of attack and destruction into an entity, a partner in achieving a ceasefire, and hence responsible for maintaining peace. israel must recognize hamas and start a dialogue with it, and vice versa hamas must recognize israel. there's no other way. any peace is better than a bloody war. the violence of war must immediately give opportunity and priority to politics. israeli prime minister ehud olmert is still trying to repair his battered reputation by not allowing a ceasefire.
i was disappointed by the czech foreign minister's last speech. and of course, all our hopes lie with our commissioner. because the death toll is rising. and if we keep talking like this, there's probably gonna be 1,500 dead in a week. hamas is a tough place to talk to. we have him on a list of terrorist organizations, so he's a tough guy to deal with. but israel is our friend, israel is our partner and an important member of the international community. and it has to abide by international resolutions, it has to abide by united nations resolutions and also recommendations of friends and partners. if he does not, his friends and associates must be able to condemn his actions and threaten him with sanctions.
the transfer of russian gas through ukraine is not just a bilateral issue, and it's not just a trade dispute. this is a problem with a strong multilateral component, because the sale and transit of gas is a market activity only if the conditions for it are met - and i see at least: transparency, clear rules, competition, credibility and also control. i am concerned and i wonder who will pay the damages to the companies that have already ceased their activity, who will pay the damages to the citizens. and here i think europe must demand accountability. what else can we do? we can speed up our diplomatic activities. we need to be more efficient and more rapid in shaping the common energy policy. and the third area i want to highlight is diversification. diversification of sources, supply routes and countries from which we import energy. i would mention two priority areas in particular, when we talk about gas - the use of liquefied gas and the nabucco project. both of these mean that we diversify the supply routes and the exporting countries. the nabucco project must take precedence over north and south stream, not only at european level but also in each individual member state. i would therefore also like to ask the commission if it can give us at least basic information on the progress of the nabucco project. i would also like to know what additional measures the commission is taking to ensure that such problems do not recur in 2010 and at least an approximate estimate of when gas will start flowing fully back into the union.
on behalf of the alde group. our european union is based on the lessons of the second world war. we have an orderly and shared historical memory, so we can build a common european future together. srebrenica is a terrible example that proves that the horrors of the second world war were repeated in europe in the most terrible way in 1995. srebrenica is a symbol of ethnic cleansing. srebrenica is a merciless and inhumane killing of children and adults it is genocide. but srebrenica is also the cover-up of the killings and the destruction of mass graves. we must build srebrenica into our shared historical memory and into the foundations of the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. we must not accept discriminatory and exclusionary stereotypes about individual nations, we must fight against collective guilt. those responsible for the genocide in srebrenica must go to the hague, they must be brought to justice, they must go to prison, and we must all work together to help build and enable a european future for srebrenica, for the people there and for bosnia and herzegovina as a whole. we must at least try to empathize with the trauma and anguish of people who live with the memory of a crime without their loved ones. i would like to thank the conference of presidents, which unanimously supported the proposal to invite young bosniaks and serbs from srebrenica to the european parliament every year, to think, plan and build a common and better future for srebrenica and the whole of bosnia and herzegovina, outside of srebrenica, free from the pressures and stresses of the home environment. this resolution... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to finish my speech because the relatives of the victims have asked me to thank you today for your understanding and for your support in the consideration of this resolution. thank you to all who responded and participated in today's debate. at the same time, i would like to end my speech with two sentences. this resolution is not about the past, although it also talks about the dead, it is about the living and their better future.
slovenia is the gateway for large-scale international transport of live animals, mainly from eastern europe to italy. in the experience of our veterinary authorities, the current european legislation is extensive, but somewhat cumbersome and complex to implement. the biggest problem we have is with inspections, because after the abolition of internal european borders it is difficult to check whether truck drivers have actually stopped at certain rest stops or not. i should mention that due to the small size of slovenia's territory, it is not mandatory to have its own resting places. so we have agreements with hungary and italy. we urgently need a common solution, and we need a common solution to be implemented. in view of the poor performance of long-distance animal transport on european roads, the 2005 revision of the regulation should be seen as an opportunity to raise animal welfare standards. transport is closely linked to the handling of animals before slaughter, and i agree with my colleagues that there is no reason to allow transport for more than eight hours. i therefore support the establishment of a strict limit on the duration of transport and i also support the proposal to introduce mobile slaughterhouses.
while the situation of the italian and hungarian minorities in slovenia is well regulated and both minorities have their own mp in the slovenian parliament, unfortunately we find again and again that the slovenian minorities do not enjoy the same support in the countries in which they are located. despite the intergovernmental agreement in budapest, there is no political will to have a slovenian minority represented in parliament. the new law also provides for the closure of the only slovenian museum, which was the centre of cultural life, despite the fact that it only has 16 000 euros in funds. while slovenia allocates eur 14.5 million per year to the needs of the hungarian minority, hungary allocates only eur 400 000 per year to the slovenian minority, and we therefore rightly expect the hungarian government to improve financial and political support. the financial crisis must not be used as an excuse to cut funding for minorities, either in hungary or italy or elsewhere.
we hear and see that the long-standing civil war in sri lanka is coming to an end. this is not a political achievement or a lasting solution, but a military superiority that has driven the tamil tigers out of the last major city. it's a military solution to the problem. we see winners and losers, and tens of thousands of local civilians retreating or fleeing in fear of government troops. the experience of the western balkans shows that after military victories and formal cessation of hostilities, the victorious forces often commit murders of the defeated or of their alleged sympathizers. victories can be followed by individual, uncontrolled revenge, but often by organized killings, usually covered up by the perpetrators. i do not want to accuse anyone in advance, but i would like to point out that we must act immediately within the european union and ensure international presence and control in the most critical post-conflict period, the most dangerous for civilians fleeing in fear.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. energy is a basic commodity needed for life. and for a long time, people have not been satisfied with just providing basic living conditions, but have been striving for social development that makes life easier for us. therefore, the energy sector developed as required by the economic development of a company. only recently, however, have we come to view individual welfare more holistically, not just in terms of purchasing power. in the energy sector, we also call for a balance between secure and reliable supplies, environmental protection and action on climate change, and competitiveness. in our political group we support all three objectives as the basis of a common european energy policy and we welcome the laperrouze report in this respect. climate change and the already regular problems in january with the transport of russian gas to europe reinforce the importance of diversity in the common energy policy. we need to implement as quickly as possible projects in the union to strengthen the energy infrastructure that will allow energy imports to take place via different routes. in this respect, we must ensure that there are different countries of transit as well as different countries of export of energy. the implementation of the nabucco project is of paramount importance in this respect. in addition, we need to enrich our energy mix. it must have a significantly higher share of energy sources that do not cause greenhouse gas emissions, both renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. we cannot give up coal either, but we must ensure that the best possible technologies are used to capture and store hydrogen. let me emphasize that energy efficiency is our priority. many studies show that we must also channel our financial, intellectual and creative capacities into production and transmission capacities. despite all the measures mentioned, we will not be able to reduce our dependence on imports to zero for quite some time. to minimise the problems of importing energy, we need to develop an effective external energy policy. i therefore hope that the treaty of lisbon will be adopted and that there will be no more institutional obstacles to the formulation of foreign policies. in this case, we point to ireland and expect the solution to be found by the irish and the irish. our expectations for a common external energy policy will also be more realistic if we take concrete steps in the areas we have already defined as part of the common energy policy. i believe that we should adopt a third liberalisation package for gas and electricity with single market rules across the union within this mandate. let me end by presenting my position on the amendments tabled. i think the laperrouze report is so good that it does not require substantial amendments. the long-term objectives pursued by the 20-20-20 package, which have been endorsed by both the european council and the european parliament, should remain unchanged. our political group will not approve amendments that reduce the diversification of energy resources. we will, however, endorse amendments that increase supply routes and improve energy security in the union. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report and thank her for her cooperation.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a pleasure to be here and share with you some thoughts on the important year ahead. firstly, let me congratulate the temporary committee on climate change for all the work it has accomplished since its creation in april 2007: hearings, conferences, reports, resolutions, exchanges with third parties. its tireless efforts have greatly contributed towards shaping the eu position on climate change. the latest resolution, ‘2050: the future begins today – recommendations for the eu’s future integrated policy on climate change’, which was adopted by the temporary committee on climate change on 2 december 2008, and which you will adopt at this part-session, will again provide a very useful basis when discussing the options for a post-2012 climate agreement and for further deepening the eu’s climate policies. as you know, the work during the presidency will focus on the international negotiation process. by the way, i am leaving strasbourg today and flying to delhi to have discussions with the indian government and indian representatives. two weeks later we have an eu-africa meeting in nairobi, kenya, and we have already made contact with the us administration, which i will mention later. by adopting the climate and environment legislative package at the end of 2008, the eu is sending a very strong political signal to all our partners in the world. with the adoption of this package in a few months’ time, the eu will demonstrate that its commitment, as well as its leadership, in the global fight against climate change is as strong as ever. indeed, the eu will be the first region in the world to commit unilaterally to a reduction of its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. as you know, the climate and energy package will, as of 2013, enable the reform of the eu-ets (emissions trading scheme), set limits for the emissions outside the emissions trading scheme, stimulate co2 capture and storage technology, as well as boost the deployment of renewables. as far as the ets is concerned, a single eu cap with a linear downwards trajectory will be set, auctioning will be gradually introduced as the method of allocating allowances and monitoring reporting, and verification will be strengthened. but, of course, the eu has repeatedly said that it will not settle for 20% – we want to go for 30% – and, therefore, we hope for an ambitious global and comprehensive agreement in copenhagen. the copenhagen conference is now only 10 months away. the december 2008 poznań climate conference agreed on a work programme for 2009, with clearly identified steps towards copenhagen. the decision in poznań on the operationalisation of the adaptation fund represents an important step forward in the negotiations on the financing building block – one of the key elements of any comprehensive global agreement. the ministerial round table in poznań also confirmed the shared willingness of both the developed and the developing countries to find an effective globally agreed response to dangerous climate change for the post-2012 period. this encompasses further mitigation efforts, adaptation actions and finance and technology means to make that response operational. poznań has also sent the message that the current financial crisis is not to be seen as an obstacle to further action on climate change, but, instead, as yet another opportunity for profoundly transforming our economic system and moving firmly towards a low-carbon economy. the czech presidency intends to build on such important achievements and to pursue efforts at international level towards a successful agreement in copenhagen in december 2009. on 2 march 2009 the environment council, and later the ecofin council and the spring european council, will be the first opportunities for further developing the eu position in this respect, on the basis of the commission communication towards a comprehensive climate change agreement in copenhagen, which we received a week ago, and on the basis of your input. in addition to the shared vision for long-term action for mitigation technology and adaptation, the identification of appropriate means for financing effective and long-term climate policies will be key in future eu deliberations. in this context, i can only reiterate the climate change committee’s call on the commission and the member states ‘to adopt, at bilateral level in the negotiations towards a post-2012 agreement, a mediating role between the positions of developed countries, in order to ensure by means of a balance of interest the success of the climate negotiations involving all major greenhouse gas emitters’. the eu will also continue to engage in active outreach with key negotiating partners and main emerging economies, but also with a new us administration. i have spoken on the phone to carol browner, the president’s assistant for energy and climate change. i have made a preliminary proposal to her for a high-level meeting with us representatives and the eu commission – commissioner dimas – the czech presidency and the upcoming swedish presidency (i.e. the troika) in early march, probably 2 or 6 march. i said that the eu would like to work as closely as possible with the united states on the evolution and linkage of carbon markets. we gather that congressman waxman has indicated that he will try to get the legislation from his committee on the cap-and-trade system to be implemented at the end of may. this is quite an encouraging response from the united states as a reaction to the activities of the european union. we also count on the european parliament to ensure that the eu voice is more widely heard, and we appreciate very much the outreach efforts that you have made in the past. i can only encourage you to continue along this path and wish you all good luck for the year ahead.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the final report of the interim committee on climate change, chaired by mr florenz, has ambitious objectives and covers a wide range of issues, confirming the high importance attached by the european parliament to the issue of climate change. i would like to congratulate the temporary committee and particularly the rapporteur, mr florenz, on their excellent work. last year, our priority was the climate and energy package. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the internal market. this year, within the european union, we will be particularly concerned with preparing the measures to implement this package. on the international front, our priority will be the negotiations on climate change, which will be intensified in the run-up to the united nations conference in copenhagen, and as you have heard before, the czech presidency attaches great importance to these negotiations and has scheduled a number of bilateral and multilateral meetings and negotiations. so your report comes at the right time. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am pleased that your report, in line with the commission's analysis, stresses that the financial and economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to delay action on climate change. we also agree that taking action to tackle climate change is part of the solution to the problem of the economic crisis we are facing today. with the climate and energy package, europe is now moving towards a low-carbon economy. at the same time, it will help to reduce europe's dependence on imported energy, which is as important a benefit as we have seen recently with the gas crisis. by now achieving the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and by 30% if the rest of the developed countries agree to similar reductions under the international agreement, we are arguably in the most ambitious position of any country or group of countries. we are setting an example for the rest of the world, which will give a positive impetus to international negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, the report contains valuable suggestions on what needs to be done to make the most efficient and effective use of natural resources in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save energy. the commission took a first step in this direction last year by adopting the action programme on sustainable production and consumption. more recently, with measures complementing the climate and energy package, it has strengthened actions to save and use energy more efficiently. however, much remains to be done in the field of the sustainable use of natural resources and, of course, there is still great potential for more efficient exploitation and use of energy. the commission's recent proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings is a good example. this is a multi-target sector as it has significant benefits both in terms of energy saving and climate protection, but also creates jobs and contributes to the development of technological innovation. today, more than ever, it is necessary to stimulate and strengthen our economies by taking measures to accelerate the adoption and use of clean technologies that will contribute to the creation of green jobs. at the same time, it will create significant opportunities for our foreign trade as markets for clean technologies expand rapidly. the commission has therefore proposed specific measures in the context of the european economic recovery plan last december. as regards the international climate change negotiations, the climate and energy package has undoubtedly strengthened our case and our efforts to convince our international partners that effective action is not only necessary but also possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, however, that an agreement will be reached in copenhagen. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we don't have time to waste. it is a matter of political will, and i believe that there is a political will. the commission has also adopted a communication on the most important issues in the negotiations. the developed countries are the first to be called upon to continue to play a leading role. positive messages are coming from the united states because, as the czech minister said earlier, president obama has committed to active us participation in international negotiations, announced that there will be a greenhouse gas trading system in the united states, and announced reductions of 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. all of this is positive, but we want to see it done quickly and this year, because we have to have an agreement in copenhagen at the end of this year and the united states is in debt and, as president obama has announced, we have to contribute decisively, together with the european union, to get the copenhagen agreement done. we are also looking forward to the debate taking place in the united states on this subject, which will lead to the adoption of a number of other decisive measures to combat climate change. the measures recently announced for cars are also a feature. the european commission's communication confirms the target of collectively reducing emissions by 30% in developed countries and defines the concept of comparability of efforts. comparability will be crucial both for achieving environmental objectives and for ensuring a level playing field. the commission proposes a number of criteria for the definition of comparability. as regards developing countries, and while efforts of a similar nature and scale to those of developed countries are not required, it is nevertheless important to ensure that further action is taken by developing countries to achieve the lower carbon intensity economic growth they require. to achieve the 2 degrees celsius target in 2050, developing countries need to limit their emissions growth rate to levels that are 15% to 30% below what they would otherwise be if they made no effort to reduce by 2020. the efforts to be made by each developing country will of course depend on its level of economic development and its potential. this means that we expect clearly more from the fast-growing economies than from the rest. we all know that we will not get the result we want in copenhagen unless we can get even more investment and secure more funding for emissions reductions for adaptation. a part of the necessary investment, even in developing countries, will of course come from the private sector within the various countries, and about a third, according to the commission's estimates, will come from the carbon market. in addition, part of it needs to be public funding and we need to look at ways of securing these public resources. today, in the midst of economic recession, that discussion will not be easy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. finally, the commission communication stresses the importance of a global carbon market and the establishment of compatible trading systems among oecd countries by 2015, while for the more economically advanced developing countries it proposes a later date, by 2020. the commission's communication on the future of the european union is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the international negotiations will move forward at a very fast pace and will require intense diplomatic activity on our part this year. i look forward to your contribution to this great endeavor.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. climate change is a broad field and i agree with what the rapporteur said that we had to be innovative in our temporary committee if we wanted to really cover all the horizons and content that this field covers. but now, at the end of our work, i can confirm that we have really had the opportunity to exchange different points of view, that we have had the opportunity to make different proposals for action, and that these discussions have sometimes been very striking, precisely because of these different points of view. this approach ensures that the report is truly varied, full of good suggestions, and also allows for coherence in the formulation of the various sectoral policies that will be developed in the future by the standing committees. and i think it would be good to continue with this kind of work. of course, the areas of action that have been identified as having the greatest potential have been the energy, transport, transport and industry sectors, but other areas have also proved to be important, such as agriculture, livestock, sustainable forestry, information and communication technologies, and eu development policy with third countries. the development towards a low-carbon society is of course possible by investing in research, by promoting development and innovation, all of which is already mentioned in the lisbon strategy. but even that won't be enough. we also have to achieve a change in lifestyle. and we can only do that if environmental concerns become a value, a real value, that people will embrace. we must do much more in the field of information and education. i also agree with what has been said about the link between the financial crisis and climate change. this is an opportunity, and fears that we will forget about climate change are unjustified, because measures to revive the economy must be designed to promote sustainable development, not just consumption. since the objective is to limit the increase in global temperatures, we must also act internationally, and here europe must find and deepen a common language with the developed countries, because together we must lift and bear the burden of our historical emissions, while, of course, listening to the developing countries and the poorest and allowing them to develop, albeit more costly, but sustainably. finally, i would like to congratulate our excellent rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz, on his openness to our work.
congratulations to the reporter and the shadow reporters for a good report. it is intended to contribute to the further stabilisation and normalisation of kosovo. the successes of the past year strengthen the hope that multiethnic and multicultural coexistence is possible in kosovo. and only under this condition can the european perspective of kosovo and the entire western balkans be realised. we've made progress, significant progress, and now we need to build on it. i particularly welcome the fact that the situation in kosovo is also returning to normal thanks to eulex. i welcome the recent establishment of the kosovo security forces and the participation of some representatives of the serbian community in the police forces. if we want to make progress faster, we must work on security, political, economic, social and other fronts, and pay particular attention to the local level, where the issue of cohesion is most sensitive. projects that strengthen interethnic cohesion and cooperation should be supported. in this spirit, i welcome the european commission's intention to use all available instruments to make progress. that's what kosovo needs.
the honourable member for the common foreign and security policy, mr solana, rightly asked where we were in 1990. it would be even more interesting to ask what the common policy was like in the early 1990s. the european community was powerless then, then wishes were followed by visions, strategies, political will and capacity, which led us to action, not just in europe but around the world. over the years, particularly since the historic enlargement of 2004, the context and ambitions of the common security and foreign policy have changed considerably. ten years ago, we were pretty much on our own. today, we have a history of successful actions and we cannot imagine the cap or the esdp without a global dimension. in this context, it is not surprising to me that all three reports, as well as many speakers, point to the new situation, the need for adjustments to the strategy, for more unity and more interinstitutional cooperation. all this is reinforced by concrete proposals for improvements to the operational structures as well as the political decision-making process, which i welcome. i agree that we are at a new stage in the common policy and i would like to highlight two points in this connection. it will be necessary to examine in detail the implications of the financial and economic crisis in the context of the common policy. i believe that we must be very careful about the political consequences of the crisis, especially if there is a wider monetary crisis. secondly, i have been surprised to see for many years that many of our partners want a european union with a single, clearer and stronger foreign and defence identity. this means that the european union is a desirable global player. in this spirit, i believe it is necessary to look at our bilateral partnerships in an even more global light than before and to develop innovation in the form of multilateral partnerships that do not just cover bilateral interests but stabilise the wider region.
i warmly welcome today's decision in principle by the government of the republic of croatia to respond positively to the european commission's initiative for mediation between slovenia and croatia. unfortunately, there is an unnecessary addition to a positive response, a condition that greatly narrows the space for mediation. it is important that we create together the conditions for the start of mediation as soon as possible, which will calm the political atmosphere in both countries and allow for a better dialogue. we need to continue to promote the process of enlargement of the european union, and that is why we need the lisbon treaty. time is of the essence, so i hope the framework agreement for mediation will be ready soon.
it is strange, in fact, that with such large and difficult questions, technical questions, the question is asked again and again how to ensure that the system will work. however, today, data processing has already been overtaken by technical issues, and the public rightly asks why we do not have professional institutions at european union level that are competent enough to deal with the technical problems that arise with extremely large, extensive databases, so that these institutions can do this work. i have been involved in these discussions all along, including with rapporteur coelho, and i have also been aware that there are certain technical problems and also gaps, i think, in knowledge. so, my feeling is, and it's not just my feeling, it's the public's feeling that there needs to be a serious technical and also financial audit of the system and there needs to be a question of accountability of those who ran this project.
we in alde support the meijer report. macedonia (fyrom) deserves a chance and a better future. but it also needs a minimum of international respect, including the right to its own identity and the recognition of its own language and culture. the name issue has dragged on too long, and the mood in the country has been deteriorating for a long time. there's a lot of populism and nationalism, too much political digging and verbal attacks on neighbors. naming infrastructure after historical names from the time of greek history, even before the arrival of the slavs in these places, is not a step towards good relations with neighbours. monuments that are hundreds of feet high are unnecessary. we need to help countries, politicians and people to get out of the blockade if we don't want instability. but it's not enough to just get the visa. they need a date and a start date. they deserve a chance to show their skills in the accession process. we must help them now and show them the necessary trust. this will contribute to stability in the region and enable positive developments. they need a positive response now, because time is very, very important. time is money, actually. and something about croatia. mr. commissioner, in the past, the presidents of both governments, drnovšek and račan, have already achieved a great achievement, an agreement on the border. unfortunately, they're both deceased today. but you were so brave to go ahead, to invest in the future, and you achieved something. i think it's right that you encourage both governments to follow in their footsteps and reach an agreement on the border again, and quickly. this will be good for slovenia, croatia, the european union and the western balkans.
i have supported all the european parliament reports on croatia's progress towards full membership of the european union so far, and i welcome its many new achievements along the way. i will also be happy to support this important report, which has been prepared with great effort by mr swoboda, on the assumption that the compromise amendments will reflect a balanced and realistic approach. only such an approach can lead to the removal of the reasons for the reservations and to the acceleration of the accession process. i fully agree with president vondra that we need a constructive and dynamic approach. in this context, it seems to me very important that, after previously unsuccessful bilateral attempts, the european commission, through the mediation initiative, has offered the possibility of a new and credible attempt to find a final solution to the border problem between slovenia and croatia, and in this context, rapid progress in croatia's accession negotiations. i am glad that both countries have taken the initiative and that high-level talks have begun. i hope that this initiative brings us much closer to a triple victory: the victories of croatia, slovenia and the european union. one view cannot win, only common goals and a common will. i also agree with the rapporteur swobodo that the principle of fairness, which is part of international law, must also be respected. and i fully agree with commissioner rehn that the un charter is the appropriate starting point for the settlement of the border dispute and that the commission's initiative is in the spirit of that charter. it's time for the green table to go to work. no rhetoric and pressure that would undermine the dignity of one or another party or its status in the accession process. we need a positive atmosphere. i am convinced that there is only one good solution, and that is the one that slovenia and croatia will agree to with the mediation of a third party, the european commission. i want that to happen as soon as possible.
i must say that i want croatia to become a member of the european union as soon as possible, and slovenia wants that too. but if we want her to do that, then we have to help her and we have to work together. a good way to resolve disputes is to listen carefully to all involved. in fact, this report, and the report which the european parliament has today endorsed, does not show that we were balanced in deciding the so-called croatian-slovenian border dispute. if we want to be balanced, then the minimum we should include in the report is the principle of fairness. and i would also say that if we really want to solve this problem, then we should ensure that both member states take this, the result of this international body, into account. therefore, both parliaments should ratify its outcome in advance.
at the last meeting we adopted an important package of maritime legislation to improve the response to accidents at sea. the sea, as we know, brings great benefits, but also risks. when a bigger accident happens, we all pay for it, the people who live next door. so the best course of action is prevention. in particular, one which regulates the volume and nature of maritime traffic in proportion to the sensitivity of the area in which it takes place. i therefore ask the commission, and in particular the commissioner responsible, mr tajani, and i will do so in his language, italian. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, (...) as the purpose of this new security and maritime regime is to reconcile the projects of the two metanifer rigassificatori in the gulf of trieste, a dense shipping traffic area and a dense urban concentration with a deep sea, not exceeding 20 metres, and not to touch the sea because of the intrusion of mercury. the terminals are attracted, realized, one metaniera a week per implant. we know the risks these ships carry in the zone as indicated.
in bazovica near trieste, just outside the italian border with slovenia, there has been a monument to the first anti-fascist in europe since september 1945. four slovenian patriots, bidovec, marušič, milos and valenčič, fell as victims of a special fascist court at the first market trial in 1930. the monument has been damaged and smeared 16 times, the last time a good week ago. the vandalism is part of a web of political, economic, cultural and educational pressures on the slovenian national community in italy and on the republic of slovenia. many mazes on slovenian monuments, walls of slovenian schools and local signs with slovenian names deeply offend the feelings of italian citizens of slovenian nationality and the slovenian nation in the republic of slovenia. no one has ever been held accountable for these crimes. i find it hard to believe that the italian police would be so incompetent that they couldn't find them, or that they wouldn't have the political will to do so. sixteen consecutive unsubs, that's a lot of people.
the weekend in slovenia, and especially in dolenska, was upset by renault's decision to move the production of clio cars from nová město to france. i'd like to believe the official explanation that the decision was dictated by the increased demand for clio and twingo cars and not by protectionism due to the problems of the automotive industry. ladies and gentlemen, whose car factory is revoz in new town? is she slovenian? is she french? the answer is clear: a slovenian factory that produces french cars is undoubtedly a european factory. i am convinced that we must protect the car industry in a european rather than a national way, otherwise we will be moving away from respect for the four fundamental freedoms which are the key idea of the european single market.
the structural funds, which the european union uses to strengthen social, economic and territorial cohesion and development in a total of 268 regions, certainly make a major contribution to improving the quality of life. and i am glad that it is precisely this, our composition of parliament, that has also contributed to the fact that more funds have been allocated to these purposes in this financial perspective than was originally proposed. at the same time, i am saddened by what my colleague has already mentioned, namely that there are far too many bureaucratic obstacles, and i sometimes wonder whether europe is to blame or whether national governments are to blame. i think that in order to address these pressing needs of both municipalities and regions, these barriers must be simplified. at the same time, if we want to keep young people and women in rural areas, we need to invest much more in supporting rural development.
commissioner, i agree with you completely that the car industry is structurally overheated and that we need more environmentally and energy-efficient cars. it would be a mistake to try to protect the existing trend of quantitative development by means of support measures. we will be most social and solidarity-oriented if we support eco-energy-oriented restructuring. the crisis also showed how interconnected the european automotive industry is. such a connected industry simply cannot tolerate protectionism on a national scale. i expect the common policy to take this into account.
madam president, last year we voted with a persuasive majority in favour of the resolution proposing to ban the cloning of animals for food and the sale of any products from cloned animals and their offspring. ahead of voting on the legislation on novel foods we should recall the reasons for having been prudent and aware of risks for the health and welfare of animals. we know, from our past experience with similar issues that tackle both food safety and ethical relations between humans, as the dominant species, and nature, that public perception depends very much on specific knowledge of the matter. consumers are increasingly sensitive about suffering and injuries to farm animals and therefore they have the right to be informed about the potential of cloning to cause pain and to waste natural resources. yet the development of animal cloning as a method of food production is being pursued without public awareness. the problems with cloning do not concern just the welfare of animals, but also consumer confidence in food since it is believed that in europe food is produced to a very high standard. the eurobarometer study from last october documented serious public concerns with regard to hypothetical future use of food products from clones. this is linked to the sale of imported food, which could eventually be sold in europe without being labelled as a product from cloned animals. i therefore agree with the rapporteur’s approach urging the commission to come up with a separate piece of legislation on clones. among other problems which have been covered by the amendments tabled by my political group, i wish particularly to support the sharing of information from animal testing so as to avoid the need for new tests involving animals. finally, many thanks to the rapporteur for her thorough work on this important piece of european legislation tackling food safety, as well as consumer protection, and animal health and welfare.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the president-in-office of the council on the successes achieved by the czech presidency in extremely difficult circumstances. we have heard some tough words today, but i am sure that the citizens of the european union are not so much interested in how far we go to the left or to the right, but in how european we are in our politics, that is, in what we do effectively together. we have two main tasks: to show a social sense of solidarity with those most affected, and at the same time to support those 'pushers' who can best help us to overcome the crisis. the crisis must be used to restructure the economy, not just the automotive industry. the economic crisis has shown the urgent need for more coordination of economic policies, as well as for stronger common institutions, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. in this spirit, i welcome the constructive proposals in the de larosière report on financial institutions.
the new transatlantic agenda was new in 1995. a lot has changed over the years, so we need a new partnership agreement. twenty years have passed since the fall of the berlin wall, which was followed by the historic enlargement of the european union. during this time, we have seen the tragic rise of terrorism and new threats to regional peace, we have become aware of climate change, we have faced an energy, financial and economic crisis. it would be useful to take stock together of the collapse of communism and to address the global state of the world with greater sensitivity to the interdependence of global players. a deeper partnership with the us needs to be developed in the context of new challenges and new insights. this is not just a financial and economic crisis, this is a global leadership crisis. we need to advance on multiple fronts simultaneously. we cannot succeed in reforming the international financial system unless we make progress in the doha process, unless we are more successful in working for peace and poverty eradication. if we are talking about effective multilateralism, then we need to develop it in a way that is win-win. yes, we can. in this spirit, i am in favour of regular political consultations between the two partners and, in particular, of strengthening the parliamentary dimension of cooperation through the establishment of the transatlantic assembly. i am particularly pleased with the report's emphasis on the removal of restrictions on investment and transatlantic financial services. finally, i welcome the desire expressed in the report for closer cooperation in the field of space programmes, in particular between the european space agency and nasa. it's not that i want to be an astronaut, i'm more interested in new technologies.
sadly, in all the former communist countries, there has still been no full investigation and admission of the crimes of communism after world war ii. because these regimes were in power for decades after the war, they were also able to destroy most of the evidence. as a result, the criminals and perpetrators were never named, let alone convicted. history is written by the victors. the european union must call on all the countries of the former communist regimes to make sure that historians investigate and record in their textbooks the whole truth about the post-war events. and the responsibility of the western allied powers for returning and handing over the refugees to the communists. the european union should also call on all countries to consider naming streets and squares after controversial heroes, such as tito in yugoslavia, who are already responsible for the post-war mass killings as a result of their office at the time.
while we were trying to end hunger in africa and other poor countries, we were having ease and poverty at home, in our own home. in my home country of slovenia too, unfortunately, despite the good standard, the need for solidarity assistance is increasing. media reports say that food stocks of humanitarian organizations are almost depleted. given that food is still plentiful in most of the member states of the european union, it would be truly inhuman for our citizens to suffer or even die of hunger on the other hand. survival certainly has an advantage over any other investment that can wait for more favorable times. if countries cannot provide new sources of supply, it is probably appropriate to open up their intervention stocks. i support this programme, but i also appeal to all of us and to our fellow citizens to be attentive to the plight of our fellow citizens around us.
you've already mentioned a number of political problems in this debate. but i would like to point out another challenge that is not mentioned in our report. this is the area of climate change that has really been the focus of most of the scientific work. but if we are to be successful, then we must also back up this action with strong, strong and decisive political action. this is a global challenge. this is a challenge that also requires a shared responsibility. i therefore think we should take every opportunity to call on russia to take its share of responsibility for both mitigating and adapting to climate change, and to call on it to be more active in international negotiations, given that we are just ahead of the copenhagen conference. i would like to remind you, colleagues, that taking appropriate action on climate change is also a matter of ensuring human rights.
there is a natural and human drama unfolding in the arctic. the goal of our efforts should be to prevent further political or other drama from ensuing. and the call for a responsible attitude towards the arctic is a call for urgency and also one of the issues of global governance. i welcome any efforts that will be respectful of the indigenous population in this area in particular.
i fully support the proposed amendments to the regulation which will extend lump sum funding and allow the use of the lump sum payment system. it is a suitable measure that can alleviate the problems of the unemployed in the current economic situation. in adopting these amendments, i would like to draw attention to the following: three quarters of the citizens of the european union consider that the european parliament has an important role to play in shaping european policies. the same survey also showed that the european parliament enjoys the highest level of trust among respondents. 51 per cent said they trusted the european parliament, while 47 per cent trusted the commission and 42 per cent trusted the council. trust in our institution was even higher than trust in the european central bank. why am i giving you these statistics? because this european parliament already pointed out in 2005 that the need for greater simplification is a key issue for the structural funds in general and the european social fund in particular. our recommendations to improve the conditions in which businesses and citizens operate have only begun to be implemented by the commission now that we are in a crisis. i am pleased that our findings and recommendations will be at least partially implemented, but i am also saddened by the firefighter approach to solving problems. i hope that this experience will help the commission to act more quickly in the future and that many of parliament's valid and justified comments and proposals will be implemented sooner.
mr president, european legislation was set to encourage enterprises to improve their products and obtain higher standards of energy efficiency and environmental compliance. ecolabelling as a part of the eu action plan on sustainable production, consumption and industrial policy is such a tool. and so is emas, the eco-management and audit scheme. it is about striking a balance between regulatory and market-based instruments, with the aim of developing voluntary standards for various products and services or helping to optimise production processes and make more effective use of resources. now, the problem is how modern technologies can be used for environmental protection, and how industry or services should be helped in promoting the environmental value of the production. the goal of ecological certificates is to engage synergies with other legal acts that are tackling environmental aspects of the products. emas is saving resources: among them, water. from past experience we know that certificates at various levels were not sufficiently coordinated. existing voluntary and regulatory instruments were not linked to each other in order to establish synergies. first revision of the emas scheme was not encouraging. it was initially expected that emas-registered companies would have performed better, since the emas environmental requirements are tougher as compared with older and better-known certificates such as iso 14001. yet emas-registered companies were not performing better, and the system of environmental excellence was weaker as compared with the iso 14001. the commission found reasons for the lack of success – the system is too tough, too expensive and too complex – and has proposed acceptable simplifications. the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, added valuable additional modifications. among them is a line in the definition of emas which i saw as particularly important. it would help organisations to proceed more easily from iso to emas standards. i am confident that our amendments have made the commission proposal for the regulation better and that we have brought it closer to users. an impartial system of certification will be, we suppose, appreciated also by consumers. i hope that this will help organisations to choose the most rational systemic approach in order to interconnect different fields of environmental protection.
president ahmadinejad's populist and hard-line nationalist rhetoric is doing a great deal of damage to iran's reputation and image. it also threatens moderate western islam and spreads negative stereotypes about it. we must respond decisively to provocations. the iranian regime, by convicting roxane saberi, has shown that it is fundamentally weak and cowardly. in a verbal confrontation with the u.s., he chose a hostage, this time a female journalist, to ideologically mobilize the people. he's flouting every democratic standard. fundamental human rights are at the heart of the european union, as is the fight for the right to information. the seventh force, the media and journalists, are important tools for establishing democratic standards. the government that fears the press, it's the press that it attacks first. non-democratic regimes are always afraid, so they persecute, imprison, torture, even kill journalists.
it is right that the european parliament has put the consumer at the centre of its negotiations, because the internal market needs a consumer with more rights, a consumer with clear information. the consumer must have the choice of service provider and therefore also needs smart meters. i am pleased that we have reached agreement on this comprehensive and professionally demanding package. however, i consider that the negotiated compromise on ownership unbundling still allows for large organisational differences in the electricity and gas markets between member states. and i hope that the mechanisms and provisions contained in this package, such as greater independence of national regulators, will succeed in overcoming these differences and in creating a single market for electricity and gas.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner. a few years ago, i told you, commissioner, that i didn't want to be punished for making a phone call to another country. and i didn't expect my well-being as a consumer to improve so soon, especially with this directive. this directive demonstrates that the european union can bring its common policy closer to its citizens by making it felt in their pockets, where it feels best. this directive means more europe, more competitiveness and a single economy, and is, in my view, one of the key achievements of this mandate of the commission and parliament. i only wish that we could continue in this spirit and with this attention to consumers in the next mandate. congratulations again and thank you very much.
on 2 april, the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution on european consciousness and totalitarianism. i love my country slovenia very much and i am saddened that this resolution of the european parliament has not found fertile ground in slovenia and has not helped to solve the serious problems of the past. on the contrary, some want to re-elevate tito as a hero and name a street in the capital of slovenia after him, even though he is responsible for the postwar mass killings. in the absence of a trial, many refuse to acknowledge that the postwar mass killings are a crime and that those who ordered them are criminals. it might be appropriate for the european parliament or you, mr president, to invite the national parliaments to take note of the european parliament's resolution and to support or supplement it in the light of national specificities, thus contributing to a clearer and fairer understanding of national and european history.
the enlargement of the european union has brought growth and development, while peace and stability have also made democratisation possible. five years of the enlarged european union is a success story, but today's economic situation requires rapid and effective action. we see and feel the benefits of full integration into the european union and the enlargement of the euro area. defending the euro successfully protects economic interests within the european union as well as europe at large. we do not have 27 economic crises in the european union, we have one very serious and deep crisis. we will solve it together with other european countries, with coordinated, timely and decisive action. protectionism is the way back, and populism is the recipe for economic collapse. growing and expanding businesses have a future, and the future of the european union is in its further expansion, in its deepening and in the creation of new and better opportunities.
in my country, we say that children are the greatest wealth because they are our future. unfortunately, europeans do not seem to want this wealth, and so european culture and identity are also at risk. i welcome the report by mrs estelle on the improvement of the health of pregnant women and mothers. this, in turn, means better health for the children and less parenting problems. in some of the less wealthy countries of the european union, women have much more maternity leave than in the richer, western countries. i think the european parliament should support the best possible solutions for both mothers and children. saving for your kids is the worst investment you can make for your future. women want to be mothers, but at the same time, of course, in an uncertain world, in uncertain marriages, we have to take care of our social security. enabling the reconciliation of work and family life should be our top priority in tackling europe's demographic problems.
i very much welcomed the ambition of the czech presidency and i am glad that this presidency has achieved great results in difficult times, and i believe that the change of the presidency team, as well as the european elections, should not diminish the ambition of the european union in responding to challenges that definitely require more common policies. in this context, i will not repeat the importance of ratifying the treaty of lisbon. i was pleased when mr vondra spoke about the objectives, and so was the president of the european commission. i think if we are to succeed in combating the effects of climate change, we need to set high goals in copenhagen. these objectives are crucial to the success of economic restructuring. we know that the japanese economy first greatly increased its competitiveness years ago when the country set high environmental targets. i would also say that some people are questioning the functioning of the european social model. of course, it is not difficult to implement such a model in times of economic recovery and decades of positive growth, but i think that the strength of the european social model and the social market economy model should be demonstrated precisely in times of recession. i am convinced that we will also pass this test, and i hope that we will be able to use this time in this crisis to improve the development concept, in which i hope that, in addition to the social dimension, the ecological dimension will also have a stronger dimension.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the response to the financial and economic crisis is an important test of our unity and solidarity for europe. we need to prove two things: firstly, that we will work together and therefore be more successful, and secondly, whether we are able to maintain the strategic priorities set in the last few years on the development of a knowledge-based, innovative and low-carbon society. i am glad that europe has responded quickly and unitedly. we have renounced protectionism and have put the internal market as an important european asset to be preserved in this crisis. but we have also managed to maintain our vision and to act in the light of long-term challenges, certainly including climate change. and let me just mention the energy projects. my estimate is that we have found additional funding relatively quickly, which we are allocating in the future to develop new, cleaner technologies and to increase the reliability of energy supply. and what's important is that we have technologies that are included in this package that talk about carbon capture and storage, about promoting wind energy, that is, energy from offshore wind farms, and connecting gas and electricity grids. however, i would like to point out that, despite the many good projects that will receive additional aid, some important projects are missing from this package and that is why i would like these projects to be monitored very closely, their implementation to be monitored and additional money to be found as soon as possible to finance projects to improve energy efficiency and other renewable energy sources. and there's certainly a lot of great potential in the use of geothermal energy. and i see that as one of the important tasks at the very beginning of the next mandate.
with media mundus, we are well on our way to better promoting european cinema and european knowledge. the european union is a major player in the development of european cinema. the rapid development of modern technology also requires continuous education. it would be a pity if the backwardness and lack of knowledge of certain countries and of the less developed continents did not prevent the production of films that document the life, natural and cultural heritage, and the interesting stories and history of the people of these countries. the dominance of american cinema, which has a large market, makes it more difficult for european films to compete on the world market, even though they are many times better quality than many american lemonades or the big spectacle. the media mundus programme is therefore a good move to establish contacts with filmmakers and distributors in third countries to exchange information and know-how in this field. the european union is also playing a role in connecting continents and audiences from different countries. we'll have a new successful program, but we'll lose our reporter and our expert on the subject. i want to personally thank you, ruth, for your work, for your generosity and cooperation. when i first came to the european parliament as a new member five years ago, ruth was the first person i turned to for advice and information, and she was always ready to understand and help. so, thank you again, and i wish you continued happiness in your family and continued success in your work, because i know you're not going to rest in the future. some members know that you will be back, i do not know that. of course i want to, and i also thank all the members of the committee, the secretariat and the parliament for the opportunity i had to work in the committee on culture and education, where it was very pleasant, nice. regardless of political group, we have worked together for the welfare of culture, education, youth, sports. and even though i'm from a small country, my ideas also penetrated this committee and were then approved by parliament. thank you for your cooperation.
italy wants to force an onshore gas terminal on the border with slovenia. the european union is also based on mutual trust and good neighbourliness. the management of environmentally hazardous energy sources requires particular care in the area, and also elementary honesty. when italy and slovenia try to hide the negative environmental consequences of the project, they harm everyone, including themselves, and especially the population living near the disputed site. the slovenian public and the slovenian state are strongly opposed to the construction. lying to the camera could be berlusconi's way of political survival in italy. it cannot and must not be allowed to become a conscious practice of the european union. this is unacceptable. italy is in flagrant violation of the principles of the european union and is manipulating the situation to the detriment of people and the environment. in the narrow gulf of commerce, he's trying to build a land-based terminal in the jabljas with an international scam. it degrades the environment, it destroys coexistence along the border and it sets a very, very bad example for future members.
several citizens of the republic of slovenia and italy have asked me to take this opportunity to draw attention to the intention of the italian republic to build a gas terminal in the gulf of trieste. i share the concern of slovenian and italian environmental organisations that the gas terminal could place a heavy burden on an already overburdened area. it is the water area of the gulf of trzsa with a highly urbanized hinterland. the organisations also express doubts about the authenticity of the documentation used for the environmental impact assessment. i call on the italian and slovenian governments to cooperate on this project as well, in accordance with the memorandum they signed last september - that is, to participate in the ecological assessments in the northern adriatic, or the gulf of trieste - and i expect that such an assessment will lead to a more appropriate location for the construction of a gas terminal than the gulf of trieste.
while i agree with many of my colleagues who have spoken before me, let me ask the following question. have you considered your current term of office? are you satisfied with the balance sheet of your activities over the past five years? i take it you are, and that's why you're running for reelection. however, are you satisfied with your effectiveness in preventing the financial, economic and social crisis so far? do you have a clear conscience in the face of the terrible rise in unemployment in the european union, with millions of people out of work, with the financial sector once again paying outrageous rewards to those who have driven us into the worst crisis, on the one hand, and the poverty of the world, on the other? can you tell us today what will be different in your second term? will we see more of the same or will there be something new? what can we look forward to? what do you think you need to change in your practice? and the question you've been avoiding in your policy guidelines? you want to head a commission of 500 million people in the european union. where is the ambition and the drive of our great community to open the door to our fellow europeans and to those fellow europeans who want to do so? what additional steps will your commission take to speed up this process? will you concretely help - with experts, with material - the central government of bosnia and herzegovina to fulfil as soon as possible the 'roadmap' and the criteria for free travel of its citizens to the european union?
the reporter. − the decision to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities, their member states and tajikistan is in line with the european council's strategy for a new partnership with central asia and with tajikistan's clear will to develop a broad cooperation with the european union in trade and in many other areas. i am pleased that all the member states have ratified this agreement and that, having already done so with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan and uzbekistan, we will be able to give our consent to the conclusion of the agreement with tajikistan. the trade and cooperation agreement concluded between the european union and the former soviet union will thus cease to apply. in line with its fundamental values and principles, the european union hereby expresses its strategic interest in cooperating with tajikistan, which it regards as a very important partner in this part of the world, and wishes to contribute to security and stability, economic progress, the development and consolidation of democratic institutions, and the protection of human rights and the rule of law by deepening relations. the main objectives of european policy towards tajikistan relate to support in the fight against poverty, good governance and reforms, as well as to the effective fight against drug trafficking and organised crime. the report is critical of the state of democracy and expresses concern about corruption and the status of civil society, while calling on the government of tajikistan to address the difficult situation in the field of education as soon as possible. the report also expresses legitimate concerns about human rights violations, in particular women's rights, religious freedom, judicial independence and the working conditions of civil society. it also welcomed the start of the human rights dialogue, the progress of which is essential for the development of bilateral relations. this agreement expresses the belief in tajikistan's potential to create a modern and functioning state capable of managing its regional role successfully, in particular in the fight against extremism coming from afghanistan and the region. the report also draws attention to the importance of energy and water, which affect interstate relations within central asia and require a joint response. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues for their constructive cooperation and the commission for its valuable assistance. i would also like to thank in particular the embassy of the republic of tajikistan for its cooperation. i am convinced that this agreement will enable the european union to substantially upgrade and deepen its existing cooperation with tajikistan. i hope that in this spirit it will be implemented soon. i am happy to recommend the agreement with tajikistan for adoption.
i would like to congratulate my colleague peterlet on his excellent report. stan means country and tajikistan is the last of these countries ending in stan that we have identified. it's been overlooked by our side before, and that's been a great injustice. but stability in central asia is in their interest, it's in ours, it's in the strategic interest of the entire world. all countries are linked together like a linking vessel, and we must also show our maturity by giving equal attention to all countries in the region, regardless of their size or their development or their energy wealth. i therefore believe that we have corrected the error and the backlog and i congratulate the rapporteur, the commission and the swedish presidency on finally putting this backlog behind us. the present will be better.
the reporter. − i would like to thank everyone for their kind words, for the new lighting and for the new emphasis. i am pleased that this debate also showed the great unity of parliament and its desire for a stronger and closer partnership with tajikistan. i am also glad that we are aware of tajikistan's identity and its special role in the region. i would be glad if we could follow up with the same enthusiasm the implementation of this agreement, which will soon prove to be an opportunity. i would also like to stress the importance of the parliamentary dimension of cooperation, which we will also have the opportunity to promote through the delegation for the countries of central asia. i am confident that we will also be able to take the final action tomorrow with a large majority for this agreement. the eu and tajikistan will have the opportunity to cooperate at regional, bilateral and global levels once it enters into force. thank you so much for your cooperation and help.
as you may know, i am the rapporteur on the libe committee for visa liberalisation for the western balkans. in july, the european commission sent us a proposal to abolish visas for citizens of serbia, macedonia and montenegro. macedonia has already fulfilled its obligations, while montenegro and serbia must also fulfil the remaining conditions as soon as possible. while i very much welcome the european commission's proposal, because the process it has followed has been extremely demanding, i cannot agree that it has left the other countries out of the document altogether, without any timetable. bosnia and herzegovina and albania need a clear timetable for when they can lift visas. they understand the urgency of meeting the conditions. bosnia and herzegovina in particular made considerable progress in the summer, based on the findings of independent organisations. the decision to remove both bosnia and herzegovina and albania from the list is primarily technical in nature. and we all know that even the most technical decisions have powerful political consequences. in reality, the bosniaks are excluded from the visa liberalization process. we must all take political responsibility for the implementation of this process, which will be a prerequisite for peace and stability in the western balkans. we must also urgently consider the opening of a visa dialogue with kosovo, as this will give impetus to structural reforms. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to step on the brakes in the abolition of visas for all the western balkan countries with a clear european perspective. visa liberalisation in the western balkans is not a puzzle to be played. it is about people, their quality of life, mobility and the possibility of closer cooperation, not least economic cooperation.
i congratulate macedonia and hope that montenegro and serbia will also achieve the same goal at the same time. this would be good for all three countries and for the entire western balkans. the bad news is bosnia isn't in this package. the efforts in bosnia are insufficient and underperforming. our efforts and their efforts. the main obstacle to progress in bosnia is the state of mind, the sense of powerlessness that paralyses people and institutions. only bosniaks in bosnia can't get free movement in europe. they have no reserve countries, and that's why they're ghettoized. they're the only ones who can't dream of dual citizenship. this is humiliating. they feel ignored, erased and punished by the european union. we must help the country of bosnia and herzegovina politically so that it can help itself and its citizens. the european union is co-responsible for the situation in bosnia, for the stability of the region. the council and the commission and parliament are jointly responsible. bosnia is close to visa-free. but the problem is in their heads, and in our heads. between them and us, a wall is growing taller than the berlin wall. let's tear down that wall and help them get their visas. now, as soon as possible, in a package with the other three countries in the region.
i would like to express my satisfaction with the progress made in the visa liberalisation process over the last 18 months. this is a great achievement, and i encourage you to continue at such a rapid pace. in recent days, reports have come in from sarajevo that the fulfillment of the requirements, despite all the difficulties, the requirements of the roadmap, is accelerating. even in such sensitive areas as police coordination between banja luka and sarajevo. i call on the commission and the council to monitor and respond to this progress on an ongoing basis. the european union must be able to influence those politicians in bosnia and herzegovina who would dare to sabotage this process. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina must not suffer because of the irresponsibility of some of their politicians. and here we have a duty to help them. i call on the commission to include bosnia and herzegovina in the visa free regime as soon as possible.
the reporter. − a selective approach to visa waiver does not strengthen the european perspective in all western balkan countries, which already have divided societies, and such an approach introduces a new division. i welcome any step in this direction and am convinced that the abolition of visas for all these countries would certainly contribute to improving the image of the european union in the eyes of the people of these countries, who, after years of conflict, also need to be open to the world. i would also like to draw attention to the hundreds of thousands of young people in these countries who have never had the opportunity to travel the world. they only know europe and the world from television. we also owe it to them to strengthen the european perspective. i am aware of the security aspect, but those with bad intentions when they travel outside their countries will find a way. hundreds of thousands of others with good intentions are being held. so i am in favour of the council and the commission revising their positions as soon as possible, paying attention to the progress in these countries and lifting visas for countries which are not now in this first group. thank you so much. i call on the governments of the member states to fulfil their commitments as soon as possible, for the benefit of their citizens and the prospects of european accession.
it's called the "catch the eye" system, and it's working, and i'm glad of it. we need a safe and diversified supply. we're in agreement on that. but i think there was a very strong common denominator in this discussion of ours, which is called the alerting of the russian threat. i don't think that's a productive way for europe to go. i think it would be much better and more beneficial if we developed a partnership with russia. and i would be glad if the commissioner could also report on how far we have come in the energy security dialogue in the context of improved overall relations with russia and the implementation of democratic standards, which we would like to see more of in russia.
a clear yes to the lisbon treaty in ireland is a major step towards a united europe and a minor blow to the eurosceptics. this decision is all the more important because it was taken by the people in a referendum after they had had a year to consider whether the original no was really beneficial for ireland. now, along with the czech republic, the credibility of our member states, the eu member states, the uk, where opposition leader mr david cameron is promising a referendum on the treaty if he wins the 2010 election, is at stake. this is despite the fact that both houses of the british parliament had already ratified the lisbon treaty in mid-2008. what would happen to the credibility of the decisions and international commitments of a member state of the united kingdom which ratified the treaty and threatened to suspend its decision, its commitment, perhaps two years later?
the voters in ireland have given serious and thoughtful consideration and have ratified the treaty of lisbon by a two-thirds majority. we are delighted and proud that the contract will allow for further expansion. the only ones who still think are president vaclav klaus and the czech constitutional court. i come from the former yugoslavia, and as far as i can remember, we used to cheer for czechoslovakia, not just in hockey when they played the soviet union, but always and everywhere. after the invasion of the warsaw pact forces during the prague spring, we have always stood in solidarity with them. but this time i cannot and must not do so, because it would be to the detriment of the european union, my country, the future candidate countries. i have to say publicly that we are concerned and we will not be blackmailed. i therefore call on the political leaders and the public of the candidate countries and future candidate countries to let the president of the czech republic know that he is playing with our destinies and theirs. it's time this game ended, and it's time to end it now.
your honor, i thank the minister and the commissioner for their statements, but i have a concern. i am thinking of the quantitative targets for 2020 and 2050, and the experts are telling us that we need to start reducing global emissions in 2015, and i wonder if the commission has perhaps overlooked or abandoned this target. then the second thing: in copenhagen we need a comprehensive agreement that will involve all countries. we will achieve little by demanding high environmental standards in europe alone and by moving high-emission technologies to other parts of the world. i would therefore really like to hear from the commission how it intends to ensure that the burden of developing countries is equally shared by the developed countries and how it will use its arguments to ensure that developing countries take responsibility. how do we stop the carbon leakage, the carbon leakage? i really wish we had some ace in the hole, some secret good card. third point: we must not turn a blind eye to reality. fossil fuels are the main source of emissions, and we're not going to stop that in the short term. it is unrealistic to expect countries to simply abandon coal mining. developed countries will not do this, much less developing countries. therefore, they should also pay great attention in international negotiations to the further development and use of technologies that enable the efficient use of fossil fuels without greenhouse gas emissions. and there is something else that europe can do right now: we can increase the financial contribution to the seventh framework programme, which is dedicated to international cooperation on climate change.
madam president, mr commissioner, representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, audience, visitors, also from slovenia, welcome. let me just briefly remind you of one fact: copenhagen may not be coming at the right time. we live in a time of crisis and it is difficult to decide on such big and important things as will be decided during the copenhagen summit in december. but i would like to stress that copenhagen will only be a success story if it maintains both its ecological and social function. if we can reduce or agree to reduce emissions into space. here, the council and the commission still need to agree on the desired percentages by 2020, and whether it will also ensure sustainable development, whether it will also have a social function, whether we will succeed in developing part of the world enabling financing in particular for developing countries. if it doesn't, i think this generation is going to miss out on a tremendous historical opportunity.
i would like to express my support for the fundamental objectives of our strategy, which is to prevent the climate from warming by more than two degrees on average. this is a strategy based primarily on limiting less greenhouse gases, less temperature rise. but i would like to draw attention to another component, namely the technological breakthroughs that are needed. i believe in technology. we're not going to achieve our goals by limiting ourselves. we need more investment in technological breakthroughs, particularly in the artificial reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and in the development of fusion reactors, and i call on the commission to address these investments more and more.
member of the commission. − i was just consulting my chef de cabinet to give you as precise an answer as possible. as far as my information goes, eur 8 million was allocated for the whole year of volunteering. i believe that with appropriate planning – which i hope we could start very soon once the decision is taken – and this amount of money we can really highlight the importance of volunteering, the benefits it brings to social life and the savings it brings to the organisation of societal, cultural and other activities. i hope that we can definitely achieve the goals you mentioned in your question with this amount of money.
member of the commission. − this question is still related to a certain extent to my previous answer as to how we can combine better dietary practices, how we can promote a healthier lifestyle, and how we can bring european value added to the national policies in these areas. i should first of all mention that the commission’s white paper ‘a strategy for europe on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues’ highlighted the importance of taking proactive steps to reverse the decline in physical activity, and the actions suggested in the area of physical activity in this white paper and in the white paper on sport mutually reinforce and complement each other. the commission has created a high level group on nutrition and physical activity where officials from all member states can exchange policy ideas and best practices and gain an overview of all government policies in this area. as you probably know, this high level group meets at least three times a year. through the public health programme, the commission has been giving support to initiatives, among others, to network local partnerships targeting nutrition and physical activity in young people. coming back to the white paper on nutrition, i have to underline that this paper highlights that the private sector and ngos have very important roles to play in helping us to ensure that there will be an actual decline in obesity levels. the work of the european platform on diet, physical activity and health is ongoing, and platform members commit themselves to actions in their area to try to reverse the trend. in the area of sport, the white paper remains the single most important reference point. it foresees several actions in the area of sport and health, known under the concept of ‘health-enhancing physical activity’ (hepa), which include the support of the hepa network. it also proposed more funding opportunities for projects in this area, namely in the context of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, the eu public health programme, the youth and citizenship programmes and the lifelong learning programme. the eu physical activity guidelines adopted in 2008 can also be regarded as a contribution to informing citizens about the benefits of physical activity and maintaining an appropriate balance between nutrition and physical activity. the commission is currently implementing a preparatory action in the field of sport in order to prepare future eu actions in accordance with the budgetary decisions taken by parliament, and the 2009 preparatory action has already provided a clear indication about the high interest in the area of hepa, with 64 % of the applications for the action being in this area.
member of the commission. − i think your angle is absolutely right because, if you go to a fitness centre today, even before you actually get to the machine you see the shelves full of different kinds of products, dietary supplements, energy drinks and so on. you are absolutely right that this area is very big business and that we should think very carefully about how to approach it and how to find an appropriate balance in offering the possibility for sports people to have good products but at the same time ensuring that they have proper information about what kind of products they are using. i think an information campaign on the negative consequences of this type of product would be very important. at consumer protection level these products must be very clearly described and it must be very clearly marked what kind of harmful consequences the consumption of these products could bring upon sportsmen. i think that you are absolutely right in saying that we have to think how we can avoid the negative consequences of taking part in sport and then totally wiping out the benefits by using products which are actually harmful to health.
member of the commission. − i would also like to thank the honourable member for this question. it is clear he is trying to explore all possible avenues of how to help and improve the situation in this theatre. i have to start by underlining that community action in the field of culture is based on article 151, which provides that community action shall be aimed at encouraging cooperation between member states and, if necessary, supporting and supplementing their action. however, the decision on the allocation of national funds to cultural institutions belongs to member states, and no community competence allows the commission to influence such choices. nevertheless, intercultural dialogue and the promotion of cultural diversity are key objectives of the european cultural agenda, and transnational projects in this field may therefore be eligible for community support under the culture programme. it aims, more specifically, at encouraging creativity and mobility of artists, public access to culture, the dissemination of art and culture, intercultural dialogue and knowledge of the history and cultural heritage of the peoples of europe. only projects with a european dimension can be financed, meaning at least three – or, in the case of multiannual projects, six – organisations from different member states must participate in the project. operating grants for a single cultural institution are only possible if the activities are carried out at european level in at least seven countries participating in the cultural programme. it should also be mentioned that the commission has developed a strategy to promote multilingualism in the european union which covers official, national, regional, minority and migrant languages. the communication of september 2008, ‘multilingualism: an asset for europe and a shared commitment’, confirms commission support for all languages spoken in the community, including the languages spoken by minorities. this strategy is implemented in close cooperation with the member states, who remain, however, the decision-makers with respect to internal language policy. the promotion of language learning and linguistic diversity is also one of the general objectives of the lifelong learning programme. under this programme the european union supports projects and networks to promote all languages present in the eu, including minority languages. in addition to that, it must be stressed that the protection of persons belonging to minorities is one of the principles on which the union is founded. therefore, the commission considers that member states must use all available legal instruments in order to guarantee the rights of individuals – including those belonging to national minorities – and act proactively against all sources of discrimination. the european commission reaffirms its commitment to the protection of fundamental rights and non-discrimination.
commissioner, thank you for your answer, which in principle answers the question. but this is not a problem of principle, it's a very concrete and life-changing problem. the commission thinks that this is a matter for the member states, but this european parliament thinks that things are not working in italy, and that is why we are voting here tomorrow on a resolution which is the result of the debate on media freedom in italy. the commission simply thinks that it has no competence to do so, and we maintain, by a majority, that the commission can deal with these issues as well. the minority issue is not just a civil rights issue. it is also a question of the responsibility and duty of the state to respect the rights of minorities. i am very pleased, commissioner, that you have spoken about discrimination and anti-discrimination. but no minority survives unless it is a victim of affirmative action. a minority needs more understanding, more help, more moral, political, even financial support if it wants to survive. this is positive discrimination. and in this case, commissioner, it is an institution that was created by the authorities of the country i am talking about. it's been in operation for over 40 years, over 50 years, but every year it's the same story. there is no guarantee of funds until the end of the year, which is a form of political pressure, and as you know, all slavic nations have the same saying: an empty bag does not stand up. concrete financial measures are needed.
we are just ahead of the copenhagen conference, but unfortunately we have only made a small step forward since last year's conference, and we should have made a much bigger and more decisive one. we have not only a problem with funding, but also with how to... to accept the commitment of each country to reduce emissions. the role of the industrialized countries must be made visible and a clear message must be sent to the united states of america. the problem is that we know that they won't even accept the legislative requirements within their own country until december. i think we should make clear our expectation that obama will deliver on one of his most important campaign promises - that america will play a proactive role in the fight against climate change, and i think we should make clear our expectation that obama will help bring the conference to a successful conclusion with his personal presence.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president of the council, madam commissioner, dear former colleagues of the european convention, ladies and gentlemen. i congratulate rapporteur elmar brok on the very clear position taken by the european parliament on the issues relating to the establishment of the european external action service. the establishment of this service is a logical and necessary consequence of the decision to merge the two foreign policy functions into one and is essential for the development of the european union's foreign policy identity. integrated diplomacy means simplification, more coherence and efficiency, as well as more visibility and recognition. the setting up of a joint office is not merely a technical matter but a political objective pursued by the european union in bringing together the high representative and the vice-president of the european commission. the development of the new service should be based on the same spirit that led to the merger of the two external policy functions that is, the merging of the council's and the commission's external policy efforts. it is important that the service be set up with due regard for the roles and cooperation of the commission, the council and the parliament and be based on mutual trust and a willingness to cooperate. i believe that it is in the interest of the european union that the single service should start as soon as possible, but i strongly support the recommendation that it should be introduced gradually in order to achieve its most appropriate and efficient form. i think it is very appropriate to stress that the service must become part of the commission's administrative structure, both in terms of organisation and budget. it seems to me extremely important that the future service should also include staff from national diplomatic services, which will undoubtedly mean a better and more accessible service for european union citizens, especially for those countries with a smaller number of diplomatic missions.
mr president, i think we are giving the green light today to a very important acquisition by the european union in its quest for a greater and more important role in global foreign policy in the world. thank you, mr. brock, for a very thorough and very substantive report. i think it is important that the new service is complementary to the existing services that will remain in the member states of the european union. i think it is also important not to duplicate or even triple the european union's representation in the world. this danger seems real to me. finally, i think that the role of the consular function of these new representations should be emphasised. small countries do not have much money and do not have representation all over europe and the world, so they have high hopes for this joint service. we in slovenia have had a good experience of cooperation with austrian diplomacy. we want to keep this cooperation as a model for the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, we welcome the impartial and independent investigation and subsequent report on the 2008 conflict in georgia by the international fact-finding mission headed by swiss diplomat heidi tagliavini. before the outbreak of hostilities on the night of 7/8 august 2008 in south ossetia, which caused many civilian casualties, we witnessed months of provocations from all sides. the russian military action, including the invasion of georgia, was disproportionate and unjustified. both sides in the conflict have committed violations of international humanitarian law, as confirmed by the report and by various organizations, such as human rights watch. what do we do now? russia must fully comply with the ceasefire agreement. in particular, it must withdraw from the territories it occupied after 7 august 2008. to allow members of the european union monitoring mission and international agencies, including the united nations, immediate, free and unrestricted access to south ossetia to monitor the ceasefire and provide humanitarian assistance. an estimated twenty-five to thirty thousand georgians are still displaced from their homes in south ossetia. de facto authorities in south ossetia must allow them to return to their homes. the territorial integrity of georgia must not be called into question. but we are concerned about the signs of authoritarianism in georgia. abuse of the legal system by the president, growing intolerance of dissent, diminishing freedom of speech, sometimes confrontational nationalist rhetoric are hurting georgia. only with the ideals that georgia supported in the rose revolution can this country return to a pro-european and democratic path and become attractive to others in the region. all actors should make good use of the possibilities offered by the geneva talks. the situation in the caucasus must be taken seriously at the next eu-russia summit.
madam president, commissioner, i was in tbilisi myself last september. the issue of georgia's territorial integrity and stability has a strong impact on the stability of the wider region, which is unfortunately very stable in its instability. there is not one truth, but many truths, and often they contradict each other. when nerves give way to decisive policy, the consequences are unpredictable and far-reaching. the direct and indirect damage is great, and the consequences are first and foremost for the innocent. the intervention of great powers and the cheering of one side or the other is not the way to success. we need measures to build and strengthen trust, which is not there. the caucasus is complex, and like the balkans, it has more history than it can digest and master. simplicity and xenophobia are not the way to success, and disregard for the rights and legitimate needs of minorities is a major cause of conflict. the reasons are broader and include economic, energy and geopolitical issues. geopolitics, however, requires the responsible action of the great powers, for where elephants roam, grass does not grow well. we have to tell the elephants that all the grass is not and will not be theirs.
i'm very much in favor of keeping the agenda unchanged. i was part of a delegation of the european people's party which had the opportunity to visit honduras to learn about the situation there, and it is a misconception that the elections on 29 november will take place because of the events in june. the elections were called six months earlier and have no particular connection with subsequent political developments, nor could these developments have influenced the emergence of new candidates. and i think the november 29th elections are part of the solution, not part of the problem. i think there are good reasons for us to maintain the agenda and support the democratic development of this country in the future.
i support the approach that was reflected in the speeches of both the high representatives of the presidency and the commission. i think that with the topics set out in this way, the dialogue between russia and the european union can be beneficial, beneficial for both sides. today was a day of celebration here, remembering the fall of the berlin wall. but what we didn't remember was that somehow, at that time, a very important wall in russia had fallen, that russia had begun a transition that continues today, and russia is better today than it was before the berlin wall fell, and sometimes we have to take that kindly for granted. sometimes we have to admit that to this important partner and not let ourselves be carried away by the emotions of our history. we need russia as a global partner in world politics and as a partner in the european union's relations with russia, but that does not mean we have to compromise on the fundamental values that others have spoken about and i do not have time.
madam vice-president, i am pleased with the progress in relations and the maturity of the croatian and slovenian governments, which have taken a major political step forward. by signing the border arbitration agreement, they have presented a good message and a great example to the countries in the region. unfortunately, a few days after the signing, the prime minister of croatia also signed a unilateral statement interpreting the signed agreement in her own way. we must not sow and propagate doubt, for it does not guide us into the future. one-sided statements and one-sided actions are not the right choice, not the right message. such an act does not enhance credibility, does not create the necessary mutual trust and increases doubts as to the seriousness of the intentions, the reality and feasibility of the agreement. success requires hard work and building trust at home, with neighbours and in the region. i call on the government of the republic of croatia to refrain from further unilateral actions, and i ask the prime minister to show political courage, determination, and help overcome the blockades of the past.
the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable vice-president of the european commission, mr barrot, and all the members present. the european parliament strongly supports the abolition of the visa regime for all western balkan countries. this is also our main message, which guided us in the preparation of the report. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the members and the members in particular, because without them, we could not have achieved this result. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for their joint work, which will certainly provide a good basis for future cooperation in this area, especially after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, when parliament will be co-deciding on the type of procedures. the visa regime has isolated western balkan citizens for too long, who today have fewer rights to travel freely than they did in the days of the former yugoslavia. young people in the western balkans now know about europe almost as much as they do about america, from the internet and television. as i come from slovenia, i can remind you that it was the slovenian presidency that, at the beginning of 2008, five years after the signature of the thessaloniki agenda, which provides a clear european perspective for the people of the western balkans, launched the process of visa liberalisation. i welcome the commission's proposal to abolish visas for macedonia, serbia and montenegro and particularly welcome the initiative of slovenia, strongly supported by the member states, to allow their citizens to travel freely to the schengen countries from 19 december. 1 january 2010 would present a logistical problem, as many of the nationals of these countries travel to visit relatives living in the member states during the new year's holiday period. visa liberalisation will greatly contribute to and benefit regional cooperation and overcome ethnic divisions, building cultural, social, economic and political bridges. ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of visas for three countries is a very good step in the right direction. however, i would like to stress that countries which have been exempted from the visa waiver should be allowed to join as soon as possible, when they are ready. i am, of course, referring to bosnia and herzegovina and albania. we must not allow more isolated people to exist, to become more isolated when their neighbours enjoy the possibility of unhindered travel to the european union. of course, they have to be prepared for that. it's not about lowering the bar. we want to send a clear political message to the citizens of both countries. we are waiting for you, you must encourage your governments to do their jobs, and we will do everything to avoid delays caused by the decision-making process in the european union. i can say that this approach has received very broad support in two committees, both in the foreign affairs committee and in my own committee on civil liberties, home affairs and justice. i would also add that i will be asking for the floor tomorrow after the vote and presenting a special political statement, a joint statement by the european parliament and the council of the european union, which strongly supports the abolition of visas for all the western balkan countries. in the resolution, which will also be voted on separately tomorrow, we welcome the date of 19 december for the abolition of visas for macedonia, serbia and montenegro, and we call on the european commission to prepare a proposal for the abolition of visas for bosnia and herzegovina and albania as soon as they meet the conditions. we are committed to the expedited procedure. i would like to see a clear, even clearer date for the visa waiver for bosnia and herzegovina and albania, but i am aware of the complexity of the procedures and hope that it is realistic to expect visa waiver in the summer. i just want to finish. we must not forget about kosovo, so that it does not remain a black hole on the map... (the president cut off the speaker) i just want to conclude: the european union has a political responsibility to complete the visa liberalisation process and i expect broad support in the european parliament tomorrow.
the abolition of visas for western balkan citizens to travel to the european union has a political dimension as well as a technical one. today we rightly celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and of real socialism in our parliament. skopje, podgorica and belgrade will finally celebrate the fall of the nearly 20-year-old visa wall that separated them from us in the european union this christmas and new year. for almost 20 years, most of the people of the former yugoslavia lived without the freedom to travel in europe that they had enjoyed as citizens of the failed socialist federation. this one-generation isolation has begun to take its toll and it's high time we put an end to it. the macedonians, montenegrins and serbs should be joined by the bosnians and herzegovins, albanians and kosovars as soon as possible in 2010. only in this way will the new generations in these countries finally be able to see and experience the outside world, to make contacts with other europeans, to contribute to the development of european values at home and to prepare their nations for full membership of our common european story the european union. as the european parliament's rapporteur for macedonia, i'm getting a lot of calls these days from people in different balkan countries. i want to assure them loud and clear: your visa-free travel to the eu is not a substitute for your entry into the eu, your free travel to the eu is your step towards full eu membership.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, thank you to all those who have very broadly supported the move to abolish visas for the first three balkan countries. you have both stressed that freedom of movement is obviously very desirable. as mr moraes said, it is beneficial for both sides, for europe and for the balkan states. i would simply like to say, madam president, in thanking all the speakers and in particular the rapporteur, mrs fajon, that since the decisions have already been taken in part or in large measure for fyrom, montenegro and serbia, we have not stopped helping albania, which i visited personally, and bosnia and herzegovina, precisely to help them to make progress. and we will continue. i think that the very rapid adoption of this resolution is a good precursor to how we can then quickly move on to other states and, in particular, bosnia and herzegovina and albania, not forgetting of course kosovo.
rapporteur. − mr president, once again i thank all those who made contributions, which prove that the european union strongly supports visa liberalisation for all the countries of the western balkans. i regret that the swedish minister was not here, because we had very good cooperation. i welcome the commission’s commitment to do everything possible to accelerate the process for bosnia and herzegovina, and albania, and i hope both countries will introduce visa-free regimes once they meet the criteria – as soon as possible, possibly in summer next year. i want to say that i involved everyone in this, and i am fully aware of what the treaties prescribe. but this is a political house, and we all do serious politics as best we can. once again, i welcome the abolition of visas for macedonia, serbia and montenegro on 19 december, and i really hope that bosnia and herzegovina, and albania can follow as soon as possible. we are talking about the destiny of the young generation. it is our political responsibility to finish this visa liberalisation process, and we also have to find a solution for all the people in kosovo. thank you very much for your cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a good month ago i had the opportunity to get to know the political situation in honduras in detail as a member of a special delegation of the political group of the european people's party. our delegation first visited the president of costa rica, mr arias, who, as the mediator of the crisis, recognised by the international community, presented the san josé agreement. in honduras, we met with the current president micheletti, the deposed president zelayo, the foreign minister, the judges of the supreme court, the supreme electoral tribunal, the president of the national congress, the attorney general, as well as four presidential candidates and other important interlocutors. both sides have welcomed our mission and expressed their willingness to engage in dialogue. despite the different interpretations of the events at the end of june this year, it is very important to me that there has been no escalation of violence since the replacement of president zelaya, which was carried out on the basis of a decision by the supreme court. in our talks, we advocated political dialogue in the spirit of president arias' proposal. the internal dialogue was also held later, but unfortunately it did not bring about a final result. i think we must continue to insist on a political agreement. in our conversations with key political actors, we have established that the elections of november 29 are not the result of a political change, but were called earlier by an autonomous decision of the supreme electoral court, even during the time of president zelaya. there have been no new presidential candidates since june. the presidential candidates themselves have particularly stressed that they do not want the political crisis to relativize the importance of the presidential elections, the preparations for which were initiated on the basis of democratic decisions. honduras is one of the central american countries with which the european union wishes to conclude an association agreement. the political crisis has interrupted the accession negotiation process. since the further democratic development of honduras is in the interest of the european union, i think it is very important that the european parliament sends its observers to the presidential elections.
rapporteur. − mr president, as announced yesterday in the debate, a political joint declaration of the european parliament and the council has been agreed as a commitment of the two institutions endorsed by the commission to proceed to the completion of the process for bosnia and albania as soon as possible. i would now like to read the text of the declaration. ‘the european union strongly supports the goal of the abolition of the visa regime for all the countries of the western balkans. the european parliament and the council recognise that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia fulfil all conditions for visa liberalisation. this has allowed for the adoption of the amendments to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 in due time to allow these three countries to join the visa-free regime by 19 december 2009. the european parliament and the council express the hope that albania and bosnia and herzegovina will also qualify for visa liberalisation soon. to that end, the european parliament and the council urge those two countries to make all efforts to comply with all the benchmarks set in the commission’s road map. the european parliament and the council invite the commission to present a legislative proposal for amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 as soon as it has assessed that each country meets the benchmarks of the road maps with a view to achieving visa liberalisation for citizens of these countries as soon as possible. the european parliament and the council will examine a proposal for amending the regulation concerning albania and bosnia and herzegovina as a matter of urgency.’
we shall soon have the opportunity to hear from the candidate for high representative for foreign affairs in this parliament. it will also be a kind of test and response for us as to the influence that the european union can have on the middle east peace process and whether the european union can even play any active role in solving these problems. we have not been particularly successful, and my colleague who spoke before me illustrated this in a bit more detail. these days, the vicious circle in the middle east continues, hamas terrorists have fired rockets, israel has responded disproportionately, again it is difficult to separate civilians from war victims. i think we must not lose sight for a moment of the attention we owe to the middle east peace process.
first of all, i want to strongly protest what my colleague said before me about the protection of minorities in slovenia. slovenia has high standards for the protection of minorities and we can only wish that the slovenian minority in our neighbouring countries would have similar rights. now for the other thing. in the age of information technology, people exchange information very quickly. the more alarming the news, the faster it spreads. the truth of the information is of secondary importance. of particular interest are the news items that affect people's health and diet. thus, in the last few weeks, an e-mail about the codex alimentarius has been circulated in slovenia, and it is completely false. in such cases, meps can put a question to the european commission and wait for a professional answer for weeks. however, action should be taken immediately, since the damage is also done in a very short time. i therefore propose that the european commission consider setting up a web-based information point for citizens, where citizens would have direct contact with the commission and would receive a reply within three days at the latest.
mr president, two azerbaijani youth activists and bloggers, emin abdullayev and adnan hajizade, have been sentenced to two and a half years and two years respectively, in an unfair trial. the charges against them were fabricated and they have been imprisoned solely for exercising their right to freedom of expression and association. the azerbaijani authorities must release the prisoners of conscience adnan hajizade and emin abdullayev immediately and unconditionally. the council, the commission and the member states of the european union must raise the issue of democracy and human rights with the azerbaijani government. it must be reminded that democratisation is one of the goals of the eastern partnership, and azerbaijan is part of that initiative. azerbaijan has to live up to its obligations as a member of the council of europe and partner of the european union.
i am an optimist and i agree with swedish minister carlgren that we must succeed. and i would add that to succeed, we must act with seriousness, clarity and transparency in pursuit of the goal. my first point: the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at european and global level. we don't take the liberty of judging technologies and endorsing some and condemning others. we have to be technologically neutral. we need to open the door wide for the use of existing low-carbon technologies and for the development of new ones. climate change action must not be turned into a competition between individual low-carbon technologies. if we want to be successful, we have to seriously consider using all the technologies available. secondly, at cop15, we need the eu representatives to make it clear that more money for third countries and their commitments to sustainable development are the package. how can we explain to taxpayers that we have committed ourselves to financing the sustainable development of third countries without receiving any commitment from them to convince us of the intended use of the funds? we need commitment, and we need control. and thirdly, i said in the november debate that we need to tell president obama that we want him to come to cop15. this time, this morning, i heard the news that obama had confirmed his arrival in copenhagen and that he would be committing to binding targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that seems to me to indicate that our decision to press on with the political pressure is the right one. and let me conclude by saying that i want my message to be clear. we need to act now. we want a legally binding agreement and we demand that other countries act responsibly.
the european council in december will be dealing with very important issues. this will be the first council since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and colleagues have mentioned what all these issues will be. i would also like to draw attention to a very important issue, which is sometimes forgotten and which affects the stability of europe as a whole and of the european union: the question of macedonia. macedonia has been a candidate country for the last four years and has lived in a neighbourhood for practically the last 18 years with a near-frozen conflict with its southern neighbour, a traditional member of the european union. this means that we also have in europe, in the heart of europe, you could say, frozen conflicts. this year has been a very good year for macedonia. in 2009, macedonia made great progress, received a positive report from the commission, a recommendation to the council to decide that macedonia should open full membership negotiations, a visa waiver on 20 december and elections in greece. i appeal to the representatives of the council, the commission and the member states to support the two courageous men, mr papandreou and mr gruevski, so that they can finally find a solution and macedonia can join the great european family.
i am pleased to note that we are now in the first council meeting under the lisbon treaty. i wish the first permanent president of the council, mr herman van rompuy, every success. i'm very fond of his vision of how we can work together in unity while respecting our differences. the new institutional set-up was adopted with the aim of making our decision-making closer to the citizen, simpler, more democratic, more transparent and more efficient. in this sense, there is much talk of a strong europe. the fundamental question is what concept of power we are developing, or what we can build a strong europe on. the european union's success and strength to date are based on two key ideas of the founding fathers of europe. the first is respect for human dignity, the second is working together. it means that we think of others when we consider our own interests, whether they are individuals, peoples, minorities or nations. today we must ask ourselves again, with all responsibility, what it means to respect human dignity, what it means to be a man in the middle. this issue is most closely linked to the stockholm programme. many speakers have spoken of fundamental freedoms and security, and yet we have very different views on when human rights begin. i hope we can at least agree that a man's rights begin before he becomes a citizen. i am one of those who believe that the first article of the charter of fundamental rights of the union must be applied to the whole of human life, from beginning to end. especially those who cannot protect themselves must be protected. if we are to protect human liberty, we must first protect human life itself. i'm glad that so many speakers used the words working together and working in partnership. europe's strength lies in what it does together, whether it is in the humanitarian or intergovernmental method. there are more and more challenges that require more and more political will. and working together again doesn't mean losing your identity.
we are here today to adopt a resolution which is awaited with great interest and great concern in many countries of south-eastern europe. this resolution speaks a different language than was spoken in south-east europe a few years ago. that's actually the biggest motivation and the driving force for today's discussion. i think it is important that both the words of the representative of the presidency and the commission and those of our president of the afet, who made it possible to adopt such a rich and substantive resolution, should convey our support for the european perspective of all countries, and i would say particularly turkey. only with the prospect of enlargement and the inclusion of all countries do certain issues in this region, such as the tendency towards further fragmentation of the former yugoslavia, the states of the former yugoslavia, border problems and occasional expressions of intolerance on religious grounds and the like, become somewhat less dangerous for the wider area. so today we can safely conclude that the project of peace and progress in this once critical part of europe is continuing.
congratulations to commissioner rehn and to the chairman, minister bildt, for their constructive and positive opening remarks. as rapporteur for macedonia, i am particularly pleased that the country made progress in 2009 and received a commission recommendation to set the council a date for the start of negotiations. we know that direct communication has begun between the presidents of the governments papandreou and gruevski. i call on the president-in-office, mr bildt, commissioner rehn and the governments of the member states concerned to pick up the phone in the days before the december summit, to contact prime minister papandreou and prime minister gruevski, to express solidarity with them and to encourage them in their determination to find a solution to this 20-year-old conflict. only in this way will greece, as a traditional member of the european union, be able to fulfil its ambitions and responsibilities in the region.
serbia has made progress in recent months and, by fulfilling the commitments made under the visa waiver plan, has shown itself and europe that it can do much more and better than it has shown so far. he deserves all the credit for his success. serbia has hidden potentials that it must activate on its path to the european union, for the benefit of serbia, its neighbours, the entire region and the european union. given its size and strategic position, it could be a driving force for regional convergence, and it is time it realised this and did more to expand than it has done so far. the belgrade office must systematically devote itself to the necessary political and economic reforms and to cooperation with all its neighbours. it is not enough to cooperate fully with the hague, it is also necessary to complete the cooperation successfully. it is essential to raise the level of political culture, as the current practice could make the accession process difficult. transparency is needed, as well as the active search for the widest possible public consensus and the overcoming of the coalition/opposition divide on key european union issues. freedom and independence of the media and an end to media manipulation are necessary preconditions if the country is to progress faster.
this week, on saturday night, citizens of macedonia, serbia and montenegro will finally be able to travel freely to the european union again, without a visa, after more than two decades. this is going to be a big day and a chance to celebrate. but i would like to take this moment to call again on the european commission and the council to do everything possible to abolish visas as soon as possible in bosnia and herzegovina and albania as well. we cannot afford to lose time and create new divisions in the western balkans, especially at the expense of the younger generation. it is hard to imagine that the young people there today are still largely unfamiliar with the european union. it is our responsibility to remove the new visa walls that have arisen in the western balkans since the fall of the berlin wall. and for the people who live in kosovo. the western balkans need a clear european perspective. let us not be overwhelmed by unjustified fears!
i am not in favour of the language of sanctions and threats, but of constructive policy and dialogue, and i fear that the word 'israel is a democratic state' has been uttered too many times here today. israel is a country that does not behave democratically when it comes to the palestinians and when it comes to our common goal: the establishment of two independent, self-reliant and secure states that live side by side. i think that you have received a great deal of encouragement today, baroness, for a more constructive, more effective policy of the european union, which unfortunately, unfortunately, israel still sees as a paper tiger, rather than as a serious entity with which to establish a dialogue and which may also be useful in solving the problem.
i thank the swedish presidency for its correct and responsible leadership, as you yourself have said, in a time of institutional change and economic and financial crisis. perhaps you have missed an opportunity to promote a wider european discourse on a different socio-economic model than the one that brought us into crisis. in sweden, you know more about this than some people do. you also struck a chord with the bitter realization of the limits of what is common in the european union, especially when we elected the leadership of the european union. you've set some new standards in foreign policy, for example in the middle east, and i thank you for that. i also thank you for your attention to the enlargement of the european union and for addressing, together with the commission, some of the open questions that have been standing in the way of this process. the job well done!
i think that the action programme for afghanistan only makes sense if it underlines some of our european policy, a european approach to afghanistan. we are already in deep trouble and we cannot simply follow the decisions of our great allies and surprise us with some of their strategic decisions. i think it is important that this action plan gives clear priority to civil initiatives. i think we should bury the idea of military victory. you can't win in a territory where the population considers all of us who are there to help to be occupiers and the taliban to be the so-called armed people. i would like to join all those who have stressed the need for a regional solution, for the involvement of the regional states bordering afghanistan to a greater extent. they trust... have more trust in people.
ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with one important issue, namely the mutual recognition of qualifications within the european union, and this is a major problem in itself, given that qualifications come from the education system, and we have at least 27 such qualifications in the european union. some of you may remember that last year, in march last year, we introduced the european qualifications framework, the european qualifications framework, which is a mechanism that allows education systems to compare with each other. but the problem with this qualification framework is that it has not been implemented by the member states, not as a whole or at least as a transferable translator of different qualifications, professions, skills, levels of education. i think that the member states, in particular, have a great task ahead of them, and if they actually implement the european qualifications framework, which has already been adopted at the level of the european institutions, then comparison and mutual recognition of qualifications in education will be much easier.
