madam president, i would like to thank you. it is unusual for a convinced eu sceptic like me to be able to praise a proposal and recommend that the house vote in favour. that is because we are dealing with transboundary environmental problems. we are aware of the possibilities of the single market. normally, however, the proposals are unreasonably bureaucratic - not so in this case. this is a proposal that avoids red tape. our speakers are on the right track. this suggests strict and tight control. the use of poisons such as alcohol and tobacco should be an individual decision. as a collective, we should be able to protect ourselves from poisoning. this is the proposal. at the same time, there is the flexibility, the mutual recognition, the zoning, the right of nations to ban pesticides beyond those listed here, which is very good. pesticides already authorised shall not be withdrawn. i find this rather dubious. we should be very strict about poisons of this kind. i would remind you that our colleague, mr mote, pointed out the risk that citizens will buy from other countries when we introduce stricter rules in the eu. i don't think he did. it is important to state that these are products from eu member states. then people will buy this. i therefore recommend that the house vote in favour of this excellent compromise.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by thanking my colleague from the liberal group, mr klinz, for a very good job. in a turbulent time like this autumn, the rapporteur has managed to find a reasonable compromise, as we have already heard. even without a financial crisis, these issues are difficult to deal with. i know this very well, because in 2001 i was responsible for piloting the ucits. the aim of ucits funds is not only to create a better and larger fund market, but also an open and consumer-friendly market. and that has happened on a large scale. many obstacles were removed in 2001. i'd like to remind you that it wasn't exactly easy back then either. besides, it was before the lamfalussy trial. however, some obstacles remain, and these obstacles are now being addressed. marketing is improving. it will be a stronger protection for investors. the merger of funds and master-feeder structures will be possible, and cooperation between supervisory authorities will be strengthened, as also mentioned by the commissioner. a sensitive issue has been the rules on the management company passport. we have already heard comments on this. we are aware of the different positions. i do think, however, that the proposals before us are good. competition and transparency are always good in a well-ordered market. another important issue has been the simplified investor information, which replaces the simplified prospectus. they must strike a balance between relevant information and efficiency. too much information is not good, nor is too little. the question of language, which is certainly a sensitive one, but i think we must dare to raise it if we want to boost crossborder trade even further. here too, a reasonable balance is required. europe needs a well-functioning financial market, as was shown in the autumn. ucits has paved the way and become a success and a valued brand also outside europe. let us be vigilant in this respect, as this proposal is.
in writing. - the report on the cap and global food security discusses important issues such as the impact of food price increases in poor and rich countries and the importance of ensuring food security for all. we swedish social democrats decided to vote against the report because it contains problematic texts on agricultural policy. we want, among other things, to reduce the share of agricultural policy in the eu budget, to maintain and develop cross-compliance and to adapt the system to the market. the report does not agree with these views, and that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - it's important that we fight and alleviate hunger. i therefore welcome the contents of the mairead mcguinness own-initiative report on the cap and the global food supply. yet i chose to cast my vote. this is because the report was in part strongly protectionist. subsidising and regulating our domestic agriculture does not serve our ambition for an open, green, secure and entrepreneurial europe. a freer world market for agricultural products makes it easier for people in poor countries to develop their farms. we are seeing this now, especially in large parts of africa.
in writing. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products. it reads: the european parliament calls on the council and the commission, in close cooperation with the acp countries, to give priority to the question of how these countries are affected by eu export subsidies for agricultural products and to commit themselves to delivering on their commitments in this area in a concrete and lasting way by avoiding dumping. the report argues, however, that the eu has addressed those aspects of eu agricultural policy which could distort trade and have negative consequences for farmers in developing countries. the report complains that non-eu countries produce according to very different production standards, which has created unfair conditions of competition for eu agricultural products. these two statements in the report are controversial to say the least and not something that all political forces in the eu agree with. if that were the case, could the committee on development's proposals also be included in the text of the report? the report also opposes reductions in agricultural aid and opposes reform of the common agricultural policy. the commission is also proposing a policy of informing the public about the common agricultural policy, which i regard as political propaganda for a system which is highly controversial, not least in my own country. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy. strengthening dialogue with civil society is essential to creating a europe that listens to and represents the views of its citizens. we also share the report's call for greater openness in the council's work to enable civil society to participate meaningfully in the dialogue. we would like to stress, however, that we think it is wrong to give churches and religious communities a special status among civil society organisations. churches and religious communities shall participate in the dialogue with the union institutions in the same way as other organisations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the grabowska report on the prospects for the development of civil dialogue under the lisbon treaty. i believe it is important to strengthen dialogue with civil society in order to create a europe that listens to and represents the views of its citizens. i also share the report's call for greater openness in the council's work to enable civil society to participate meaningfully in the dialogue. however, i do not think that there was any need to bring the treaty of lisbon into this, since it is no longer relevant after the irish people voted 'no' in the referendum. furthermore, it is wrong to give churches and religious communities a special status among civil society organisations. churches and religious communities shall participate in the dialogue with the union institutions in the same way as other organisations.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has not been adopted. it has been rejected by the voters of ireland in a referendum and must therefore be considered to have fallen. the same draft treaty had already been rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands. the federalist majority in the european parliament, however, does not want to listen and insists on an even more supranational union, despite the fact that citizens have shown their scepticism in several referendums and would show it in even more countries if they had the chance. this action by the federalist majority of the european parliament shows the kind of citizens' dialogue that is desired. you just want to listen to those from civil society who fit the federalist mold. the report before us, outside the legislative procedure, is not impressive. it states in paragraph 9 that all eu institutions should keep up-to-date records of all relevant ngos. it means an unnecessary increase in bureaucratic work that leads nowhere. the report also states in paragraph 11 that the aim is to promote an 'active european mindset' among the citizens of the union. what is the definition of this mindset? the worst part, however, is the call in paragraph 22 for european associations and civil society organisations to be given a common legal basis at eu level. once again, a building block for the eu state is proposed. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. we believe that the report does not make it clear that fisheries policy must be designed on the basis of environmental and sustainability criteria. the report also focuses too much on holding back the necessary reforms of fisheries policy and protecting the interests of the large-scale fishing industry.
in writing. - the report by mrs breyer on the placing of plant protection products on the market. the regulatory framework aimed at improving both food safety and the environmental impact of plant protection products is good and important. since the parliament's first reading, analyses have shown that the regulatory framework risks becoming very far-reaching and inflexible, and may make it impossible to grow common crops (such as carrots and onions) on a commercial scale in sweden. the situation is not improved by the fact that the impact assessments of the rules differ in essential conclusions, for example between the chemicals agency and its uk counterpart, the pesticides safety directorate. we regret that there has been no opportunity to vote on clarifications on this matter at the second reading of this parliament, but at the same time we note that the text adopted contains improvements compared with parliament's first reading. we would have liked the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council to have taken account of and clarified the rules so that they were more effective in prohibiting dangerous uses, but also continued to allow the necessary, responsible and safe plant protection which is now in danger of being prohibited.
in writing. - we support the report because we believe that sustainable public finances are very important. however, we reject the wording of paragraph 8 which says that there must be a gradual and sharp reduction in the tax burden on middle- and low-income earners and pensioners, with tax deductions, revised tax rates and compensation for higher marginal tax due to inflation. we believe that these are issues which should not be dealt with at eu level but which should be decided by the member states themselves.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the rapporteur, mr cappatto, has pointed out that there are major shortcomings in access to eu documents. i support the rapporteur's suggestions for improvements in the light of the annual report. i also support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. i also assume that parliament will vote in favour of a genuine principle of publicity in the forthcoming vote on the transparency regulation, the cashman report. in the annual report i would like to stress in particular that it is totally unacceptable that transparency is not guaranteed in the area of delegated legislation, which covers 90% of the legally binding acts adopted each year by the eu institutions. the participation of members in the work of parliament and all the financial relations of members in connection with their duties in parliament must also be fully public. i support the proposal for a unified public register. finally, greater transparency is not a populist demand but a democratic one.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. transparency is a virtue of democracy. in a democracy, the people elect the government. they appoint officials to implement democratic decisions. it would be absurd if these elected representatives and employees had the right to withhold information from their clients. there are two possible explanations for this. the first is the legacy of a pre-democratic society that saw the people as subjects of unelected rulers. the investigators were not allowed to pry into the affairs of the ruler. the second is that national security, respect for the integrity of citizens, trade secrets, market manipulation and the like may require exemptions from transparency. the first explanation is totally irrelevant today. the government, as the government, cannot withhold information from the people. the second explanation, on the other hand, is solid and involves difficult balancing. unfortunately, these legitimate demands for trade-offs are often used by the superior to preserve the possibility of secrecy. the eu has no proud tradition of openness. in the eu's childhood and early youth, almost everything was secret, including the commission's internal telephone directory. the eu started as a mandarin empire and still is, but important steps have been taken. the code of conduct of 1993, the acceptance of the requirements of the swedish journalists' association in 1998, the regulation in 2001. it is with a certain pride that i say that my own country, sweden, has the longest historical tradition of statutory transparency. that is why the swedish state intervened in the so-called turco case and caused the court of justice to overrule the council and the court of first instance this summer. this was another step away from the mandarin rule, but there is still a long way to go to establish democratic openness in the eu. there's a lot of internal resistance to crush. mr cappatto's report should therefore have the full support of the house - another step in the long march.
mr president, i would like to thank you. transparency, please. transparency has really undergone a dramatic change in the eu - i think the commissioner would agree with that - since we have had the implementation of regulation 1049 and the websites. i would also like to emphasize that i think that the commission and the commissioner have made very fine and good contributions to this issue in recent years. it was not easy at first, but i think the cooperation in recent years has been very good, and you should be commended for that. everyone is always shouting at the commission, which i do not think is fair in all circumstances. of course, it cannot be that the rif legislation is not transparent as regards the reasons. alexander alvaro is absolutely right. it's not possible. but to go so far as to require an official or a member of the european parliament, for example, to report every day on what he has done every day is quite unreasonable. finally, you spend half your day writing a report on what you've done. i would like to conclude by saying that we support the capato report as long as it leads to legal certainty, clear legislation that is not unnecessarily bureaucratic.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all apologise for the weakness of my voice, as i have a very heavy cold. you are about to vote on the proposal for a directive on the procurement of defence and security equipment, which the commission tabled in december 2007 as part of the so-called ‘defence package’. this proposal is a major step forward towards the establishment of a common european defence market, which, by itself, is an important contribution to the union’s security and defence policy. in other words, this directive is a politically highly important instrument which will help to strengthen europe’s defence capabilities, make public spending more efficient and enhance the security of our citizens. the negotiation process for the proposal has benefited from the close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission. therefore, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr lambsdorff, for his intensive and efficient work to achieve an agreement with the council in first reading. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. i also want to congratulate the french presidency, together with the slovenian presidency, for the way they successfully spurred the negotiations in council. and last but not least, i would like to thank the czech presidency for its commitment in finalising this file. the commission welcomes the text that we have now on the table. the new directive is tailor-made for defence and security procurement. it will give contracting authorities the flexibility they need to negotiate contracts which are often particularly complex and sensitive. it will also allow them to ask for specific security clauses to protect classified information and ensure their security of supply. all this makes the directive an instrument which member states can apply to most of their defence procurement without putting at risk their security interests. the new directive will also apply to sensitive procurements in the field of non-military security. this approach is in line with today’s strategic environment, in which transnational threats and new technologies have blurred the dividing line between military and non-military, internal and external security. public procurement cannot ignore these developments: in cases where equipment for police forces, for example, has features similar to those of defence equipment, it is only logical to make the same procurement rules applicable. all this will have major advantages: the new directive will make it possible for member states to limit the use of the derogation under article 296 of the ec treaty to exceptional cases. hence, the principles of the internal market will, at last, apply to important parts of defence and security markets in europe. fair and transparent procurement rules will become applicable throughout the union and allow companies to tender more easily in other member states. european industries will get a much larger ‘home’ market with longer production runs and economies of scale. this, in turn, will reduce costs and lead to lower prices. at the end, we will achieve greater openness of markets to the benefit of all: industries will become more competitive, armed forces will get better value for money, and taxpayers will benefit from more efficiency in public spending. all this is also the fruit of your work and your input. let me therefore once again thank you and congratulate you on this.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a european defence equipment market is not something that is created overnight, but the rapporteur has built up a trusting cooperation which has helped us to take a very important first step together with the council, and not least the commission. defence equipment is now clearly part of the internal market, which should help to bring prices down. the opening up of the market will lead to increased european competitiveness and more efficient production of equipment. the french government also deserves praise for its constructive role, but the rapporteur, mr lambsdorff, has certainly done the most. i would also like to thank the defence industry for its valuable contributions, which have increased flexibility. many elements of the 2004 procurement directive are reproduced here. at the same time, national security interests and special conditions such as security of supply and information are respected. the application of article 296 remains under the existing rules, but abuse is prevented. the industry should welcome it too. the implementation of the directive may continue to influence industry as well as the development of new practices. we in parliament are pleased that the council has agreed with us on thresholds and transparency, to take a few examples of the many successes of the european parliament, imco and the rapporteur. i am personally pleased that the most controversial issues have been resolved with existing ec law. if parliament, as i believe and hope, comes together in broad support for this report, a significant and logical step has been taken. a warm thanks to all colleagues and stakeholders who have participated in a constructive and exciting process.
member of the commission. − while the experiences with budgetary coordination have, overall, been positive, some lessons can be drawn. the analysis of the first 10 years reinforces the case for strengthening the effectiveness of budgetary surveillance in good times. it also shows the need to address broader issues which may affect the macroeconomic stability of a member state and the overall functioning of economic and monetary union. fiscal policy coordination should better guide national budgetary behaviour over the whole cycle – that is, both in good times and in bad times. increased attention should be paid to monitoring public debt developments while medium-term budgetary objectives should be strengthened to address implicit liabilities. all these kinds of developments call for deeper budgetary surveillance. but surveillance should also be broadened to take account of developments within member states that may affect budgetary sustainability, such as the growth of current account deficits, persistent inflation divergences, persistent divergences in the evolution of unit labour costs, or trends of unbalanced growth. surveillance must build on the existing instruments. the key instruments for fiscal policy surveillance and economic policy coordination are clearly anchored in the treaty and, indeed, in the stability and growth pact. the recent adoption of the european economic recovery plan by the commission on 26 november last year also breaks new ground as far as governance and budgetary coordination is concerned. it highlights the commission’s role as a catalyst for short-term emergency economic stabilisation policies. based on our own economic assessment, the commission has quickly set up a fully fledged and quantified economic response to the economic slowdown. the commission’s quick delivery is a response to the clear risks of bigger-than-ever national economic policies at this juncture. the recovery plan recognises the inherent division of tasks embedded into the eu economic policy framework. since member states are responsible for budgetary policy, the commission set a global target for additional fiscal stimulus, taking into account the amount needed to kick-start the eu economy as a whole. member states are free to devise the size and composition of their respective fiscal stimulus. it now implies challenges in terms of coordination and surveillance of the implementation of national measures. the commission and the ecofin council will jointly monitor the implementation of the national measures in compliance with the principles laid down in the recovery plan. looking forward, judicious implementation of the fiscal surveillance framework will anchor expectations of future fiscal developments. together with the strengthening of national budgetary frameworks and rules, and the implementation of reforms curbing the rise in age-related expenditure, this will ensure that sustainable positions are restored. it thus contains adverse effects of expectations of rising deficits and debt on risk premia and private consumption and investment.
member of the commission. − what is the role of the eurogroup? as you know, the eurogroup is right now, and will continue to be after the lisbon treaty comes into force, an informal body. so, the eurogroup cannot adopt formal decisions even when they relate only to euro-area members belonging to the ecofin council. but over the past three or four years, since we began with the presidency of jean-claude juncker, in particular, in january 2005, the eurogroup has improved the content of the discussion agenda. members of the eurogroup together with the commission and the ecb discuss this deeper budgetary surveillance and broader economic surveillance that i mentioned in my introductory remarks. the eurogroup often discusses other issues concerning the external role of the euro and the external dimension of euro are. tax issues, as you know very well, are a very delicate issue. according to the present treaty but also according to the lisbon treaty in the future, tax decisions require unanimity at eu level, and i do not foresee any kinds of changes in the decision-making framework in the near future.
first of all, i have the following question: if it has been so successful in these ten years, why do italy and greece, to take a few examples, have interest rates on ten-year government bonds that are a few percentage points above the german one? secondly: why does sweden have 0.4 percentage points lower 10-year interest rates than germany, and finland six tenths higher both well-managed countries?
i have a short question for the commissioner. i attended the excellent commission conference in december on the mid-term review of the budget. the commissioner then gave a very good, offensive speech on the importance of now proposing changes. however, we are now hearing rumours that no proposal for the mid-term review of the budget will be forthcoming until after the european parliament elections and the german federal elections in september. my question is simple: will the commissioner present any proposal for a mid-term review of the budget before the summer or only after the german federal elections?
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the commission for its statement. i think it is good that you are raising environmental issues, for example. we have a growing problem with the refineries in terms of contamination of pharmaceuticals. i want to see the strictest possible restrictions on advertising for medicines. i'm getting pretty tired of this myself. one night i was watching television, and a quarter of all the commercials were for over-the-counter medications. i would like the commission to carry out an impact assessment to see how much advertising has affected the sale of these medicines. is it reasonable that we have so much drug advertising on television, even for over-the-counter medicines? in sweden, we had an example of the gardasil vaccine, which hardly falls within the scope of over-the-counter or epidemiological vaccines. i would therefore like to see us tighten up the legislation in this area. as far as the falsification of medicines is concerned, i think it also has to do with our current patent system. it's going to be a very big difference in price. i think that a solution to better manage research needs in the public interest might be to introduce more price funds for medicines. for example, neglected tropical diseases, an area where there is no purchasing power, could then have access to new medicines. medicines for groups of society that do not have strong purchasing power could be better researched. i would like the commission to look more closely at the possibility of using prize funds more widely, which means that the inventor of a medicinal product receives a lump sum. then it would be a license-free manufacturing. i believe that in some cases it may be a better system to improve research and, above all, to remove the need for falsifying medicines. i see many advantages in trying to politically direct research to solve a disease problem instead of having a commercially profitable symptomatic treatment with medication for 30 years. finally, i would just like to say something about nanotechnology. there are nanoparticles in medicine, but we have little knowledge of their toxicological effects. i wish we had better methods to investigate the toxicology of nanoparticles.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner verheugen, this is the commission. as you say, there has been a lot of talk about this package even before it was tabled. perhaps this is not so strange, since drugs affect all people. at the same time, however, they also affect powerful companies with strong interests and the use of tax money. i myself have asked the commission to include the environmental impact of medicines in the information. i am very pleased that the commission has included this in its proposal as something that should be included in the information that should be given. i think, however, that this information could be mandatory when informing about the medicinal product. i don't want to see any ads for prescription drugs. i am therefore glad that the commission seems to share this view. however, like the commission, i believe that patients and the public should have the right to good and fair information about medicines. this is already the case in several cases today. in sweden, for example, we have a system called fass. it is important that ordinary citizens can find reliable information quickly, not least because there is a lot of so-called information that is directly misleading, not least on the internet in various chat rooms that are easily accessed if you are in a vulnerable situation. however, as the commission proposes, the information must be objectively monitored in order to be reliable. i think that is the part of the commission's proposal which i have some reservations about. it will be extremely important to regulate how these channels of information can and should actually look, so that they are easily accessible but at the same time only accessible to those who seek the information and thus not like advertising to people who have not asked for it. i also have some doubts about whether there is really a need for full regulation of this at eu level. this is, after all, a health-related area in which the member states should have the greatest competence. i would therefore like to be a little more convinced that there is indeed a need for legal regulation at eu level on this issue.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i would like the french presidency to be here tonight, because i have to say that we have had an extremely good cooperation. without their commitment and without their will to find ways forward, we would never have been able to reach an agreement. in the course of the process, there was always a blocking minority on some issue. it is therefore thanks to very good cooperation with the french presidency that this legislation is now coming into being, which is very good. so we're talking about dichloromethane, which is a dye-removing agent. it's also an industrial chemical that's actually used very heavily in the pharmaceutical industry. however, in industrial applications there is a good possibility to protect workers and the environment during use. the problem arises mainly when the product is sold to consumers. it's a sneaky chemical in the sense that it's carcinogenic, it's narcotic, it's harmful to health. it's easy to fool. because by the time you smell it, you've already exceeded the limit by three times. that makes it extremely difficult to protect oneself. proper protective equipment consists of very sophisticated gloves that must be changed every three hours. you need equipment that normally costs about 2 700 euros with independent air systems. the use of this chemical today is largely due to its illegal use. therefore, it was also important to restrict and prohibit the use of the product to professional users. often, it is a one-man or a few-man company that goes out and cleans up stains or removes paint. the safety equipment is very often left at home or not available at all. banning this chemical is therefore largely a matter of worker safety. we know that in the countries where it is used - which is 24 of the 27 member states today - it is almost never used correctly in accordance with national and european legislation. i think it is enough to quote the german chemical industry association's own text, which states that despite good ventilation, the removal of paint in limited areas and the collection of paint residues removed and the immediate closure of the cans, the exposure limit is regularly exceeded. that's why you need a separate respirator. i think it is very good that the commission has put forward a proposal and that we have now reached a compromise which also prohibits in practice even professional use, with the possibility for countries to obtain national exemptions. however, those granting an exemption must ensure that those working with this chemical have appropriate protective equipment, have sufficient training and knowledge of the alternatives and can justify why they cannot use these alternatives. in fact, for all uses of dichloromethane, there are viable alternatives today. we're talking about the 5 percent that's used in the dangerous way, which is the paint removal. the remaining 95% of the volume of dcm used is used in industry. it is good that we are also strengthening the protection of workers and the environment there. overall, i'm actually very happy with the deal. this will improve the ability of people to remove paint safely without exposure to carcinogens and hazardous chemicals. my colleagues in this parliament have contributed to the fact that this agreement has been reached so quickly, for which i thank them very much, and that all the shadow rapporteurs, including myself, have been able to reach agreement with the council. this is a good sign. because this was the last chance before reach to ban chemicals the old-fashioned way. so this was a sort of grand finale for the old-fashioned chemicals policy, and it was a good finale that we reached an agreement in an effective way. as regards dcm, some say that the alternatives may be at least as dangerous or more dangerous, but the evaluations of the commission and others have clearly shown that the alternatives are much less dangerous. now we're creating a market for alternatives. in fact, the companies that are now 'recycling' are also in many cases manufacturing the alternatives. however, there are also smaller companies that manufacture alternatives. it is good that they are now able to use their competitive advantage of better environmental protection in the internal market. we are moving towards a more secure future, and i thank everyone who has been involved in this process.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. dichloromethane, dcm, is a dangerous chemical that can cause cancer, eye damage, and lead to acute damage to organs such as the heart, liver, and kidneys. dcm is used, inter alia, in the production of pharmaceuticals and as a remover of paint and stickers. some countries have already banned dcm, such as sweden, denmark and austria. it is excellent that the question of the dcm is now on the agenda. it is even better that this agreement implies a total ban on dcm among ordinary consumers. for this i can only commend our rapporteur, carl schlyter, very highly. good work, carl! unfortunately, pharmaceutical workers and those who clean walls and facades may still be at risk from the effects of dichloromethane. unfortunately, this agreement does not imply a total ban on the professional use of dcm. it is a major shortcoming for which i hold the commission fully responsible. however, this derogation is designed so that the hopefully few member states who want to use the dcm must ensure that workers are not affected. the burden of proof therefore lies on those countries that want limited use of dcm to prove that the product will be used as safely as possible and that the protection of workers is guaranteed. it's quite acceptable after all. this is, on the whole, a good deal. i would urge the commission to draw inspiration from this decision. yes, we can! now let's move on. can the commission please give us an indication that we might in future have more bans on dangerous substances, such as carcinogenic azo dyes, bisphenol a, the flame retardant deca-bd? if the eu cannot, why can you not at least allow individual member states to go ahead and introduce their own bans? you in the commission are even forcing member states to lift the restrictions they sometimes already have. for example, my own country, sweden, had to allow azo dyes after sweden joined the eu in 1995. following the commission's threat of legal action in the ec court of justice, sweden has now started to allow deca-bd. it is unacceptable and, above all, it is not environmentally friendly. that is not the way to make progressive environmental legislation. the commission, commissioner verheugen, please convince me! show that environmental considerations can take precedence over market requirements in more cases than just this one.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i want to go back to what watson said. watson has also played a role. even though you're not a member of our committee, you've still influenced our committee and helped to bring about a compromise. of course, the staff who helped me reach this agreement have also been important. i can only confirm what commissioner verheugen says. at any rate, the commission has always made it clear to me that if the council and parliament had reached a more far-reaching compromise of a total ban, the commission would have accepted it. there has been no misunderstanding between the commission and myself on this point. i just want to illustrate this chemical. if i were to open a single one-kilogram jar here and now and spread it out over the benches, paint it out, we would actually in this whole incredibly large hall exceed the limit a little bit. that's how toxic this chemical is. i can only conclude the debate by appealing to the commission now to ensure that member states seeking exemptions for professional use are allowed to withdraw their exemptions if they regularly breach the new stricter rules. we know, we all know and all the studies show that if dichloromethane is to be used properly to protect the health of workers, it is both uneconomical and unenvironmentally harmful. if dcm is allowed to act under correct market conditions, i.e. if the legislation is followed, dcm itself would be competitive out of the picture very quickly and would be replaced by the alternatives. i can appeal to the commission now: make sure the rules are followed. then the dcm will phase itself out fast enough.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. it is very true that we are in the midst of two crises: a climate crisis and a financial crisis. to this we can add an energy crisis. so it's important not to lose focus. my question to prime minister topolánek is therefore as follows: will the czech republic ensure that the emergency economic crisis programmes also work to solve the climate crisis? we now have the opportunity to help our citizens to have a better environment and new jobs, and to help our small businesses. history shows that every financial crisis is followed by a technological change. with investments in new green technologies such as district heating, biofuels, combined heat and power, energy efficient houses, solar panels, smart grids, etc., we are taking advantage of the necessary transitions to meet the climate challenge and create the economic recovery that europe and the world need. a simultaneous investment in climate-smart technologies and employment also stabilises the security situation vis-à-vis russia. those who opposed the energy package and a common european comprehensive energy policy may now understand why we have put so much effort into being able to get the eu to speak with one voice on these issues. at any rate, the freezing citizens of europe understand what needs to be done. we cannot have three or four european delegations running around like in the middle east crisis. i therefore welcome the czech presidency and the well-established cooperation with the incoming swedish presidency and wish them well.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the president-in-office on the ability which his presidency has already demonstrated to deal with a number of issues. many swedes still have the feeling that prague is to the east of stockholm, due to the heritage of the political geography of the last century. that is wrong, and your presidency, mr president-in-office, will restore the czech republic to its proper place in our mental maps – at the heart of europe in history, as well as in the future. may i also express the hope that you will pave the way well for the swedish presidency: as regards climate issues and competitiveness, where it is so important for you to demonstrate that we will tackle the economic problems with openness, without protectionism and with the dynamics of an open economy; and regarding energy issues, where you will play a crucial role, since you are clearly very well-placed. the times we are living in underline the need for reforms and change. i think it is fair to say that solidarity and security as regards energy means that we need to reform and deepen the european internal energy market. without that, we will be exposed to different threats and attempts to divide us, to fragment us. one aim should be to ensure that no one can control the supply and production of gas and electricity at the same time as distribution; to ensure that we will have one common market. if that can be achieved during your presidency, it will be a strategic step forward that i hope we can all congratulate you on in six months’ time.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i too welcome the czech presidency. under this presidency we will have low growth and unemployment will rise. we're in a very difficult financial situation. i read in the financial times last week about president klaus's solutions, with which i do not agree at all. he says we must reduce our ambitions in environmental and climate policy, and we must reduce our ambitions in social policy. this is the wrong way to go! if europe is to be competitive in the future, we must invest in modern environmental technologies. we need to invest in modern infrastructure to achieve a long-term sustainable society, and in an active climate policy. it leads to higher growth and more employment. the same is true of social policy. we must invest in a social policy with fair working conditions, equal treatment of employees, a good working environment, etc. that does not mean lower growth, but it does mean more sustainable growth in the long term. finally, i would like to touch on family policy. when i read on your programme about family policy, it's about an old-fashioned family policy. modern family policy is about equal responsibility for children and work for men and women. you're pointing in a completely different direction in your program.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. the report clearly states that the member states have exclusive competence in matters of defence and national security, which we think is important to stress. we believe that equipment, works and services should normally be procured in this area as well. however, we believe that it is a natural consequence of the nature of this market that not everything can be procured in accordance with the rules of the directive. however, these exemptions shall apply only where substantial security concerns can be justified. we believe that this will help to put an end to the customary use of protectionist exceptions, which are not least harmful to swedish industry.
in writing. the commission also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this convention dates from 2007 and deals with important issues such as the working environment, rest periods and social security of fishermen. it shall be for the member states to decide democratically whether or not to ratify the ilo convention in question. i have therefore voted against the report in question, since the matter does not belong on the european parliament's table.
in writing. - the junilist considers the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms to be of paramount importance, both within and outside the eu. it is extremely important that the eu member states respect fundamental freedoms and rights, and of course we cannot leave it to the member states to control themselves. however, junilista is critical of the establishment of a new european agency in this area and of the ambition to pursue an 'external policy'. we believe that the un, with its global reach, long experience and expertise, is better placed to monitor and implement the necessary measures than the eu. i have therefore voted against the report as a whole, but i am very positive about some of the points in the proposal, for which i voted. i welcome the report's reference to the unfair treatment of prisoners in the us prison camp at guantánamo. there's only one way to go: bring them to justice or set them free! i am very concerned about the particular vulnerability of individuals from various minority groups and believe that action must be taken, both at national and international level. i voted for this in the report but i am sceptical about whether a criminal justice framework at european level is a good solution to the problem.
in the case of the catania report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, i interpret paragraph 149 as an invitation to the member states to ensure that equal treatment of patients in health care also applies to addicts. that is why i voted in favour of this paragraph.
in writing. - this report contains a surprising number of wise comments to come from the committee on foreign affairs. for example, it is said that it is positive that eu member states are increasingly choosing to speak out and not allow the eu presidency to speak for all countries. statements of this kind are very rare, and i welcome them. the good stuff is not available to everyone. one of the most damning texts is found in recital h, which bemoans the 'insistent desire of the member states to act independently in the un'. 'one state, one vote' is, after all, one of the cornerstones of the un. the committee also regrets the increasing fragmentation of the unhrc into regional blocs. paradoxically, some regional blocs i.e. the eu seem to be desirable. the european parliament is not, cannot and should not be a guarantor of the inviolability of human rights in the world. this is particularly evident in the statements made by members of this house on the subject of homosexuals, for example. although the spirit of the report is probably good, i voted against it in today's vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are two important things that are at the heart of the debate here today. one is that an overwhelming majority of this parliament wants to see a speedy ceasefire. secondly, there is overwhelming support for all parties to give the state of israel its right to exist within peaceful borders. this is an important starting point for the european union. it's important because it's a tragedy that we see in gaza. every life lost is a tragedy, no matter which side of the border. let us not think that this tragedy would be lessened by the fact that those who deliberately want to kill civilians would succeed by firing rockets even further into civilian territory. it is also a tragedy because it is an obstacle to the establishment of a palestinian state and thus to a peaceful solution. it is a tragedy that also falls on the international community, because what is happening now has not happened suddenly but has been built up by armaments, by arms smuggling and by rocket fire over a long period of time. what is important for us to see is that this is not a tragedy based on a conflict between jews and palestinians. i am very strongly opposed to attempts to demonize a people. when i hear chris davies trying to blame a people, i hear tones that i don't think should be heard in this parliament. it is not a conflict between palestinians and jews, not a conflict between israel and the palestinian authority, but a conflict between extremists and moderate forces in the region. let us give our support to the moderate forces by making it clear to anyone who is fomenting hatred and wants to eliminate the state of israel that they are not going to get anywhere. if europe gives this message, we will also strengthen the moderate forces and lay a better foundation for peace.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? mr president of the council! on sunday morning, september 23, 2001, swedish citizen dawit isaak was picked up from his home in eritrea by the authorities of that country. he was imprisoned without trial and has not yet, over seven years later, been formally charged. his crime is stated to be "reporting independent news". for the first time in this resolution we have a direct reference to dawit isaak. that should put more pressure on eritrea. it is unacceptable that a citizen of the european union, a swedish journalist, should be detained and harassed year after year by a rogue regime such as that in asmara, a regime that receives aid from the european union, which has also increased considerably. now, commissioner, is the time for the european union to act and to condition aid. the time for the silent diplomat is over. that's enough. the eu does not accept the trampling on of fundamental human rights, the murder or imprisonment of journalists and critics of the regime, while the population is oppressed and starving. parliament called for the immediate release of dawit isaak and the other imprisoned journalists in eritrea. it's a powerful step in the right direction. the commission and the council must now also put their words into practice. it is therefore high time for the eu to take action and impose sanctions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to highlight, as did my colleague from the alde group, the release of dawit isaak. for seven years, therefore, swedish citizen dawit isaak has been held without trial in a prison cell in a terrible dictatorship. i am glad that we have included a text on immediate release in the resolution on the horn of africa. we demand the immediate release of dawit isaak, as well as the other imprisoned journalists. no trial, and what is their crime? yes, a work for democracy and for freedom of speech. the eu's future aid to eritrea must be linked to clear demands for the release of dawit isaak and the other journalists. conditional aid as well as sanctions, the freezing of eritrean assets in europe and the reporting of international crimes to the international court of justice are what is needed today. the swedish government has been working with tacit diplomacy, it has been said, but after seven years, still nothing has happened. now is the time to act!
mr president, i would like to thank you. what can you say in two minutes when we are going to talk about and describe what happened in srebrenica, when we are going to learn how to remember so that it never happens again? what have we not seen yet, and what has not been said yet about srebrenica? what can i, as the only member of this parliament who was born in bosnia and is a refugee from the war in bosnia, say today from this podium that i, as a swedish member, would not be able to say if i did not have this experience of the war? i have, mr. stoyanov, a real story from that time. perhaps most of all, i can convey the feeling of hope when i still thought that if only someone out in europe would see what was happening, the world would react, or the despair when i realized that i was left to my own misfortune and that no help would come. i remember blood on the pavement, the screams of hungry children, the blank eyes of a 10-year-old girl as she told of how she and her siblings had to first bury and then move the bodies of their dead parents to another grave, when soldiers tried to sweep away evidence of mass murder in a village near my town. i remember my father's face when we found out that my uncle and cousin were in a concentration camp. i remember my own desperation when one morning i did not have even a deciliter of milk to give my one-year-old son. what i remember most vividly, however, and will never forget, is the feeling of indescribable loneliness when you finally realize that your own misery, despair and agony have been played out in the open, that you have seen our suffering but failed to prevent it. that is the feeling i share with the people of srebrenica, mr stoyanov. it is this feeling that i share with all the other victims of the balkan wars. the fact that the european parliament will vote tomorrow on the day of remembrance for the victims of srebrenica is something that gives me some comfort. this day of remembrance will not bring back the murdered family members of the people of srebrenica, but it will be a recognition for all of us who have been victims of war that europe has seen our suffering, that we are not alone, and that europe wants to be remembered so that it does not happen again. i personally hope and work for srebrenica, together with bosnia and all the other balkan countries, to become members of the european family as soon as possible. this is the very least that can be expected after europe's shameful failure to prevent this genocide and the fact that ratko mladić is still not arrested. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the level of development of a civilization can be judged by how it treats the most defenseless living creatures in that civilization. judging by the way we treat our animals, we're still barbarians. i remember when sweden joined the eu almost 15 years ago. the debates before we joined were very much about transporting animals. it was an area where we were going to improve the situation. then came directive one in 2005. the conditions for the animals did not improve, but what we were told at the time was that now the monitoring should work, now gps systems should be introduced, now the drivers should be trained, now the trucks should work better. five countries have not even bothered to submit a report. i call on the commission to fine these countries immediately. as for the other 22 countries, how many checks have they carried out? how have they followed the rules? does it work? the answer is, in many cases: no, i'm afraid not then kyprianou promised us here that he would return before the end of his term of office if necessary - and if necessary! - and if there is an opinion - and there is an opinion! many of the new member states are actually small and may not need 24 hours transport plus 24 hours transport. we will have a new slaughterhouse directive which means we can have mobile slaughterhouses and reduce the need for transport. we need to go back to the conditions of the animals during transport. how many of you would appreciate having four cows in your bunk or ten sheep in your bunk for 24 hours? that's how tight the animals are packed today. or imagine that the chickens in the top compartment of the truck are not actually totally forbidden to let the feces run down on them below! who wants to be transported under those conditions? i invite all the eu's agriculture ministers to join me in transporting animals from stockholm to brussels on the same terms as the animals. i wonder how many people would say yes to that. maybe they'd rather change the law. we're talking about costs. the biggest cost here is the environmental cost of long haul shipping. in addition, there is a cost in terms of the suffering of the animals from the long journeys. however, the long haul also results in a lower quality of meat. it's a total waste of value. a stressed animal will be much worse at the table. so the suffering follows the chain. think of the farmer who has spent a lot of effort and money to get a good animal that is then destroyed for the rest of its life. no, we need a new proposal before the election. i do not see how we can campaign unless we have at least a proposal from the commission which shows that we are finally going to improve the conditions for the animals.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the starting point of this discussion is that animals are sentient individuals. animals have a capacity to feel pain, stress and suffering in the same way that we humans do. we must take that into account when we make laws. it's not happening today. more and more animals are being transported within the eu. it is a direct consequence of the single market. the single market leads to specialisation. you raise animals in one place, you slaughter the animals in another place, and you transport the meat to a third place. member states may not even prohibit the transport of animals for animal welfare reasons. that's actually unacceptable. a swedish survey revealed the total number of animals transported across borders within the eu. for the eu-15, it was found that 22 million four-legged animals, such as pigs, horses and cows, plus 500 billion poultry, are transported annually across the eu. it was the eu-15. you can only think of the eu-27. of course, those numbers are going to be much, much higher. i would like to ask the commission when the new animal transport directive comes out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. can the commission promise what we in the european parliament want, namely a maximum limit of 8 hours for animal transport? i would also like to ask vladimir špidla a few questions. you tell us that five member states have not submitted reports, which is of course outrageous. what do you do in the commission with these reports from the member states? do you have any analysis of them? we in parliament want an analysis, a report from the commission, in which you put everything together and set out clear measures for how to change the conditions for animal transport. so when will the new directive come with an eight-hour limit, and can we have an analysis of the reports from the member states?
in writing. - discrimination and harassment must not exist in a liberal society; this report is a chilling reminder that many member states have a long way to go to achieve equality between men and women in life and work. however, the responsibility for combating injustices, for example in the labour market, does not lie with the eu institutions, but is and should remain the concern of responsible citizens and their political and trade union representatives in the member states. i firmly oppose the writings which seek to use these injustices as an argument for increasing the supranational status at the expense of the self-determination of the individual member states. widening the gap between the ruling and the ruled is not the way to a liberal society where the equal value of all people is the foundation. however, the main purpose of the report is to highlight how discrimination and harassment can still destroy people's ability to live and to be empowered. it is so important that i have chosen to vote in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution.
in writing. the resolution calls for the immediate cessation of the israeli killing of gazans. we regret, however, that the resolution does not call for the suspension of the association agreement with israel and for the cessation of the upgrading of cooperation with israel. these are obvious demands that should be made of a country that is so blatantly violating its commitment to respect human rights and international law. we also question the claim that the israeli attack was launched in response to rocket fire from hamas. israel has consistently violated the ceasefire, including on 4 november last year when israeli military forces invaded the gaza strip and killed six palestinians, as well as the collective punishment of the palestinian people in the form of embargoes, electricity cuts, settlement expansion, wall construction, kidnapping of leading palestinian politicians, etc. we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it.
in writing. the resolution adopted by parliament today on the situation in gaza contained no condemnation of the terrorist organisation hamas, which broke the ceasefire in december and uses the civilian population as human shields. although this was not in the resolution, i felt it was important to vote in favour of calling for a ceasefire in the region, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. this does not necessarily mean that i consider everything in the resolution to be wrong or undesirable. on the contrary, it also contains positive elements, which i would have wholeheartedly supported if it had been a statement from, for example, the swedish government. one such example is the case of swedish-eritrean journalist dawit isaak, who has been detained without trial since 2001.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the doharunda collapsed last year. this is deeply serious. the progress towards global free trade in recent decades has lifted untold numbers of people out of poverty, on a scale that has actually changed the world. but now the world economy is in a very deep crisis. it's not because of free trade and that form of globalization. it's because of a global financial crisis. the situation is therefore similar to that of the late 20th century. a global depression follows such a financial crisis. that time it brought hitler to power. it led to the horrors of world war ii, and it led to fifty years of communist slavery in half of europe and half of asia. we're talking about important things right now. the main reason it became a global depression at the time was a resurgence of protectionism. countries introduced tariffs, quantitative restrictions, buy-in rules and competing devaluations. in fact, there is a real risk that this will happen again. there are many worrying signs. president obama has actually won the election on a protectionist platform. we have the first signs. now here comes a big package and there is at least one "buy american" clause in the steel industry. this could be a start. if that gate has been opened, other countries will feel they can do something similar given how bad it looks. the countries that are now suffering very badly around the world and in the eu are tempted to promise their workers and their companies protection from foreign competition. the trends are clear. if that process starts, it can't be stopped, and then, in fact, there's a disaster waiting. the eu is the world's largest trading bloc and therefore has a very large responsibility. in the field of trade policy, the eu speaks with one voice, and that is good for once, but what will that voice actually say? there is reason for pessimism. the key to success lies in the agricultural sector. but the operations of france and germany to get the eu to buy in milk powder and butter and to start subsidising the export of dairy products do not bode well. it's a matter of narrow-minded self-interest instead of statesmanship. the council and parliament should therefore immediately make clear statements that the eu will defend free trade in the world and open up to progress on trade in agricultural policy. nothing could be more important. thank you for speaking.
i would like to begin by agreeing with the previous speaker that the doha round is extremely important, but i would add that it has probably never been more important than it is at the moment. in this particular financial crisis, i think we have a greater need than ever to show that the global trading system actually works. to put the doha round behind us and conclude that we are not capable of global trade deals, i think it would be a disaster that could undermine the entire global trading system. a failure of the dohar round will probably never cost more than it is right now. the reason why the doha round is more important than ever is precisely because of the financial crisis. the biggest risk, as i see it, with this financial crisis is not the lack of capital to the loan market. the greatest risk is that it will trigger, that it will set in motion protectionist trends. it's something we've seen in history. it happened in the 1930s, which led to a literal disaster for the world economy, and it happened in the 1970s as well. already, i think, we can see a tendency for the world to think that it can solve these fundamental problems with more protectionism, even though protectionism risks spreading and creating more crisis in the world economy. this is particularly the case in the area of financial services, services and trade in services. in the financial services sector, we are seeing protectionism increase at a very rapid rate. back to the dohar round as it is today. the criticism i have had throughout the period we have been negotiating the doha round is probably above all that it has become about agriculture, agriculture and re-agriculture. i think it is a very narrow agenda, and i really think that world trade deserves a much broader approach, not least because agriculture is a relatively small part of world trade, if you compare, for example, industrial goods and services together. i also believe that it represents a relatively small part of the growth potential, perhaps especially here in europe. new market access and new market opening globally, particularly in services, but also in industrial goods, i believe is most important to get the wheels turning and to get global growth going again. i would therefore ask the commission: what is the commission's intention and what initiatives is the commission taking to widen the doha round even further so that we can get out of this boring situation where everyone is blaming everyone else for non-agricultural trade, agricultural trade and only agricultural trade, when we know that what is needed for the world economy is a much much broader negotiating agenda that also includes trade in services and industrial trade. thank you so much!
mr president, when we are discussing the strategic energy review, i think it is important to stress some of the risks we are running – not only the risk of an insecure energy supply, with all the problems that brings, but also the fact that we are exposed to political pressure from regimes which use energy supplies as a lever to influence other governments. as a result, there is also a risk of fragmentation of the european union, with member states divided according to their different interests, thereby undermining the common foreign and security policy. i think it is a good thing to see that the policies we need to tackle climate change are very much the same as the policies we need in order to strengthen our energy security. decreasing the use of fossil fuels means less dependence on unreliable suppliers. increased supply from other energy sources means a decreasing demand for fossil fuels, lower prices for european citizens and – not least – a reduced cash flow to the oil regimes of the world. this has huge security implications which we need to consider when we discuss the european union’s future energy strategy. i think some of the pieces will easily fall into place when we have this perspective. we need more of an internal market in the european union because, in reality, that is the only guarantee for solidarity between the member states. this means that we need to do more about cross-border connections and have a better grid, binding member states together and thereby binding the market together. we need to develop more biofuels. i do not agree with those who say that there is a risk; it is possible for us – in europe as well as in other parts of the world – to increase the area we are using. even small contributions from biofuels result in less dependence on fossil fuels and a change in prices. i must also emphasise the issue of nuclear power. sometimes i feel it is the elephant in the room, because it is one of the greatest potential contributors to the european union’s ability to reduce carbon dioxide emissions today and in the future. i would like to conclude on that note. if we try to bring all these elements together, we will have the opportunity not only for a stronger energy policy, but also for a stronger security policy.
mr president, commissioners, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. we all know that the european energy market is in trouble. we are currently at almost 50% of imports, which will be 70% in ten years if we do nothing. the energy we produce is often produced in a way that destroys our environment and creates the greenhouse effect that will destroy human health, economies and stability, not just in our part of the world, but in many parts of the world. the energy we have in europe is to be distributed through an old-fashioned distribution network that has not been renovated and is not being maintained. in addition, we have close neighbours and conflicts over energy issues that are very worrying. the relationship with russia has been discussed in this house on several occasions over the past year and it is completely unacceptable to make an energy crisis a new year's tradition and put ordinary people in a situation where old people freeze to death, hospitals have to be closed and industries are shut down. this is completely unacceptable! another thing that is totally unacceptable is what russia and gasprom are trying to do with northstream, namely to try to override swedish environmental legislation and european legislation dealing with the safety of the baltic sea, even though this inland sea already has enormous areas of dead bottoms. this is completely unacceptable! we're going to need all the energy, all the new technology, all the innovation, all the research and all the computing power that exists to deal with all these different problems. the regulations put forward by the commission, including the financing package, are very good, but our citizens are still waiting for governments to dare to take decisions on energy solidarity and to dare to take decisions to break up the large state monopolies. these monopolies are not only about the production of energy but also about the distribution of energy, and thus lock citizens and businesses, both small and mediumsized, into an unacceptable situation. i think that rapporteur laperrouze has drawn up a very good report. i also think that the commission's proposals in these areas are very good and i hope that we can reach a decision on this as soon as possible. thank you, thank you!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the regulation to 31 december 1999. the eu has learned the hard way what it means to be overly dependent on a single energy supplier. the citizens of several member states have been affected by russian capriciousness in an unacceptable way. we know that russia is a tough country with its neighbours, but when freezing slovaks and bulgarians were taken hostage in the russia-ukraine quarrel, it was a wake-up call for us all, and i hope it was a wake-up call for this parliament too. ukraine needs eu support and the construction of nabucco with gas from azerbaijan, among others, must now begin. the eu must now show its ability to act, as mr swoboda calls for. we know russia is pushing for northstream, the baltic sea gas pipeline. these props should be rejected. the baltic sea is one of our most sensitive inland seas. for environmental and economic reasons, this line should not be drawn into the baltic sea. add to this the security aspects. a land-based alternative must be carefully examined. the european parliament has also expressed its doubts on this point in the past. the report is pleasing in that it states that nuclear power must be an important part of europe's future energy mix. if we are to meet the climate package's emissions reduction requirements, we need a modern european nuclear power plant. it is good to be able to speak about this in the european parliament these days.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner barrot and colleagues! i want to start by thanking both angelilli and everyone else for a very good cooperation. you will remember how little was done at the beginning of this parliamentary term, but with the children's strategy a year ago the issue of children's rights was turned upside down. we are here to decide on the right of the child not to be sexually exploited and the fight against child pornography. i am of course particularly pleased with the three proposals which i got through in the libe committee and which i hope to keep through the vote today. the first suggestion is that you're a child until you're 18. it is of the utmost importance to be able to protect both young girls and young boys from sexual offences, sexual assault and sexual exploitation throughout the eu. the second proposal is to protect children from child sex tourism by making sex crimes a criminal offence in all member states, both inside and outside the eu. this means that those who commit crimes should never be allowed to be sex tourists and exploit the poorest and youngest children and young people in other countries, because when they come home they will be prosecuted and sentenced throughout the eu. the third proposal is to seriously tackle the internet now and, together with the major credit card companies, to develop the technical means to shut down payment systems, with the help of banks and exchange offices, internet service providers and search engines and, of course, the travel industry, when payments are made for sexual offences and violations or sexual exploitation of children and young people. the same thinking is going on everywhere where there is a push to close websites, namely that children should take precedence over the duty of confidentiality and that abuse of children and young people should be reported. with this report we can now wait and be satisfied that we have taken a first step here in parliament in the field of children's rights, and when we have a new lisbon treaty, children's rights will also become a legal basis and an objective in the eu, and that is really the time. thank you, thank you!
for the gue/ngl group. the report has the support of the united left. the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are heinous crimes that require international cooperation to stop. children are abused by being forced to pose sexually, photographed, filmed, and posted on the internet. these films and images can be seen all over the world and therefore require increased international cooperation to stop these violations. we know there are clear links between the sex slave trade and the sexual exploitation of children. the united nations estimates that 85 percent of the victims of the sex slave trade are children under the age of 18. we don't know how many children are being bought and sold as commodities for sexual exploitation, but we know that there are many, and we know that every child who is affected is one child too many. adults must take responsibility to protect our children from this, one of the worst crimes a child can be exposed to. we must not forget in this debate that many of the crimes against children are committed within the family or within the family circle of friends, and therefore it is important that society ensures that there are other adult contacts for children, so that children have someone to turn to for help. all forms of sexual abuse of children are criminal offences and should be treated as such in all member states. all citizens who commit sexual offences against children should be punished, whether the offence is committed within or outside the eu.
i would like to begin by thanking claudio and all the others who have made this report possible. in the past, in the debates on the future of asylum, refugee and migration policy, we have focused mostly on those who are here illegally, or on those who are well educated and are allowed to come here, or the group who were just poor and want to provide for their families and want to come here. now we're passing the responsibility on to the employers who hire illegal immigrants. there wouldn't be so many undocumented people living here if there weren't always some rogue employers who pay and exploit. i think that the sanctions are quite right and that an information requirement for employers is being introduced and that if you have exploited someone you should also compensate them after the person has gone home. there is, however, one proposal which i would have voted against if it had not been for a vote in committee, and that is that the majority introduce more lenient rules for employment in the home. for me, this is a gender equality issue, because it's mostly women who worked in low-wage homes. it is also a group that is in a more difficult situation than if you are in a multi-employee workplace, but i see this as a first step. i regret the news today that the swedish conservative government is opposed to the report which aims to support serious businesses and to criminalise frivolous businesses which exploit undocumented workers. finally, i am of course also concerned about the views we have received from the trade unions on the report. i hope we can resolve these before any decisions are made. the same rules must apply to all employers, as well as shared responsibility in the case of public works, otherwise we will be building loopholes and encouraging cheating.
we know that more and more people are hiding within the eu's borders. we know that the eu will need an increase in labour immigration in the near future. we also know that thousands of people every week are trying to seek a better life in europe. many of them die on their way to our continent. we know that many of the undocumented are exploited and live in miserable conditions. this is unworthy of the european union. among the universal values that the eu wants to spread throughout the world is the right of everyone to live in dignity. there is a shameful paradox here. the eu's common asylum and migration policy is a reasonable arrangement, but it must not mean that the countries that want to take a tougher line and chase people in different ways get to decide. the chances of a decent life in europe will be diminished. at the same time, it is important that prospective employers who exploit people in a dependency situation know that penalties and sanctions can be imposed throughout the eu. i admit that the report is a difficult balancing act. i can sympathize with mr. catania's reasoning on the reservation. the compromise is a step in the right direction, although i have some reservations about the extent of the employer's reporting obligations. i would like to say to inger segelström that we do not have a conservative government in sweden. we have a four-party government with strong liberal elements.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a matter for the member states. we support joint research on nuclear safety, for example, but we think that in several cases the report goes too far in the nuclear-friendly direction. those decisions shall be taken at the level of the member states. we are also generally in favour of investments in energy infrastructure, but we are questioning whether we should support all the projects and investments that the rapporteur wants. we would have liked to see clearer criteria for supporting such a position, particularly in the light of the debate on nord stream.
in writing. - we were very critical of anna záborská's report and we were going to vote against it because we thought it was very anti-women. the woman would take care of the home, children and the elderly instead of working. fortunately, we did not have to vote against the resolution, as the verts/ale amendment was accepted. although we ultimately decided to support the resolution, there were texts that we were against or doubted, and therefore it was not obvious how we should vote. as swedish social democrats, we believe that the right to work should apply to everyone. the social partners must also provide the tools and conditions for women to work, which is a prerequisite for their liberation. a well-developed child and elderly care system is one of the most important conditions for women to be able to work. of course there must be solidarity between the generations, but this solidarity must not lead to women being forced to stay at home and look after the elderly and children. we believe, however, that the resolution adopted by the majority sends a clear signal to the czech presidency that their aim of equating home care with work is both outdated and very anti-women.
in writing. - gender equality and equal treatment in the labour market, as in all other contexts, are self-evident in a democracy. the rapporteur is right, of course, on this point. but as usual, the measures proposed to redress the backsliding on human rights and democracy are seen as aimed at increasing the eu's political power at the expense of the member states. it always ends with an attack on subsidiarity. in practice, it is proposed that the eu should assume responsibility for the social policies of the member states and legislate on matters closely linked to labour market policy. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a common tax policy. all these are examples of policy issues which the member states should decide on their own. i have therefore, despite many of the good intentions, voted against both the own-initiative report and the alternative motion for a resolution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. the fight against the spread of child pornography must be given priority. in this context, european cooperation in its various forms has a very important role to play. that is why we moderates voted for the report. we would like to point out, however, that we did not share the rapporteur's view on two of the many proposals presented. unlike the rapporteur, we do not believe that the strict confidentiality of certain professional groups, such as lawyers, priests and psychologists, should be compromised. we also believe that it is difficult to hold the owner of a website strictly responsible for all discussions that take place even in private conversations in closed rooms on a website. despite the purpose, it is not proportionate to require all website owners to monitor all private conversations on the website in order to guarantee the legality of the website in accordance with the proposal. instead, we need to focus on other and more effective ways of tackling child pornography networks that do not have such serious consequences for the privacy of ordinary internet users.
in writing. − the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are abominable crimes and international cooperation is necessary to put a stop to them. therefore we voted in favour of the angelilli report today. however, there are aspects of the report that we do not support, such as creating uniform extraterritorial criminal legislation applicable throughout the eu, as well as defining at eu level what should be considered a crime and aggravating circumstances.
in writing. - sexual crimes against children and child pornography are among the most heinous crimes that humans commit. it's a crime that should result in severe criminal penalties or extensive serious care if the perpetrator is mentally ill. the report proposes many good measures to improve the management of this appalling social problem. member states are encouraged to ratify and implement all relevant international conventions, they should be helped to improve their legislation in this area and child sex tourism should be criminalised in all member states. this is exactly my view of the eu as a union of values. i very much support the report and have voted in favour of it in many individual votes. however, the report also calls for the harmonisation of eu criminal law and the establishment of a system of preventive measures to be financed from eu funds, despite the fact that this is a global problem that should be regulated by conventions and agreements at un level. it is difficult to avoid the impression that we are once again faced with an example of a terrible social problem being cynically used to advance the positions of the eu at the expense of the independence of the member states. the criminal justice system is a very central part of the powers of a sovereign state. i have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against sexual exploitation. i support strong cooperation within the eu to combat the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, but believe that staff rights should be a national issue.
for the ind/dem group. i think we're all very relieved by what's happened in the united states. it is similar to the situation we had in the early 1950s when the american people and the american system showed its ability to deal with mccarthyism. now it's doing it by electing a new president who on his first day in office declares guantánamo bay to be closed. thank god for this. what's wrong with this is that you arrest people on suspicion of terrorism or other crimes. you try them, you marry them, you flog them, you release them, you punish them. those who have not been convicted shall be treated as innocent. if we have suspicions, it is the task of the security service to follow up in the future. i find it difficult to understand why those who have not been convicted should not be allowed to remain in the united states, but of course european countries themselves should be prepared to take in those who have not been convicted. thank you for speaking.
mr president, i just wanted to ask why mr schulz was allowed to exceed his speaking time enormously – but not the rest of us? why?
no country can, unfortunately, have free immigration in this world. the differences between countries are too great, and that is why we are faced with the problems we are discussing. those who come are usually presented as asylum seekers. then we must preserve the rule of law. we must treat these people as free citizens, with respect. we must protect their human rights pending a trial of the question: are they asylum seekers or not? what we're talking about here is a very strange story to me. why would those who come to lampedusa be forced to stay there indefinitely? and as the previous speaker pointed out, if people fall into a small town in southern sweden, for example, we don't expect them to stay there. of course, they're being placed around the country pending trial. that's what you have to do in italy.
for the gue/ngl group. finally, after more than one and a half years of work, we are going to decide on this climate resolution. i would like to mention three things in particular. the long-term reduction targets: in article 3 we call for reductions in eu emissions of between 25 and 40% by 2020 and at least 80% by 2050. that is good, and it means that we are going further than what the eu climate package from last year requires. we also call for action against the meat industry. according to the fao report livestock's long shadow, the meat industry accounts for 18 percent of global emissions. we are making a point of this report and we are calling for a reduction in meat consumption. it is a courageous and historic decision by this parliament, which is usually happy to support subsidies to this industry, but it is sad that the ppe in particular wants to vote those requirements down. just as we must reduce motoring, we should also dare to say that today's rampant consumption of meat is not sustainable. let me also remind you that the meat industry is actually the main cause of the deforestation of the amazon rainforest in the form of land for grazing animals but also for fodder production. a large proportion of the feed is exported as soya to europe. it's not sustainable. the automobile industry is another growing problem. between 1990 and 2005, emissions from the european transport industry have increased by 32%. massive investments are needed in public transport and other environmentally friendly modes of transport. fossil fuel cars must be replaced by electric cars and perhaps in the future also by hydrogen vehicles. we have to ask ourselves if it's sustainable to have all this transport. should we not encourage local production and consumption instead? in conclusion, i would like to draw attention to amendments nos 12 and 28, which call for more nuclear power. if they pass, my group will not be able to support this resolution. i therefore vote against amendments nos 12 and 28. thank you so much. thank you.
this report shows great promise. it covers pretty much every topic that has been mentioned in the climate debate for over two years. yet i think it lacks the edge and the drive and the pressure in this work that is actually needed to follow the political line that we have started in europe on climate issues. there are no measures to protect the soil. as far as water resources are concerned, there is a whole package of proposals in the world water forum that could have been raised. in the field of energy efficiency, there are opportunities that are not available where we have decisionmaking powers in parliament. alternative fuels are also treated far too lightly. in the important area of health, the focus is on the collection of facts and the control of mosquito bites, whereas we need major strategic decisions in europe to cope with the effects of climate change on human health. it's also true that there are opportunities here. we should have done more in terms of growth and jobs. there is a possibility of creating jobs in europe. they're needed here. we need to anchor these measures in economic policy. in a few weeks, the council of ministers will meet to discuss financing for the decisions to be taken in copenhagen. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. without this anchoring in economic policy and in a policy for employment and growth, this report risks becoming 'like a candle in the wind', a nice document, but without the drive and determination we need in these matters.
madam president, i would like to thank mr florenz. this is a rich report with a great number of concrete proposals. a specific call is made to use the stimulus packages all over the world to promote clean energy and green technologies, stressing thereby that the financial crisis and the climate crisis have the same roots – unsustainable use of resources. while i support the report, like caroline lucas i would have liked to see more attention paid to the most recent signs, which tell us that climate change is both more rapid and serious than we thought just a couple of years ago – contrary to what some colleagues here have said, in particular mr helmer. by the way, a recent screening of more than 900 climate articles in scientific journals – peer review – showed that not one of them questioned the main thrust of the ipcc. what i am particularly concerned about is not co2 emissions per se, but the positive feedback mechanisms that are now happening in the planetary system, like the acidification of the oceans, reduced albedo and the possible leaking of methane from thawing tundra. all these factors will accelerate warming. we can control emissions but we cannot control these factors. this is the main reason why, in my opinion, emission reductions have to be much more ambitious in the near future than what is currently being discussed in the eu and by the un. this means, by the way, that the 2°c target has to be revisited and that greenhouse gas concentrations have to be lowered, rather than continuing to increase. that is why some of us advocate very strongly the 350 ppm target. this dimension of the problem is referred to in the report but only in passing. i would have liked it to be at the core of the report. my guess is that, only a few years from now, the feedbacks i mentioned will be at the centre of the debate. finally, let me just endorse what guido sacconi said. in spite of its shortcomings, a temporary committee has been the right way to deal with a horizontal issue like this. i hope the next parliament will build on our experience and deal with climate change and sustainability in a similar way.
now i hope the whole parliament will listen! at the january partsession we unanimously adopted a resolution on the horn of africa. it contained a specific clause regarding the release of dawit isaak. dawit isaak is now very ill and i would ask the president to write to the eritrean authorities. the news of his illness has been confirmed by several sources and is in the swedish media today. the situation is very urgent and desperate, and i just want to remind you that dawit isaak is a swedish-eritrean journalist who has been imprisoned without trial since 2001. now his health problems are so serious that he is being held in a military hospital, and i fear for his life. i appeal for support for the release of dawit isaak. (applause) thank you very much.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on the future of the eu's integrated climate policy. we would like to emphasize in this context that the revenue from the trading of emission allowances should be paid to the member states.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the climate is changing. however, it is not clear whether this is mainly or substantially due to human influence or whether it is mainly or substantially part of a natural process. uncertainty is significant both about what is going on and about what should be done. but it is precisely the uncertainty that suggests that we should take the first steps to reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, for example. i have therefore voted in favour of reducing these by 20% by 2020. the european parliament's ad hoc committee on climate change has now produced a report on how the eu should act on climate change. the report is very fragmented. it seems that the members involved are indulging special interests, such as agriculture and tourism. at the same time, it is also calling for more funding and new mechanisms, and in practice proposing major steps towards a centrally planned economy with brussels-led propaganda campaigns in schools and recreation centres. the report is so far removed from the core issues that i have had to vote against it. we cannot go on saying yes to everything that is put forward to demonstrate our legitimate concern, uncertainty and willingness to act on the climate issue.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and freedoms, including the right to freedom of movement for workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. since the report imposes criminal sanctions on the member states, we have chosen, as moderates, not to support it.
madam president, on a point of order, i refer to rule 142(2)(a) and (b) on the allocation of speaking time. yesterday when we were discussing the guantánamo prison, here in the chamber, i and several other speakers were interrupted without mercy when we had exceeded our speaking time by a few seconds. that harsh treatment was meted out by mr pöttering and mr siwiec, the vice-president replacing him later in the afternoon. mr schulz, the socialist group leader, on the other hand, was permitted by mr pöttering to exceed his time limit by far more than a minute. now, i would not dream of insinuating that this was because mr pöttering and mr schulz are buddies – alte kameraden as one might put it in german – but i do spot a recurring pattern here. colleagues from big groups elaborating the political message the chair wants to hear are treated with great generosity. colleagues from smaller groups elaborating the political message the chair does not want to hear are treated with great meanness. now that is in breach of the rules of procedure, where it is clearly stated how speaking time should be allocated. i want to remind mr pöttering and all his vice-presidents – (the president informed the speaker that he had exceeded his speaking time.) i was sent here to defend subsidiarity and the sovereignty of member countries and the president and the vice-presidents of this parliament have no right whatsoever to try and silence the voice of 15% of the swedish electorate.
madam president, can i remind you that this would not have happened to mr schulz. he would not have been interrupted by you. this is the great difference. but you prove my point – thank you very much.
i was born in the balkans. i followed the unrest in kosovo closely in the late 1980s. i have seen slovenia and croatia become independent states and experienced war in the early 1990s. i myself experienced the war in bosnia and eventually left the country as a refugee. i know it is so incredibly easy to start a war, but i also know that it is much harder to make peace and restore people's trust in each other. kosovo is today in a situation which will be crucial for future generations of kosovo in terms of the very re-establishment of trust between different ethnic groups. i am glad that mr lagendijk has been very clear in his resolution that we should put the discussions on kosovo's independence and the conflicts surrounding it behind us. time and effort should now be devoted to the dialogue on how to strengthen the equal right of all people to live in peace, to work and to create a better future for themselves in kosovo. we must concentrate on the effective protection of minorities, the improvement of the economic situation, the fight against widespread corruption and organised crime. all people in kosovo should make it their own mission to help end inter-ethnic violence. the courts should ensure that war crimes are brought to trial. some members of this parliament deplore the eu's presence and involvement in kosovo, but we who have experienced the balkan wars deplore the fact that the eu has not been involved both more clearly and more fully. the work that remains is enormous and it will take time, but it is ultimately about rebuilding trust between people so that the new generations have a chance to educate themselves, live and work together in peace and with respect for each other's differences. that is what the whole european idea is about. (applause) i would like to thank you.
sweden, where i come from, is, like many other countries, heavily dependent on the automobile industry. volvo and saab are well-known brands. the swedish automotive industry, like the rest of the automotive industry, has been hit hard by the crisis. several factors have contributed to the crisis, but a particular factor is the lack of an early and necessary conversion of vehicle production. a shift to smaller, more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles is necessary. the eu has long called for unilateral flexibility on the part of workers. i and the united left demand that we also demand flexibility from the management of the large companies. so the lack of flexibility and innovation has contributed to the crisis we see in the automotive industry and other industries. finally, the automotive industry is an important workplace, an often predominantly male workplace, and it has all our support. i therefore assume that the eu is showing the same commitment when we have a crisis and a downturn in the so-called women's workplace.
author. − normally i use my own mother tongue but, as i am replacing marian harkin, i will try in broken english. this is a common language in this parliament. you mentioned, minister, the administrative burden and the goal of reducing it by 25% by 2012. do you really think that is an ambitious goal? could we not do more, and could you perhaps be more specific about what has been done so far? what are your aims? could you not say 25% by 2010, for instance? that would be rather ambitious.
in writing. the junilists believe that the common agricultural policy (cap) should be abolished and that agricultural products should be sold on a free market without the eu devoting financial resources to information campaigns and promotion measures for these products. the eu's financing of promotion measures in third countries is particularly serious, as it creates unfair competition with agricultural producers in non-eu countries. what is the eu doing? is it really reasonable for the eu to use european taxpayers' money in advertising campaigns to convince the same citizens to buy the goods they have already subsidised? of course not. i'm not going to. there is a stench of hidden protectionism about the whole proposal. in january 2009, a new advertising campaign was launched in sweden, finland, and denmark, urging swedes to buy more tulips. according to resumé magazine, the eu is investing a total of $1.4 million over three years in the tulip campaign in the three countries mentioned. this blatant waste of eu money must come to an end. i am strongly opposed to this report. i would like to say again that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on the eu's agricultural policy, because otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to all groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - this report contains several points which i fully support, such as the dignity of asylum seekers and the need to guarantee human rights at all times. the criticism of a number of so-called asylum centres is justified. several european countries are failing to receive asylum seekers and refugees in a dignified manner. however, the report contains some points which i cannot support. the idea is that the eu should have a common immigration and asylum policy. it also states that the other member states will support those eu countries that 'most face the challenges of immigration'. the junilists believe that asylum and immigration policy is a matter for the member states, provided that international conventions and agreements are respected. a common immigration and asylum policy risks leading to a 'fortress europe', of which we are already seeing clear signs.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of animal by-products in the production of foodstuffs. however, the amendments in the report also contain details which should be handled by officials at the level of the authorities and not by politicians. for example, the references to the quotations: oral feeding: the delivery of feed by mouth to the gastrointestinal tract of the animal in order to meet the nutritional needs of the animal and/or to maintain the productivity of healthy animals or to mineral-containing broilers or to 'trachees, urine and separated gastrointestinal contents after emptying or removal of the digestive tract, irrespective of any treatment or interference. these are certainly important questions in relation to food safety, but should be left to the experts of national authorities. i voted in favour of the report because it contains some important proposals in principle, but that does not mean that i support its approach of going into detail.
writer. - i wish we had discussed the philippines instead, where the eu could have made a real contribution to saving many lives. we are now discussing a particular case in an ongoing court proceeding, where we have the courage to say that we will stand up for the rule of law. where i come from, one of the most fundamental principles of the rule of law is that a parliament does not interfere in individual cases in a court of law. both i and my group believe that it is completely wrong to bring up an individual ongoing judicial process in a parliament. unfortunately, this is not the first or last time, because we are about to vote on the medina report and they are doing exactly the same thing. in an ongoing court case in a swedish court against pirate bay in a copyright case, parliament gives its opinion on the question of liability during the ongoing court case. i really hope that this does not become a habit, because then we in europe would be the ones to challenge and fight our own rule of law, and that would be very unfortunate. thank you, thank you! sorry, i forgot something important. if we are dissatisfied with the way brazil and europe handle extradition and if we are dissatisfied with the way our laws are interpreted in a national court, we should change the laws so that they are equal for all. we're not going in there and trying to influence an individual case. that is the job of the judges, the prosecutors and the defence, not that of parliament. we make laws, and the rule of law says that the courts interpret them.
in writing. the situation in the gaza strip is very serious, as the civilian population is deprived of food, medicine and fuel as a result of the ongoing conflict. the situation is so serious that immediate and external assistance is required. that is why we voted in favour of the resolution. we find it very regrettable, but unfortunately not very surprising, that the european parliament is once again using a disaster to slowly but surely move its positions forward.
for the ind/dem group. is there a need for an economic european legal unit in the field of research, or is this yet another example of the eu's stubborn struggle against european pluralism? the truth is that successful institutional reform requires institutional competition. what if, 50 years ago, an international legal form had been established for research institutions! if that were the case, development in the area would have come to a standstill. amending international treaties is difficult and therefore slow. progress is made by countries being able to easily reform their national institutions. successful reforms then spread to other countries. the commission proposal is not a straitjacket. it offers an alternative to existing national proposals and is therefore an improvement. but the proposal is completely ruined by the fact that the commission also wants to regulate the taxation of this legal entity at eu level. therefore, the proposal must be rejected.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has tabled an opinion. - the report shows that tax issues are sensitive, and i respect that. but at the same time i think that we in the responsible econ committee could have handled the matter better. we are now issuing a text of a resolution, and that is good. the single market must not be disturbed by unfair and unfair competition. there is reason to repeat this in these days when state aid seems to be in the doldrums. however, the eu needs a more sober view of how reduced vat rates can be used to promote jobs and growth, not least in the local market and for labour-intensive services. that is what the commission's proposal is about, that is to say more jobs but also countering the black sector. we therefore need lower vat on, for example, restaurant services, on home care services for the young, sick, disabled and elderly, on hairdressing services and on new goods such as audio books, which is a very important issue in my own country, cds, baby car seats and diapers, home services such as renovation, repair and cleaning. in the imco committee we followed the commission's line and added amendments nos 6 and 7 in the name of malcolm harbour. i would also like to say that it is not easy to understand how these texts and the voting procedure are handled in this parliament. in the first amendment we stress the importance of reducing the black or grey sector. in the second amendment we want to see the possibility of having a lower vat rate on renovation and repair work to save energy. in these tough economic times, various means must be used to boost the economy, and here lower taxes can be an important method. finally, the promotion of alcohol by astrid lulling is here again. as usual, i'd like to politely but firmly reject her temptation.
the rapporteur. - as i have been here for so long, i know how happy members and colleagues will be if i give a two-minute speech. that is why i am not going to do that, but instead i am going to say that this is an example of how we are once again trying to make it easier for citizens to work and settle across borders. it could be a good little example in the election campaign to show off and i'm satisfied with that. we had a unanimous vote in the committee, so that's why it's not happening.
in writing. − there are many strong reasons to simplify the possibilities for cross-border research cooperation within the eu. the proposal for a new common legal unit could be a step in that direction and the drafting of the proposal shows that the commission has a good understanding of the importance of research and the specific working conditions. however, the junilista is adamant on the issue of tax policy. the control of tax bases is a fundamental national concern. i have therefore voted against the commission's proposal and against the report.
in writing. - i regard the eu as a union of values and welcome several of the points in the report which draw our attention to the vulnerability of children around the world. it is clear that society must take responsibility for protecting children's rights, for reducing child mortality in poor countries and for combating all forms of exploitation of children. however, the report also contains some lines which i find difficult to support, including the proposal to appoint an eu special representative responsible for 'ensuring visibility and leadership on children's rights'. the measures needed to safeguard children's rights are and should remain a matter for national parliaments to decide. if international cooperation is deemed necessary, it should be sought within the framework of the un, not the eu. i have voted in favour of the report despite these reservations.
in writing. - we have today voted against the report by mr toia on the social economy (a6-0015/2009). we agree that the social economy plays an important role in today's society, but we cannot support it being subject to different rules than other businesses. it is not possible to draw a clear line between different companies and we do not believe that cooperative and mutual societies should be given preference over, for example, small entrepreneurs in terms of access to finance and other forms of support.
in writing. - we moderates voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on mental health by evangelia tzampazi (a6-0034/2009). we respect the decision of the member states to enter into the european pact for mental health and well-being mentioned in the report. we consider it natural that the member states should cooperate and exchange experience in this area on their own terms. however, we are opposed to the wording of the report which calls for european guidelines for media monitoring of mental health. we do not share the view that this should be done at european level, but we defend a free and independent media.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats decided to abstain. of course, we have no objection to research and increased knowledge of fisheries and related sectors. but above all, we believe that the eu must go from words to action in fisheries policy. the eu must act quickly to tackle the problems of overfishing and endangered stocks. this must be the starting point and the focus of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - we moderates voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on applied research in the common fisheries policy by rosa miguélez ramos (a6-0016/2009). we share the basic view of the report that fisheries policy should be based on science and that a consensus between fishermen and scientists is the basis for a policy based on sustainability. however, we believe that the seventh framework programme, with its priorities and limitations, should be fixed.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the report by mr ramos on applied research in the common fisheries policy. it is important to support increased research efforts on the impact of fisheries policy on fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity. i am therefore deeply critical of parts of the eu's fisheries policy. however, miguelez ramos stresses the importance of policy decisions being based on science and long-term sustainability, and not primarily on the short-term interests of the fishing industry, which i see as positive. i am, however, critical of any interpretation of the report which could mean more money being allocated to financial support for the european fishing industry and giving it a higher status. a clear environmental perspective should permeate all research in the fisheries sector.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it is important to support increased research efforts on the impact of fisheries policy on fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity. we are deeply critical of parts of the eu's fisheries policy on environmental grounds. miguelez ramos stresses the importance of policy decisions being based on science and long-term sustainability, and not primarily on the short-term interests of the fishing industry, which we see as positive. we are, however, critical of any interpretation of the report which would mean that more money is allocated to financial support for the european fishing industry and to give it a higher status. a clear environmental perspective should permeate all fisheries research for which additional resources are allocated.
in writing. − the ability for european citizens to work and live in another member state is an important right and i support the intentions to facilitate the mobility of professionals and to guarantee the safety of consumers. however, there are aspects of the cederschiöld report that i do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market. regarding the inclusion of health-care professionals in the agreement, i see a risk of deregulation of the healthcare sector. therefore i abstained in the final vote on the report.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i support the global moratorium on commercial whaling and the ban on international trade in whale products. there are also good reasons to seek an end to what is called 'scientific whaling'. when these issues are dealt with at international level, cooperation should be sought through the international whaling commission (iwc), not through the eu. despite this objection of principle, i have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report on community participation in the european audiovisual observatory. it is the responsibility of the member states to engage in and finance the european audiovisual observatory.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european visa policy, which would allow the eu to grant visas to eu citizens. this is why we finally decided to support the fava report, as it sends a clear message that it is not acceptable for employers to exploit the vulnerability of undocumented immigrants and as it gives rights to the undocumented which are currently lacking in several eu member states. a precondition for our being able to vote in favour of the report was the council's acceptance of parliament's statement that article 9 would in no way be prejudicial in the future. this could make it difficult to adopt common rules on the liability of main contractors for their subcontractors. we take it for granted that the main contractor should be responsible for ensuring that subcontractors comply with collective agreements. employers should not be able to circumvent the application of labour law rules by using a complex chain of subcontractors. however, in this directive the liability is limited to the first level of subcontractors, which we do not see as acceptable. it is important to remember, however, that nothing prevents individual member states from introducing more comprehensive legislation. we are also opposed in principle to exempting private individuals who employ undocumented workers to work in their homes from sanctions. we believe that undocumented workers are equally vulnerable, even if they work for private individuals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on sanctions against employers who employ illegally staying third-country nationals. the aim of the proposal is to combat the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals by employers and to strengthen workers' rights. the person to be punished for illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the employee. in some eu countries, this type of legislation is lacking. in others, legislation exists, but it is not implemented or followed. common eu rules to combat the exploitation and employment of illegal labour are therefore a way to raise the bar for many eu countries. the proposal we are voting on today has several shortcomings. if i had my way, a lot of parts would look different. for example, i would like to see stronger protection for women in domestic work. but the alternative we face is no directive at all - and less protection for the 4-8 million illegally staying third country nationals who are currently working illegally in the eu, and are often exploited by employers in a very vulnerable situation. while it is important to combat illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, it is also important to ensure that opportunities to reside and seek work legally within the eu are strengthened. this is regulated in other directives which we in the european parliament have been involved in negotiating over the last year.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens. the aim of the proposal is to combat the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals by employers and to strengthen workers' rights. the person to be punished for illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the employee. in some eu countries, this type of legislation is lacking. in others, legislation exists, but it is not implemented or followed. common eu rules to combat the exploitation and employment of illegal labour are therefore a way to raise the bar for many eu countries. the proposal we are voting on today has several shortcomings. if we had a choice, many parts of the world would look very different. for example, we would like to see stronger protection for women in domestic work. but the alternative we face is no directive at all - and less protection for the 4-8 million illegally staying third country nationals who are currently working illegally in the eu, and are often exploited by employers in a very vulnerable situation. while it is important to combat illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, it is also important to ensure that opportunities to reside and seek work legally within the eu are strengthened. this is regulated in other directives which we in the european parliament have been involved in negotiating over the last year.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens. the aim of the proposal is to combat the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals by employers and to strengthen workers' rights. the person to be punished for illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the employee. in some eu countries, this type of legislation is lacking. in others, legislation exists, but it is not implemented or followed. common eu rules to combat the exploitation and employment of illegal labour are therefore a way to raise the bar for many eu countries. the proposal we are voting on today has several shortcomings. if we had a choice, many parts of the world would look very different. for example, we would like to see stronger protection for women in domestic work. but the alternative we face is no directive at all - and less protection for the 4-8 million illegally staying third country nationals who are currently working illegally in the eu, and are often exploited by employers in a very vulnerable situation. while it is important to combat illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, it is also important to ensure that opportunities to reside and seek work legally within the eu are strengthened. this is regulated in other directives which the european parliament has been involved in negotiating over the past year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, partly because the commission's proposal aims to simplify the current legislation and partly because agricultural statistics are still necessary in the current context of the common agricultural policy. i would like to emphasize that my vote in favour of this report is not in support of the cap per se.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. we would like to stress, however, that we do not see reduced tax rates as the solution to the problem of a 'black' economy.
in writing. − even though there are contentious elements in the cia resolution, like welcoming the eu-us agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition, i still voted in favour of the resolution to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
in writing. - i have previously expressed my disgust at the information that has emerged regarding the treatment of suspects, but not convicted persons, who have been extradited and in some cases kidnapped by the authorities of different states. it is completely unacceptable and contrary to the principles of modern democracy. the question is not yet settled, which is why it is good to shed light on the events. the resolution of parliament contains several positive elements, but i think that the ambitions of foreign policy are being overreached by including irrelevant documents. this takes the focus away from the core issue, namely the alleged violations of human rights. this is very unfortunate. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - we chose to vote against this own-initiative report as a whole because we consider it superfluous. the report is bad in some respects and does not contribute to the debate on european security policy.
in writing. - we support increased cooperation with the mediterranean countries, but we cannot support increased eu power in integration policy (as stated in paragraph 29). we also regret that the report does not make demands on the occupying powers, such as israel and morocco. in a report which talks about strengthening human rights in the mediterranean, this would be a minimum requirement. that is why we voted against it in the vote.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. − mr president, i oppose both parts of mr cohn-bendit’s proposals because less than a month ago we debated this topic and voted on it in the committee on the environment, as we heard was suggested earlier. so i would say it has been done, and especially at this time, at the end of the legislative period, when we hardly have time for important legislative talks, then i think it would be wrong to give this specific topic priority. we cannot give priority to debates, at this time, which have already been dealt with and especially to do that just because the greens feel that they are not getting enough attention in the run-up to the election would be really irresponsible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many of my colleagues are concerned about the rise of anti-semitism in europe. in my home town of malmö, sweden played against israel in a davis cup tennis match over the weekend. it wasn't a regular game. it was played without an audience because the local political leadership did not believe that security could be achieved, an approach that many of us have criticized. there were demonstrations during the match, some very violent. it is legitimate to criticise the policies of the state of israel, but this criticism must not turn into hatred of jews in general, into anti-semitism. survivors of the holocaust should not have to hear that europe is cursing murderers, murderers when they gather to manifest their support for the state of israel. in the aftermath of the war in gaza, a series of attacks have occurred in the eu against jewish property and jewish interests, including in my home town. all democratic forces must be extremely clear here. europe has a terrible history. it must never be repeated.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu is facing the global financial crisis with a budget designed half a century ago. the rapporteur believes that the eu must deal with the modern globalised world with a budget where virtually all the money is pledged to a crazy agricultural policy and an ineffective regional policy. it's like attacking a modern mechanized robotic brigade with cavalry. and the order of magnitude is grotesquely different. the cost of cleaning up the financial crisis is impossible to estimate at this stage, but one estimate presented gives a figure of 50 000 billion dollars. the total eu budget is only a few tens of thousands of this amount and is therefore already mortgaged to agriculture and regional policy. the eu has required each member state to implement a stimulus package equivalent to just over 1% of its gdp. this is already more than the entire eu budget, which amounts to just under 1%. it is also pathetic to see the way in which these two reports deal with the financing of climate and energy policy. in these areas too, the eu budget is completely negligible. the eu's task is to bring about cooperation and commitment, and these costs must be borne by the member states after being democratically anchored there. the same applies to energy policy. gas pipelines are cheaper to run on land than on the seabed. the fact that russia and germany are building a gas pipeline on the seabed directly between their countries is to exclude them, it is a new rapallo, and the eu is silent. "words fly, but thoughts stand still", says the king in hamlet.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i should like to thank the two rapporteurs. ladies first, and not only these days, i will start by thanking ms herczog for the quality of her report on the small business act (sba) and the strong support it provides for the commission’s initiative to establish a comprehensive policy on small- and medium-sized enterprises. i would also like to pay tribute to mr lehne, not only for his efficiency and work in steering the private company statute through the consultation procedure, but also for the interesting and creative solutions presented in the report. we are now really in a critical phase. we listen every day to the messages, such as the need to boost and renew confidence in the functioning of the global economy. the financial and economic crisis has hit european businesses really hard, and i believe that it is now more important than ever to exploit to the full the potential of small- and medium-sized enterprises. this is the very lifeline of the european economy. the small business act, which the commission adopted in june 2008, provides a comprehensive framework of short-, medium- and long-term actions for sme growth and competitiveness within the lisbon strategy. it proposes 10 policy principles and a number of concrete initiatives to make sure that the concerns of smes are placed at the centre of decision-making – as ms herczog said, mainstreaming smes into the centre of attention and strategies. the sba includes a set of legislative initiatives, including the proposal for a european private company statute. the sba is designed to ensure that the ‘think small first’ principle and priority for small businesses are lastingly and irreversibly anchored in policy-making across the union. the sba also calls for greater recognition of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. we need people who are prepared to take initiatives, draft projects and take risks more than ever at times like this. we also believe, therefore, that honest entrepreneurs who suffer business failure deserve a second chance. in the current economic crisis, we need to establish priorities and focus on delivering quickly on those actions which have the strongest potential to contribute to recovery. the sba action plan and the european economic recovery plan propose ambitious measures in three key areas: first, loosening the supply of much-needed credit; secondly, reducing the administrative burden; and, thirdly, helping smes do business abroad. making a success of the small business act depends on the seamless cooperation of all stakeholders. we are grateful for your support. the resolution that parliament adopted in early december was a timely and strongly welcomed initiative. as you know, at the summit later in december, the heads of state and government unanimously endorsed the small business act, under the french presidency. it is, therefore, important that this house gives its full support today to ms herczog’s report, to establish a solid and legitimate basis for further action. i would like to invite you to promote the small business act in your respective countries and your constituencies to help make sure that this ambitious policy programme becomes reality and that it really helps smes in their daily business. let me turn now to mr lehne's two reports. parliament has always been a strong supporter of the european private company statute. your own-initiative report of 2006 and your swift handling of the commission’s proposal are important contributions to the success of the new european company statute. the private company statute is a key element of the small business act. it is designed for smes. therefore, the commission proposed that a european private company may be set up just like any domestic company, without the requirement for doing business in different member states or having shareholders from more than one country – just like at home. there are those who consider such a cross-border requirement essential for a european company forum. parliament’s resolution, which allows companies a choice between a variety of cross-border elements, is flexible. european private companies could comply with this requirement, for example by setting up a foreign subsidiary or by simply recording their intention to do cross-border business. you have also suggested a flexible solution for the minimum capital requirement. as you know, the commission’s proposal required a minimum capital of just one euro, and beyond that left it to the shareholders to decide on how much capital their european private company needs. this provision has been questioned by those who consider that capital requirements have a role in protecting the creditors of small companies. the european parliament report has put forward alternative solutions to improve creditor protection. it means companies would be able to choose between a solvency-based or capital-maintenance-based creditor protection regime. the commission agrees with those elements of the report that aim to increase the uniformity of the statute and thus promote the legal certainty of its application. these include prescribing the registration of the company’s business object, clarifying that the ban on offering shares to the public does not preclude offers to the employees of the company, or improving the rules on directors’ duties and liabilities. all of these make a helpful contribution which will facilitate the application of this statute. i also welcome your useful suggestion of an arbitration clause which encourages the shareholders to use alternative means of dispute resolution. finally, i should like to mention the subject that has been the most debated in parliament and elsewhere, which is workers’ participation on the board of european private companies. as i have already mentioned, the commission designed a statute for smaller businesses. employee participation in smes exists only in a few member states, and this is why a solution based on national laws, which would allow for the coexistence of different models, seemed the most appropriate and reasonable approach. parliament’s amendments introduce additional and complex provisions that are not applicable to smes formed under national law in most member states. this is likely to make the european private company statute unattractive in those member states and a much less viable option for smes. to conclude, there are a number of useful solutions in your report. some of them could very well pave the way for a swifter compromise among the member states. the commission, therefore, welcomes the adoption of this report. finally, regarding the cross-border transfer of the seat of companies: the commission has informed parliament on previous occasions of its reasons for not proposing the 14th company law directive. these reasons are still valid. we agree with the rapporteur that companies should enjoy freedom of establishment within the single market and be able to move their seats from one country to another. however, we are not convinced that proposing new legislation now is the best solution to achieve this objective. court of justice case-law clearly allows for company mobility. in addition, existing legislation – the cross-border mergers directive – provides a framework for the transfer, including the necessary safeguards for third parties. in particular, the cross-border mergers directive allows a company to set up a new subsidiary in another country and then merge its existing company with that subsidiary. the transfer procedure and safeguards suggested by the committee on legal affairs are very similar to those put forward by the directive. our economic analyses show that the level of complexity of the cross-border transfer procedure would be comparable to that of the cross-border merger procedure. the cross-border mergers directive was due to be transposed by member states by december 2007. it is too early to assess its full application. before embarking on any new legislation, the commission should first evaluate how this new existing regulatory framework operates in practice. we are also not convinced that the directive would improve the existing situation under national law and the jurisprudence of the european court of justice in this area. finally, in the light of the above and with the current legislature about to end, it would be more appropriate for the next commission to decide on how to proceed on this issue of the transfer of a company's registered office. by then it will also become clearer how the issue of seat transfer was solved in the spe statute.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? the conditions and opportunities of small businesses today are crucial to the growth of the jobs of tomorrow. it is absolutely crucial to our ability to emerge from the crisis into a better and more knowledge-based and competitive economy. it is small businesses that are driving innovation forward, but it is also small businesses that today have the greatest credit problems in the different member states and in the union as a whole. what we are going to do here with a european charter for small enterprises - and i would like to thank the commission for the proposal and the rapporteur for her efforts - is to open up the internal market to small enterprises as much as to large ones. that's where a new road needs to be dug. as we have discussed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, this involves a wide-ranging regulatory work which opens doors for small businesses. it is about ensuring that small firms can participate in public procurement on an equal footing with large firms, through the way in which public procurement is carried out. it is about making it easier for small businesses to act across borders, including on issues such as paying vat, and that we can combat the bureaucracy that is a hindrance today. it is also about making the european financial markets more suitable for expansion and growth through the efforts of the european investment bank and others, by creating a better credit market for small businesses. may i finally say: small is beautiful. small will be bigger tomorrow and give new jobs and more prosperity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we know that small businesses are the backbone of our economy. in particular, the eu and the member states must make life easier for small businesses, both existing and new ones, by reducing rules, red tape and costs. smes have a very different capacity than traditional large enterprises to adapt to new circumstances and to adopt new findings and technologies. in addition to making it easier for small businesses to participate in public procurement through better access to the internal market, facilitating access to capital and making state aid rules non-discriminatory, this is a change in attitudes that permeates all decision-making, in school, university and work. research shows that entrepreneurship is strongly linked to growth. the forthcoming swedish presidency will in particular address targeted efforts to facilitate female entrepreneurship, an important european strategy for the future.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the creation of fortress europe is moving faster and faster with each passing year. this is very unfortunate, not least because a common asylum policy will most likely mean a tougher and more restrictive policy in which those in need of protection will be the big losers. that development is worrying to say the least. the report states that the aim is to establish uniform standards for the recognition of a person as a refugee. why, one might ask. there are already international conventions that provide for this. the creation of new eu standards that would most likely be more restrictive than, for example, the geneva convention is not to be pursued. almost every week, we receive harrowing news from refugee camps in southern europe. people who have been there live in terrible conditions that the authorities choose to ignore. the problem is, of course, not the individuals in the camps but the fact that human rights are not respected. this is despite the fact that all member states meet the copenhagen criteria, at least in theory, and this is the question that should be discussed here in parliament. access to the territory of a country must be a matter for each country to decide, but of course international conventions and agreements must be respected.
madam president, commissioner barrot, this is the commission. i would like to begin by thanking mr giusto catania for his report. i fully share the view that it is unfortunate that the entry into force has been postponed until 2012. i would like to mention three points: children's rights, support and opportunities for women in human trafficking and, finally, how to be better prepared when something happens suddenly in the world. i think it is good that parliament is insisting that children and minors should receive special support. what still worries me, though, is that children can be taken into custody. this is unacceptable to me. today is the day after international women's day. the issue that has engaged me in this election is how different countries treat women and children in trafficking, that is, whether they have the right to stay in the eu or to be helped to return home. when the social democrats ruled sweden, it was natural that women who had been violated in sweden - whether it was through human trafficking, marriage or if they were subjected to violence - had the right to stay. now, the question is whether or not the woman can stay, but only if she cooperates with the police and the prosecutor. for which crimes other than trafficking in human beings is cooperation a requirement for asylum? i think this is discrimination against women and children and i want to raise this issue today, after women's day. the third question is how different countries receive asylum seekers and which countries they choose. my country, sweden, is one of the countries that has taken in the largest number of iraqi refugees. compared to both the united states and canada, that is an enormous number, and the same is true of most eu countries. i hope that the new asylum system in the eu will be better prepared for shared responsibility when things happen in the world or, as in the case of iraq, when countries are invaded. a european solidarity system cannot only work in times of calm, it must also work in times of crisis and conflict.
for the alde group. i am not sure that this is the case. this is a good report with clear environmental and safety objectives. the committee was clear on noise and health. as many as 210 million europeans are exposed to traffic noise today, which according to the who is a direct health hazard. noise from tyres is not the only way to reduce traffic noise, but the best results are achieved with a combination of measures, of which noise emissions from tyres are an important part. some, perhaps here too, say that there is a contradiction between noise emission and the safety characteristics of tyres. this is not supported by any of the in-depth and independent studies that have been carried out. that is why we are disappointed that the compromise does not reflect what we voted for in committee. as regards lorries, 90% of tyres already meet the noise levels set out in the compromise. this is not what we call a high level of ambition, unfortunately.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is very important legislation. it has led, among other things, to the improvement of a very big problem in sweden, with dried-up lakes. but it is also important not to allow any further derogations or longer time limits in this directive, in order to continue this positive development with less fall-off of dangerous emissions across europe. that means that we want to remove these possibilities for further extension of the derogations. we would also like to see a clear limit on co2 emissions. emissions trading is not a sufficient tool to deal with the peak crisis we face. we're going to see that now as we go into a recession, where we're going to automatically have a lot of available allowances. they will be sold at a very cheap price, which means that we will miss several years in the transition needed to make it in the long term and that after this recession we will be less equipped and less able to cope with this development if we do not introduce complementary measures such as emission requirements for large combustion plants. i therefore find it very regrettable that these amendments have been considered inadmissible for the vote.
mr president, since i have limited time, having thanked mr krahmer for his hard work, allow me to focus on amendments 136-139, where some 40 colleagues, including myself, suggest that this directive should include an environment performance standard for large combustion plants, limiting co2 emissions in the future. at this very moment it is unclear whether these four amendments will be voted on later today. a recast includes the provision stating that if new developments merit amendments and suggestions, going beyond the original proposal, then that should be possible. i believe that recent science is enough substantive evidence that we need to be more ambitious than we thought just one or two years ago, when it comes to climate change mitigation. the emission trading system (ets) is, in my opinion, not sufficient to reach the 2°c target that the eu has agreed on. as currently designed, the emission trading system will lead to a carbon-free power sector only after some 60-65 years. that is why we have tabled these amendments, where we call for all power plants that are built in the future to limit their emissions to 350 g co2 from 2020 and onwards and those which are already in existence should be retrofitted by 2025 or close down. the proposal is technology-neutral and can be achieved by different means. i would strongly urge the president to agree that we can vote on those amendments, and i encourage colleagues to give their full support.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we fully share cashman's intentions and commitment to openness, but we should not forget that there is a regulation that is now being revised. we have jointly pushed through the current transparency legislation. the four nordic member states write to the committee about this regulation, saying that it increases citizens' confidence in the eu and that it provides the greatest possible transparency. cashman and i have always had the best cooperation, but this time, we were running out of time to sort out all the confusion. in other words, it is quite early in the process, but i welcome many of the proposals and look forward to more cooperation. when the transparency regulation was adopted, the epp's 'yes' vote was decisive for that victory. the epp votes will again have little bearing on the final outcome, which will probably come in a new parliament. the epp wants to use its votes to strengthen legal certainty, predictability and clarity when the rules are being shaped in the ongoing process. we want more transparency, we want citizens to be able to follow the democratic debate. we believe that this matter needs to be prepared more so that there are uniform impact assessments on the functioning of the institutions, for example. a number of amendments, 40 to 50, which circumvent the commission's right of initiative have caused some debate. we would just like to add that this should not cause any more confusion, because that would be contrary to the purpose of the revision. what's on the table today will likely be modified on the other side of the election. the epp wants to achieve transparency that can be supported by all eu citizens and member states. it requires that the stakeholders know what is relevant to the purpose of the proposal. nor can sanctions be used unless there are clear instructions. as regards sanctions, there is already a regulatory framework to be taken into account. we therefore regard the proposal as a product which is not yet ready, but we fully agree with mr cashman that it should lead to greater transparency and we also write that in our amendments. transparency is an essential part of democracy. i have five minutes for the ppe-de group, so could i just say my last few words? we are in favour of greater openness but we want to avoid a naiveté that could put people in danger or abuse. will the ppe-de group lose the three minutes, or what?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. transparency and publicity in all matters relating to legislation and policy decisions is one of the most important factors in a democratic society. transparency and openness create participation and confidence in the political system. conversely, secrecy and withholding of documents create distrust, a feeling of inaction, and can sometimes contribute to abuse of power and corruption. more and more of the national legislation, with the principle of publicity we have in sweden, for example, is now done at eu level. the decisions have been transferred to the eu level, but transparency and publicity have not followed. our citizens see this, of course, and this is one reason why we have low voter turnout in the european elections. citizens have difficulty penetrating and understanding the decision-making process in the eu system and rightly feel that decisions and legislation are taken at eu level without having had a real opportunity to see all the documents. as a result, they have no opportunity to discuss, debate and influence decision-makers. we all want to increase turnout in the european elections, but if we are to succeed, campaigning and calling on people to vote is not enough. for this to be meaningful, we must do everything possible to ensure that citizens have the knowledge and information they need. we must create a dialogue with the citizens instead of one-sided information from above. publicity shall be the main principle, secrecy shall be the exception and shall be decided in a specific order, and there shall be strong reasons to allow secrecy. i and the united left have tabled amendments which, among other things, broaden the definition of documents, make more documents public and prevent individual member states from vetoing them. commissioner wallström said that a good instrument can be made better. unfortunately, this report does not actually lead to improvements but to deteriorations, but we can do better by supporting my amendments and those of the united left. so for the sake of democracy, vote for the united left amendment and increase the citizen's participation.
mr president, commissioner wallström, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking michael cashman and others who have helped us to take this new and long-awaited step in making our work more accessible to our citizens. vice-president wallström has also fought hard and for a long time. when sweden joined the eu, many were worried that documents would leak through sweden, which has a very strong public disclosure principle, but that has not happened at all. michael cashman can tell you that, because if you're for openness and accessibility, you also know where the boundaries are for work materials, secrecy and disclosure. in libe, the epp voted down. i hope you are now in favour of increasing publicity in the eu, so that the swedish presidency, together with the rest of us, can develop this very important and central issue of democracy for all eu citizens. but i can understand the conservative group's hesitation, since you were the group that forced us to hold a secret vote when turkey was about to start membership negotiations. is that what you want? i hope that parliament is now united and that we can proudly tell the voters in the eu elections in june that the eu is becoming more and more open that we have no hidden agendas and want to be scrutinized and judged for what we do and with a publicity we can be proud of. we do a lot of good things and it would be good if citizens could follow our work better.
mr president, i am sorry to prolong this discussion, but may i build on what was just said by my colleagues, mrs doyle and mrs frassoni? as one of the authors of several of the amendments, i was in contact with the president’s office until 11.50 and could not obtain a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ as to whether the amendments we tabled – 136 to 139 – would be voted upon or not. it was unclear, and the last word was that the vote would probably be postponed. as avril doyle said, we simply cannot understand why these amendments are inadmissible. in the interests of clarity, we should have some more time and have clarification from the president’s office.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we think it is an important complement to the lehne report on the statute for european private joint stock companies. we believe that the lack of a common framework for the relocation of companies' head offices poses problems for companies wishing to move across borders in the internal market, as companies are today forced to go into liquidation and thus be wound up in order to move their head offices. we also think it is good that the european parliament is proposing that the transfer of the seat of a company should not involve circumvention of legal, social or fiscal conditions. we also welcome the european parliament's emphasis on the tax neutrality of a transfer of the registered office. however, we do not share all the conclusions reached by the committee in the course of its discussions of the report. for example, we consider that the wording in recital g that the european parliament cannot legislate is contrary to the case law of the court of justice. we would point out that it is the european parliament which, together with the council, makes laws and it is then for the court of justice to interpret the law made, not the other way around. we would also have liked to see the wording of the report, 'the european parliament stresses the positive effects of tax competition on economic growth in the light of the lisbon strategy', deleted.
in writing. - in junilist we are of course for equal treatment, equal pay for equal work and the fundamental principle of equality between women and men. that is why we voted in favour of this report. however, it is a yes vote with a clear reservation. we oppose the european parliament trying to decide how individual member states should structure their national childcare system or apply quotas, for example. the present report is a typical example of the european parliament's regulatory zeal and its eagerness to do its job. instead of acting as a forum for the urgent challenges of crossborder cooperation, it is trying to meddle in matters that are and will remain national affairs.
in writing. − the original ippc directive and the other six directives have not been fully implemented in eu member states and thus do not fulfil their purpose. that is why we decided to review these directives, and we voted on this in the european parliament today. we swedish social democrats are in favour of a revision and see that it contains some improvements compared to the existing rules. we voted against the directive in the final vote because we believe that some of the amendments voted for represent a major deterioration in relation to the commission's original proposal. for example, we could not accept further exemptions for large combustion plants. another reason why we felt compelled to vote against is that the proposal misses the chance to seriously reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the rejection of the amendments tabled by our delegation, which advocated limit values for co2 emissions from new large-scale electricity generating installations, shows that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not taken seriously. we cannot support such a proposal.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal on a statute for a european private company allows an opportunity for unserious companies to circumvent the rules on workers participation. if the private european company has its registered office in a member state with low or no workers’ participation and performs its activities in another member state with high participation, the company can circumvent the rules. the socialist group in the parliament has however, together with the etuc, reached a compromise, which improve the commissions proposal substantially. the compromise now state that when the companies have a certain quota of their employees in another member state with higher workers participation, compared to the member state where the company has its headquarters, the more favourable rules for workers participation will apply. although the compromise is far better than the original proposal, we have not succeeded fully. the levels to trigger workers participation are still high compared to the rules in some member states and there are also problems with the definition of what is regarded to be a higher level of workers participation. we - the danish and the swedish delegations in the socialist group - have therefore decided to abstain our votes in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against the final vote on the spe articles of association. the basic idea of introducing a common european corporate form for private companies is a great one. it is a reform that is sorely needed. the commission's proposal is really bad. the distinction between the application of national law versus the spe charter is very unclear. a large part of the company's statutes is to be dealt with in the articles of association. while this may be beneficial for some companies, some issues are of such a nature that they must be clearly specified in the statutes, such as the delimitation of the powers of the company's organs and the protection of minority shareholders. the degree of employee representation in management is also poor. the spe charter has been substantially improved during the current council negotiations and i remain hopeful that the final result will be good. however, this is not the proposal on which we have had to take a position today. it is the commission's proposal, in the modified form of lehne. and then my decision is pretty simple: the ambiguities and problems of this proposal overshadow the positive aspects of the reform, and the risk is therefore imminent that we will have a statute which will defeat its purpose. moreover, an endorsement of this report in view of the positive progress already made by the council would put the wheels of their work in motion. we are not voting for the council's proposal, but for the commission's proposal. that is why i chose to vote no.
in writing. the report calls for even more financial resources to be allocated to each area of the eu, while member states must make savings in areas such as health, education and care. in addition, several areas identified in the report, such as the financial crisis, climate change and energy policy, will be associated with enormous costs that are out of proportion to the eu budget. these are questions which must be addressed in the individual countries following an internal political process leading to a democratic consolidation of the sacrifices in question. we have therefore voted against this report on the commission's budget for 2010.
in writing. − at a time when cuts are being made in health, education and care in the common sector, savings should also be made in the eu institutions. we believe that the budgets of the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee should definitely be cut. the eu taxpayers would not notice any difference if these two institutions were to be charged with a major austerity measure. we also oppose an increase in the number of staff in the political groups of the european parliament. this is not a necessary expense in the current situation. the opening of a museum of european history, as decided by the bureau of the european parliament, is also not a good idea. experience shows that such a museum will be designed as propaganda for an even more federal europe. we have therefore voted against this report on, among other things, the european parliament's budget for 2010.
in writing. - this report, outside the legislative procedure, advocates a number of costly proposals such as an eu product quality authority and new promotion and support measures in agriculture. we also want to warn that the report contains formulations that could lead to an even more protectionist policy on agricultural products on the part of the eu. as usual, we in junilistan can say that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on the eu's agricultural policy at this stage, because then the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to various groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i chose not to support the report by mrs petre on the promotion and strengthening of food labelling. the report contained good proposals for simplification of rules and shorter processing times. however, in my view, these were overridden by protectionist writings on conditional market access and the desire to create a supranational authority for product quality.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i very much appreciated the fact that member states in the barcelona objectives adopted targets for children's access to childcare. i thought - and still think - that the targets were low, but it was a start. access to good childcare is a prerequisite for women's access to employment and it is also a prerequisite for gender equality. but now i am concerned that the objectives are not being achieved and, of course, that the czech presidency is sending signals to replace the childcare objective with home care as a viable alternative and that it is therefore desirable that the objective should be removed. but i would also like to thank commissioner špidla, who has indeed made it clear that the commission still considers it important to achieve the barcelona objectives in the area of childcare. i would also like to thank my colleague mr retsetaris for the proposal on mainstreaming children. i think we should work together to fix it.
for the pse group. madam president, commissioner špidla, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his reply and the committee for its initiative. it is time that this matter was discussed in parliament. the lisbon treaty makes child issues an objective in the eu and gives them a legal basis. parliament also adopted a strategy for children a year ago, pending the treaty. it's a scandal that children are left to live on their own. of course, a mother and father may have to move for work or escape, but it is we as members of the european parliament who must take responsibility when we adopt rules that say, for example, that asylum is granted only to the applicant and not to his family, because it is usually men who flee and women and children who are left at home. or when employers import labor and don't pretend, ask or care about the presence of children at home. i therefore fully support the demands made by the socialist group in its question. it is urgent and it is necessary to have an impact assessment. the commission must act on the basis of the study commissioned by the commissioner, and this is urgent. better information on children's rights and schooling must be developed. we must also inform and help the children who are now in this situation. we have to involve the parties and the ngos and we have to come up with proposals. i also believe that a relatively new group, i.e. unaccompanied refugee children, could also be included in the kind of work described by the commissioner. children should be raised with warmth and care and are not something that the market should control. we politicians have an obligation and we have to take it on, so give us child mainstreaming and give us child impact assessments of this huge problem. otherwise, we'll be embarrassed in front of the next generation.
the rapporteur. mr president, the president of the council, the commission! there has been a discussion on whether or not the employment guidelines need to be amended. it is not a particularly important discussion, because within the employment guidelines there is every opportunity to act. the problem now is lack of action. we have had and have a financial crisis which has become an economic crisis, and now the employment crisis is coming and we will have social problems in the future. it is good that an employment summit is being held in may, but we must not isolate employment issues from economic issues. that is why they must be integrated into the discussion. i think that too little has been done and too late. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the single market is not undermined. we need more action, more coordinated action - certainly above 2 percent - to deal with it. the risk of not doing enough and of doing it too late is much, much greater than doing too much, because it will result in increased unemployment and it will result in reduced tax revenues, which will affect the social problems out there in the member states. what are we gonna do? we know that pretty well. we will link what is good in the short term in terms of fighting unemployment with what is good in the long term. it is about environmental investment, it is about new infrastructure projects, it is about energy efficiency in housing and it is about education, education and education. we've been talking about lifelong learning. we've never done enough, but now we have a chance to make a powerful educational effort. we're also going to stimulate demand, and then we're going to target those groups that are going to use the means of consumption: the unemployed, the families with children, the retirees and others who are going to use an increased amount of money to consume. we will do what we can at eu level and we are trying to speed up the processing of the social fund and the globalisation fund so that the funds can be channelled into the member states. but let us be honest, we know that the great financial resources are in the member states and unless the member states act sufficiently and sufficiently coordinated, we will not succeed. if we look around and clean up what the member states have done, only one country comes up to 1.5 per cent, and that is germany, which was not the country in the front line when it came to acting. other countries, such as the nordic countries, where i come from, are making very little effort to act despite their good economic situation. the social consequences. you have mentioned them, and they are extremely important. they affect not only social security systems but also the public sector. the public sector is doubly important. it is about giving people childcare, elderly care, social security but it is also important for employment. there are a lot of people in the public sector and we have to make sure that it has sufficient financial resources. i'll also take the young people. young people are now entering unemployment directly from university. we must create opportunities for young people to get jobs or further education or whatever it may be. otherwise, we're gonna be in trouble for the future. finally, we must act. we must act in a coordinated way, with solidarity, we must act now and not wait, and we must act with sufficient effort. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon strategy is one of the eu's best projects. member states will voluntarily reform their economies to create prosperity and good adaptability, both to foreseen changes such as ageing populations and to unforeseen changes such as collapsing financial markets. the strategy is to promote efficient markets, entrepreneurship, education, research and stable public finances, and now we are being tested. if we had all had a flexible economy, the right monetary policy and sound public finances when the financial crisis hit, europe would have fared much better. but we haven't. the lisbon strategy has not been implemented, and at the same time the euro has brought about an all too easy monetary policy for ireland, spain, italy and greece. in addition, several countries have been able to mismanage their public finances in protection of the euro. that's why the imbalances are so gigantic. the lisbon strategy is a good idea that has been scrapped. the euro is a bad idea that has made the problems worse.
mr president, this debate is about jobs, and jobs and new prosperity. that is why i am a little surprised to hear, from the socialist group, criticisms of those who have been responsible for realistic policies in europe, because the socialists, more than anyone else, called for lower interest rates at the peak of the economy, just as they implemented monetary policy in the us. it is lax monetary policy, more than anything else, that has eroded the us economy. mr schulz should feel thankful that europe and the european central bank did not listen to him, because, if it had, the european economy would have been much worse off. i appreciate we can agree on that point. that also goes for the policy that you are recommending today, because now you are talking about eurobonds which, among other things, would lead to higher interest rates for the countries of central europe. that is not solidarity in a time of financial crisis, and we would do well not listen to mr schultz this time either. we need to take action, but we need to take the right actions in order not to deepen the crisis and to secure stability. (interjection from the floor)no, you have not been in power, but you are guilty of a lot of things too, and if we had listened to you we would have been worse off. that was an agreement between you and me, was it not? i appreciate the consensus in parliament that your policy was wrong. mr president, what we need now is stability. we need to abide by competition rules and state aid rules in order to secure open barriers and trade, because exports need more imports and imports need exports. that is the way we can achieve more jobs.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? the crisis is now becoming real for people, unemployment is now starting to rise, and it's rising fast, and we're starting to see the social consequences of the crisis. the downturn is going to be bigger than we thought at first. there will be higher unemployment, there will be greater social consequences. i would like to say something to the conservative group in this parliament. hökmark is not here, but hökmark blamed the crisis on the social democrats' proposals. it's like shooting the pianist if you don't like the song. it is true that we have centre-right and right-wing governments in europe. they are the ones who show a lack of action, they are the ones who show a lack of coordination, they are the ones who show a lack of solidarity. now it is about jobs, now it is about social security systems and now it is about the public sector. i say to the commission and the council before the summit: we must act now, we must act in a coordinated way, we must act with sufficient effort and we must act with solidarity. this is the time to do it. we cannot wait for the summit in may; employment issues must be at the top of the agenda now. (applause) i would like to thank you.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i have the honour of giving the following declaration on behalf of the commission. the commission takes note of the amendments voted by parliament that it will study in detail. the commission confirms its willingness to seek a compromise with parliament and council. the commission will only consider its proposal after the two branches of the budgetary authority have adopted their positions. the commission intends to continue to pursue a constructive dialogue, in the mean time, with both institutions.
madam president, i would like to inform our group that there is a mistake in our voting lists regarding amendment 113: there should be a plus in the voting list, and not a minus.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. as regards amendments nos 61 and 103 to article 5, we believe that third-reading conciliation documents should be opened immediately after the closure of the final conciliation meeting, unlike the documents examined in the actual negotiation. documents from the first and second reading trilogues should be fully open throughout the procedure.
in writing. − the eu is a union of values and therefore has a responsibility to uphold respect for human rights within its borders. the eu therefore has a role, through its member states, in drawing attention to the vulnerable situation of the roma and in facilitating their integration into society. we have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on the social situation of roma and better access for roma to the eu labour market by kósáné kovács (a6-0038/2009). the report addresses a very serious problem and clearly points to the need for action to address the widespread exclusion of many roma today. we welcome the cooperation between member states to tackle these major problems. we want to make it clear, however, that we do not see different forms of special solutions as a way forward to reduce exclusion. special tax rates for employers employing roma women and other such measures risk rather cementing exclusion and preventing integration into the rest of society.
in writing. - the resolution contains many heartfelt appeals. but most of what is dealt with in the resolution is the political responsibility of the national parliaments to address. the resolution also calls for more resources to be allocated to the eu's globalisation adjustment fund. this means that the member states' contributions to the eu must be increased. this is at the same time as the member states need to retain their reduced financial resources for their own social and employment policies. we do not believe that the eu globalisation fund is the most effective way of supporting workers who have lost their jobs. member states are better placed to pursue an effective policy in this area. in addition, each member state spends an amount on stimulus packages in the same order as its contribution to the eu budget as a whole. we have voted against this resolution mainly because of the writing on the eu globalisation adjustment fund.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the resolution on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is, in my view, a well-balanced text and i would like to thank mr meijer for concentrating his work on the reforms and objectives that have been achieved and on the issues on which more work still needs to be done. i am particularly pleased that the resolution sends a strong signal that the present situation, after three years of waiting for the start of negotiations, is very worrying and unacceptable. it is quite clear that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a european state whose place is in the european union. when we discuss this issue in parliament, i usually avoid mentioning the name conflict between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i think there are many other issues that should be discussed in greater depth and that we never discuss because the name conflict takes up a disproportionate amount of time. but today, after reading some of the amendments, i feel the need to emphasize strongly that it is not acceptable to exploit any bilateral conflict to make it more difficult for a country to move faster towards european integration or to stop a country's participation in the international institutions. there are many countries which have had and are having bilateral conflicts, and we all want these conflicts to be resolved as quickly as possible in a way that is acceptable to both sides, but in the meantime, in my view, we should not block each other in the process of european integration, especially when it comes to countries which are in a sensitive position both geographically and politically.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to propose a deletion of one part of the text, so the new text of the second part of paragraph 13 should read: ‘in view of the new round of negotiations announced under the “nimetz process”, expresses the hope that all governments in the neighbourhood will support the integration of this country in the eu, thus contributing to the stability and prosperity of the region;’.
in writing. − this report sets out a series of requirements for member states to act to limit the harmful use of video games. schools should inform children and parents about the advantages and disadvantages of video games, parents should take measures to avoid negative effects when children play video games, member states should explore the value of introducing a 'red button' to be installed on game devices and computers to block access to certain games, national information and awareness campaigns for consumers should be carried out, internet café owners should prevent children from playing games intended for adults, a specific eu-wide code of conduct for retailers and producers of video games should be introduced and member states should introduce civil and criminal legislation on the resale of violent tv, video and computer games. video games for minors are associated with many troubling cultural and social issues. but that is precisely why countries must seek solutions that are suited to their own culture and values, so that they can be democratically anchored in their own people. the sticks from the eu institutions have almost the opposite effect. the fact that countries can pursue different paths in this area is also important in order to broaden our experience and knowledge in this area. for these reasons i voted against the final vote on this report.
in writing. - this report, outside the legislative procedure, advocates, among other things, an eu forestry policy, a dedicated eu fund to finance preventive measures in relation to climate change and an eu-funded drought observatory, among other things. we believe that the environmental responsibility for agricultural land must be borne primarily by the member states. there is no need to delegate powers to the member states in this way. as usual, we in junilistan can say that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on the eu's agricultural policy at this stage, because otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and growing subsidies to various special interests in the agricultural sector. i have voted against this report.
in writing. − as the barriers to entry in the eu have been removed, the possibility of seeking work in other eu countries has become increasingly more accessible. this is a very positive development, which gives people the opportunity to improve their own and their families' living conditions. the rapporteur admits this, but nevertheless insists on concentrating on the negative aspects of the absence of a parent seeking income abroad. i think it is unreasonable for the european parliament to direct the social and educational policies of individual member states in the clumsy way proposed. we must show respect and trust in the member states and their democratically elected assemblies to provide for their own people and their well-being. i have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. - the junilists are very positive about future enlargements of the european union. it is, however, of the utmost importance that the candidate countries de facto fulfil the requirements and thus are full democratic states of law upon accession. the copenhagen criteria must be met, the legislation we agree on must not only be implemented but also de facto upheld and the rule of law must be guaranteed. the three countries we have discussed today certainly have the potential to become member states in the future, but it is important that we do not take these requirements lightly. experience shows that progress is most rapid before accession negotiations have begun and slower during ongoing negotiations, especially if these are seen as moving towards successful conclusion.
in writing. − we favour the accession of turkey to the european union given that the country fulfils the copenhagen criteria and that accession is supported by the turkish population. we regret, however, that we were not able to vote in favour of the progress report on turkey voted today. the report unfortunately comprises both serious lacks and misdirected demands. for example, in paragraph 20 unreasonable demands are made of a democratic party. in paragraph 29, turkey is encouraged to cooperate closely with the imf, and in paragraph 31 the country is said to be obliged to conclude ftas with third countries. the report does not make sufficient reference to breaches of human rights or to the critical situation of national minorities, in particular the kurds. the armenian genocide is not mentioned at all, which differentiates this report from earlier resolutions from parliament.
in writing. water is essential for all life on earth. however, the responsibility for ensuring access to these supplies does not lie with the eu. it is through international cooperation within the framework of the united nations that the nations of the world will seek solutions to improve water resources. as the rapporteur's proposal is taking a very different direction, i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - the rapporteur's account of human suffering across southern africa is a chilling reminder of the importance of continuing and intensifying the fight against poverty. the proposals presented by the rapporteur are, however, based entirely on the eu's leading role in the member states' aid policy. we in the junilist are opposed to this. the eu shall not provide assistance or seek to influence the activities of the member states in this area. aid is an area where the experience is unfortunately quite depressing. it is therefore important that experiments with new forms can be made. our own country, sweden, is currently looking for new, interesting avenues. at this historic juncture, it is completely wrong to gradually deprive the member states of the opportunity to rethink and reform aid policy. the responsibility for aid is and will remain a matter for the member states. international cooperation to find solutions to improve healthcare in sub-saharan africa should be sought primarily within the un, not the eu. i have therefore voted against the resolution.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? i'm very happy that we can have this debate today. in these times of increased protectionism, and when poverty is spreading rather than decreasing, it is particularly important that we keep trade open between europe and some of the poorest countries in the world. that is what the interim agreements are all about. the economic partnership agreements aim to ensure continued trade and development in some of the world's poorest countries. these countries are likely to be hit hardest as the global recession unfolds and the protectionist arms race looks set to worsen. that is why i do not understand some of the criticisms that have been made. some argue that these agreements are too far-reaching and comprehensive. some critics prefer to talk about lost customs revenue rather than the potential for new trade. on the contrary, i think we should be happy that we have come this far! i am saying that there is no inherent conflict between trade and development as some speakers claim. i think it's the opposite. trade leads to development tariffs lead to poverty. i've been in charge of the interim agreement with ghana. first of all, i must admit that it has some beauty spots, such as continuing eu tariffs on rice and sugar for a transitional period, but in the end it is a very good agreement. that is why it is important that we get it signed as soon as possible. in the past, the presidential election in ghana got in the way. now i would like to call on the country's new president, john atta mills, to sign the interim agreement. i also hope that the eu will sign the agreement we have negotiated. it's unacceptable that it's taking so long. and it is particularly unacceptable that it takes so long for the translations in the council not to work well enough! i would like to take this opportunity to urge everyone to support the agreement. in these troubled times, the world needs more trade - not less!
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i and my group welcome the compromise that the council and parliament have managed to reach in this recasting of the cosmetics directive. in the negotiations with the council, nanomaterials have been the main stumbling block. so it's about using extremely small structures to make new materials that, because of the very smallness of the particles, have completely new properties or functions. for example, the material can be made tougher, firmer, thinner, water-repellent, heat-retention, etc. so far, we don't really know much about it. some makeup and lotions contain nanoparticles, and perhaps these particles can penetrate sore skin and find their way into the body where they absolutely should not be. should we then leave it unchecked as an active ingredient in cosmetics? the answer to that question, of course, is no. more knowledge and information needs to be developed on nanomaterials. that is why i am pleased with this agreement which we are going to vote on tomorrow. it's a step in the right direction. the agreement will improve the protection of eu consumers when nanomaterials are used in hair dyes, uv filters, etc. it will undergo a safety assessment before products are allowed to be placed on the market and the cosmetics industry will also have to notify the use of nanomaterials in its other products to the commission, which in turn can consult the consumer protection committee if there is a suspicion that nanomaterials pose a health risk. many thanks to the responsible rapporteur and to the commission for a good reworking!
the principle of 'one state, one vote' is one of the cornerstones of un cooperation and should remain so. we therefore find it very unfortunate that the european parliament is seeking to ensure that the eu has a single seat on the un security council in the future. it goes without saying that swedish foreign policy is different from polish, which is different from greek. but of course, like-minded countries can join together whenever they wish. however, the report contains several positive elements, particularly in terms of calls for respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. we consider these texts to be of such importance that we have decided to support the report despite other shortcomings.
the rapporteur draws an essentially accurate picture of africa's many challenges. she is also unquestionably right in describing the importance of both international action and international cooperation in addressing poverty, the lack of health care and the potential consequences of the global economic downturn. the rapporteur, however, is strongly in favour of giving the european parliament a greater role in relations between africa and the eu. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the african continent. the rapporteur also calls for the european parliament to be given greater responsibility for the design and operation of the european development fund. we consider that such a development would be extremely unfortunate. we have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. - we social democrats believe that it is important to promote both art and culture in the eu. we therefore want to see an increased exchange of experience and cooperation between member states in this area. this is particularly important to facilitate the study of students in artistic education in another member state. however, we do not believe that the content of art education in the member states should be determined at eu level. such decisions should be taken by the member states themselves. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - junilista believes that cultural issues should be the political responsibility of the member states. this report is outside the legislative procedure and is nothing more than a suggestion by the federalist majority of the european parliament that the eu should intervene even more in the cultural field. we have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. - it is important that artists have the possibility to move freely, that the opportunities for non-commercial art are promoted, that the development of european digital libraries to preserve the art world goes further, etc. i interpret paragraph 9 on the nature and duration of art studies as a desire to include art studies in the bologna process and, subject to that, i can vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - this report is outside the legislative procedure and is nothing but an opinion of the federalist majority in the european parliament. the proposal argues for the completion of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty. but we believe that the lisbon treaty has failed twice. the last time the people of ireland voted against the lisbon treaty was in 2008, but before that, the voters of france and the netherlands voted against essentially the same proposal in 2005. when will the federalist majority in the european parliament realise that the ambition to create a united states of europe lacks the support of the electorate? in fact, in recital b of the draft report, it is stated: "people with a lack of knowledge of eu policies and the treaties tend to be more opposed to them". this shows the federalists' indifference, arrogance and ignorance towards voters with different political values from those prevailing in this centralised european parliament. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the hegyi report concerning the promotion of a dialogue with eu citizens is based on the assumption that people’s sceptical attitude towards the eu is due to the fact that they lack adequate knowledge. various measures are proposed in the report such as education, euronews and the creation of a museum of eu history. since the actions far more resemble propaganda than dialogue i oppose them. in a real dialogue, the opinions of the citizens are seen as valuable.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report by mr wojciech roszkowski because we agree with the overall objectives of rural development and diversification of activities to promote local development potential. however, there are points in the report with which we disagree, both from a factual point of view and from the way in which certain points have been formulated. we do not agree, for example, that the funds for the other pillars of the agricultural policy have been significantly reduced. and although there are important environmental and regional policy reasons, we do not believe that any agricultural production should be maintained by means of aid 'at any cost'. we also believe that there are writings which anticipate the rural population's own choices. we have, however, chosen to interpret these points as unfortunate formulations of good intentions such as the prevention of desertification.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to harmonise tobacco taxes in the eu in order to curb the significant crossborder trade in tobacco which risks undermining public health policy objectives in the member states. the proposal presented by the rapporteur from the committee on economic and monetary affairs was a significant weakening of the commission's original text. as leader of the liberal group, i did my utmost to improve the report. the issue of tobacco taxes is very difficult to resolve because of the wide disparities in tax rates and views on the harmful effects of tobacco within the eu. there's been a lot of division in the various factions, including my own. despite my efforts, i finally felt that parliament's proposal did not go far enough. i therefore chose to abstain in the final vote on the new tobacco taxes.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on combating female genital mutilation in the eu by christina muscardini (a6-0054/2009). the report raises a very serious problem and clearly points to the need for action to deal with it. the report also makes various proposals on how this should be done. we welcome the cooperation between member states to tackle this problem. however, we would like to stress that regular preventive health checks on girls and women granted asylum in the eu because of the risk of female genital mutilation are a matter for each member state to deal with with respect for the rights of the individual.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'general' in the definition of the term 'general'. we have chosen not to support the alternative resolution put forward by our group in this parliament, which also won a majority in the end. the reason for this is that we believe that the original report was better. the alternative resolution contained a letter on the requirement of regular medical examinations of women granted asylum due to threats of female genital mutilation. the purpose of this letter is to prevent genital mutilation from occurring within the eu. however, we believe that this measure is an invasion of privacy and goes too far and puts an unacceptable burden on young women who are already vulnerable. a visit to the doctor should be voluntary. that is why we have decided not to support the alternative resolution.
in writing. - female genital mutilation is a cruel and inhumane practice and has no place in modern society. as junilista sees the eu not only as a cooperation for the benefit of increased growth and trade, but also as a forum for upholding common basic human values, we have chosen to vote in favour of the report. we are, however, completely opposed to several of the far-reaching texts dealing with the criminal law of the member states. legislation aimed at maintaining the functioning of society should be initiated and decided by national parliaments elected by the people, not by the european parliament.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this report raises a very serious problem and clearly states the need for action to deal with it. i welcome cooperation between member states in this area. i have nevertheless voted against because i believe that all health care should be voluntary. i am opposed to regular preventive health checks on girls and women granted asylum because of the risk of genital mutilation, as i consider this to be an invasion of privacy and discriminatory.
in writing. − female genital mutilation is a practice that must be condemned by the member states. it constitutes a violation of women's fundamental rights, particularly the right to personal integrity, and of sexual and reproductive rights. however, there are aspects of the muscardini report that i do not fully support such as the formulations regarding questioning the credibility of parents who request asylum on the grounds that they have refused to consent to their child undergoing female genital mutilation. i see no reason to throw particular suspicion on people who request asylum on these specific grounds. another formulation in the report which i do not support is the one proposing regular medical examinations on women and girls who are granted asylum because of the threat of female genital mutilation in their home country. i consider the practice to be discriminatory against these women and girls. if a person is granted with asylum in a member state she should have the same rights and obligations as other citizens in the country.
in writing. - the original own-initiative report on female genital mutilation was very good, but the revised version which won the vote contained a letter in which the authors wanted to introduce regular medical examinations for women granted asylum because of the risk of female genital mutilation. the aim would be to prevent genital mutilation from occurring in the host eu country. i find forced medical checks to be extremely intrusive. a doctor visit has to be voluntary. forced labour is totally unacceptable in this context. that is why i voted against the recast version.
in writing. - junilista believes that cultural issues should be the political responsibility of the member states. the report is outside the legislative procedure and is nothing more than a suggestion by the federalist majority of the european parliament that the eu should intervene even more in the cultural field. as usual, the european parliament's committee on culture and education wants to make a dent in the new costly programmes and bodies at eu level. we in junilist do not believe that a multiannual programme or a community body for linguistic diversity and language learning at eu level will bring any change to the eu's population of some 500 million, other than adding to the burden on taxpayers. nor do we think that the commission's plans for information and awareness campaigns on the benefits of language learning will affect reality. it is up to the member states to motivate their citizens to learn languages in their education policies. this is not a matter for the eu. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the rapporteur states in his report that cohesion policy is one of the most successful eu initiatives. this is a startling conclusion, not least because as recently as november 2008 the european court of auditors found that 11 per cent of the 42 billion euros approved in 2007 under eu cohesion policy should never have been paid. the rapporteur seems to be fully aware of this and in paragraph 17 he urges those taking part in the debate on territorial cohesion to avoid all reference to budgetary and financial implications of the proposed policy. the lid on, in other words. the eu's cohesion policy is ill-conceived. from a socioeconomic perspective, where consideration of taxpayers' money is a must, it is nothing but a complete failure. the junilists have of course voted against the report as a whole.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as always with our budget, this is a conscientious and competent piece of work, but unfortunately it is politically backward. as a previous speaker here said, this is not a budget for the 21st century. the starting point is obviously that eu spending will grow and grow forever. we have to put an end to this sometime! i shall briefly point out three aspects. it says that if gnp falls, as it will now, the eu budget will not be affected. that's no way to run this business. it is better to spend money in countries when they see their economy go down and collapse the way it is now. it proposes more money for new areas of activity based on the lisbon treaty. this is an arrogance against the democratic rules of the game. that treaty is rejected. at the same time, no cuts are proposed. but there is a lot of money to be saved in agriculture, the structural funds, ecosoc, the committee of the regions and so on. do it now!
mr president, i would like to thank you. as the socialist group's shadow rapporteur on this matter, i would like to thank mr reimer böge for his positive spirit of cooperation. a long-term framework is important, but a seven-year lock-in with rigid budgetary ceilings, both overall and sectoral, is an unreasonable model in today's rapidly changing world. the current long-term budget, which runs until 2014, was in practice established in 2005. what would we know about the current economic crisis, the situation in kosovo or gaza, the depth of the climate crisis or the violent fluctuations in food prices? no, that won't hold! my conclusion is that we must have a comprehensive review of the current long-term budget, the multiannual financial framework. this is of course particularly true if the committee on budgets' proposal is implemented, i.e. the extension of the current financial framework by two years, as proposed, to bring it into better coordination with the commission and parliament's terms of office. what do we want? well, a lot of things. first, the ambitions of the budget review itself. we believe that it is not acceptable to focus only on the future financial framework. the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments which require the commission to submit as soon as possible a proposal for a substantive revision of the current long-term budget. especially if our demand for an extension were to be granted. we also call on the swedish presidency this autumn to manage such a proposal from the commission actively and expeditiously. we need to get to the gun range. secondly, as regards the political orientation, we have received clear signals from the broad open consultation carried out by the commission. these are some of the areas in particular where the eu must become more powerful. it is climate policy, it is jobs and growth, it is foreign and development policy. the eu's ability to play a leading global role in these areas requires resources. it's obvious. today, all these areas are clearly underfunded. thirdly, a number of necessary technical changes are needed. i do not need to go into this in more detail, because reimer böge has already mentioned it. we want five years instead of seven and a rearrangement of the period so that the new parliament and the new commission can have a real say in the framework that will apply during their term. fourthly, a revised and fairer system for the eu's own resources. what is needed now is a rapid proposal and a substantial mid-term review of the current long-term budget that brings rhetoric and resources closer together and that starts the process towards a more sustainable long-term orientation of the eu budget for the next long-term budgetary period.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the problems of the european automotive industry are largely the result of the economic and financial crisis. in that respect, it is hopefully a problem that will be temporary. but there is another very important part, which is also a problem of overcapacity. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we ensure that the future of the european automotive industry is based on realistic and sound business plans and responsible ownership. this leads me to say that if we are to succeed in maintaining a successful automobile industry in europe, with the opportunities it offers for technological development and good employment and the role it plays in the european economy, the state aids currently granted by the member states must be designed to ensure survival in the recession and financial crisis, but not to distort competition between member states or between car manufacturers. state aid that distorts competition and creates distrust between member states is in fact putting the survival of the european automobile industry at risk, and it is in this context that i would like to put the question of what has now happened in slovenia and in france, and the state aid that has been distributed in france. one of the commission's main tasks is to ensure that the rules laid down are not breached, to follow up on what has happened and to create full confidence that no state aid is being granted to the detriment of any other member state or any other car industry. aid that distorts competition undermines the future of the european automotive industry and has negative effects on both employment and technological development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what we're experiencing now is both a financial crisis and a climate crisis. we can note that there are car companies that handle these double crises better. there are car brands and models that are better able to cope with these crises, namely those that have invested in sustainable technological development. then there are companies like general motors that are demanding $350 billion from the states in which they operate. we shouldn't waste good money on bad. we're going to support the people who are in the auto industry. we will support the regions that are in difficulty, we will support the small businesses that are in the supply chain, but we will make sure that we do so with products for the market of the future. the commission can do more by opening up the structural funds, both the social fund, the regional funds and the agricultural fund, to biofuels, social measures and the regions. i also believe that the european parliament's activities in strasbourg should be discontinued.
for the pse group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the commission very much for this proposal. i would also like to thank kartika liotard for a very good report which has greatly strengthened the areas which i consider particularly important, the public health aspects and consumer protection, compared to the commission's proposal. i also recognize many of the issues we have worked on together in the past in the area of food additives. it is a question of nanoparticles and nanomaterials. they are dealt with very well in the rapporteur's proposal, but also in an amendment by hiltrud breyer, whom i know from her work on the cosmetics directive. we put forward there the same proposals that have now been adopted in that directive, and which should of course also be included here. it is therefore a matter of labelling nanomaterials, that the contents must always be visible to the consumer so that he can also opt out of foods containing nanoparticles or nanomaterials. another aspect that i recognize and welcome is that we should be able to take into account the impact of food on the environment. it's a very important issue that's growing in importance. it also has ethical aspects, for example in relation to cloning, which have now been addressed in a good and clear way in the report. it is not a question of the impact on the consumer of eating cloned meat, but above all of the ethical aspects that we really have to take into account when we decide on such legislation. i would also like to say that i agree with the rapporteur that approval must also be required for nanomaterials in packaging that come into contact with food. the socialist group thinks that the rapporteur's proposals are very good. we will also support some of the amendments. we hope that we can reach an agreement with the commission quite soon anyway.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a question that concerns a large proportion of eu citizens today. it is the increase in unemployment and the widening gaps it creates. they must have been extremely disappointed with the results of the last summit. at this summit no strategy was adopted to deal with the rising unemployment. you say you've already done what needs to be done. in addition, it is said that the summit which was to have taken place at the beginning of may is no longer a summit. now it's a troika meeting with the troops. it is a clear signal to the citizens that the eu leaders are not putting employment and the fight against unemployment first. the european parliament is not involved at all - one month before the european parliament elections! josé manuel barroso has called for deliberations today, but the council conclusions do not even mention the european parliament. i want to say a few words about automatic stabilisers. gm, the usa and sweden have been mentioned in this debate. it is true that in sweden we have a better social security system, but the compensation rates have fallen from 80 per cent. a car worker who loses his job today receives compensation of somewhere between 50 and 60 percent of his salary. so, it's not that great anymore. finally, a word on mobility: mobility is important in the eu, as is the fight against protectionism. but the commission and the council must take their responsibility and ensure that equal pay for equal work applies throughout the eu. we can then also work for greater mobility and against protectionism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. almost 20 years ago, the berlin wall fell. in the present difficult economic situation, the construction of a new wall in europe has once again been seen, this time an economic one. this cannot happen! although extra funds have been allocated to help countries in difficulty, the commitment of eu leaders is mixed. it is worrying that renault is moving its production from slovenia to france. we must not allow the spectre of protectionism to reign in our midst. the price of our failure to keep europe together once again is far too high. history will punish those who fail to live up to their responsibilities. that's why it was so good to hear gordon brown's clear message yesterday: "we will not walk away!" this must also apply to president nicolas sarkozy. there is every reason to welcome the de larosière group's proposal. it is a balanced proposal, which means that the eu avoids over-regulation, but that the supervision of financial markets is substantially strengthened. the ecb is playing an increasingly important role. the national regulatory authorities will also be given greater opportunities for coordination and exchange of information. even in times of crisis, policy must be reasonable. proposing regulations that are more stifling than helpful cannot be our answer in difficult times.
in writing. the report stresses that an integrated system will improve safety and efficiency in the use of airspace, and thus reduce queuing times. at the same time, the system is based on a constant increase in air transport, but i am voting for the report nonetheless, because the positive outweighs the negative. we in the green group will take strong action against air transport in other ways, including proposing different environmental and transport charges.
in writing. − we voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 financial framework, as it clearly calls for more transparency and a clearer link between priorities and outcomes. unlike the report, we think that the 1% model is a good one. we believe that budgetary restraint is of the utmost importance.
in writing. - we believe that our main contribution to promoting continued development in the world's poorest countries is to open up eu markets to imports from these parts of the world. assistance, when deemed compatible with the ambition to increase free trade, should be initiated and decided by individual member states, not by the eu. if the eu still insists on distributing and directing aid, the trade of the beneficiary countries must not be subject to any conditions. however, provisions designed to protect sensitive industries in developing countries during a transitional period may be acceptable. in principle, however, protectionist provisions which risk undermining free access to the market should be avoided. these views have guided us in our position on the motions for resolutions on the trade agreements which the commission is now preparing. we oppose the unfortunate writings which are intended solely to increase the influence of the european parliament in trade policy. we have nevertheless chosen to vote in favour of all the resolutions, because each one highlights the importance of continuing free trade at a time when the severe winds of protectionism are gathering strength.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking stavros lambrinidis and all the other members of the libe committee for making this report so well thought out. i would also like to thank you for the support you have given to my amendments. this means support for the strengthening of the rights of users and consumers. the section on what the technology can be used for is of great importance, such as monitoring internet traffic. it is good that the european parliament is now forcefully saying that privacy and civil human rights come first. the report clarifies that monitoring of internet traffic may only take place in the event of criminal suspicion and as part of legal proceedings following court decisions. it's going to be a very important foundation for the civil rights movement. the report comes at the last minute for necessary measures. i am surprised at the amendments tabled by conservative and liberal members. their proposals weaken the rights and integrity of citizens. nor have they critically examined what technological progress may bring if we are not observant. of course, we must fight against crimes on the internet, crimes such as the exploitation of children and young people. the central issues in this context, however, are that the swedish mother government has decided on the so-called fra law, a law that deals with the examination of people who have not committed a crime or are criminals, instead of the people to examine us. the report is a scathing criticism of the swedish moderate government which, in spite of all criticism, has introduced this fra law in sweden. in sweden, authorities are now allowed to monitor internet traffic without suspicion of crime or danger to the security of the individual or society. after the decision tomorrow, i assume that the swedish government will reconsider and make sure to change the law. otherwise, you are going against the european parliament and the elected representatives of the 27 eu countries.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to stavros lambrinidis for having succeeded in both respecting the security of the internet and at the same time protecting and respecting the invaluable fundamental rights. i assume that the protection of our fundamental rights in accordance with this report will also be supported when we decide on the telecoms package. there are clear links between this report and the telecommunications package. i hope that we will also agree that it is important to protect civil and political rights. the internet has, as several colleagues have said, greatly increased the possibilities for freedom of expression. citizens who do not normally have access to the mainstream media's debate pages can use the internet to generate opinions and raise questions. it is a new arena for the exchange of views that we so badly need for political mobilisation. it means more scrutiny of decision-makers by citizens. the important thing is that citizens themselves have the opportunity to scrutinise legislators and other authorities. it has meant increased knowledge. above all, we have also had opportunities for exchanges and contacts between people from different cultures and different parts of the world. in discussing this issue it is also important that we ensure that we have real freedom of expression, and guarantees against censorship and control of, for example, opinions, information and opinion-forming. the fundamental human rights of freedom of expression and privacy are important democratic elements and must always be both protected and respected. the internet is therefore an important factor in our democratic society today and should remain so. i therefore want us to vote against amendment no 5 which would remove the following text: 'guarantee that the expression of controversial political views via the internet is not criminalised'. if this amendment were to pass, it would be a democratic setback. who decides what's controversial political views? it is a democratic right to express different political views. the right of internet users to permanently delete personal data contained on websites is also important. of course, cybercrime must be tackled, as all criminal activities, but it must also be done in a legally secure way, in accordance with criminal law, as in other cases of crime. cybercrime against children is particularly serious. here we follow the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. there are other groups that have been affected as well. i am thinking particularly of women who have been victims of the sex slave trade. the sex industry today uses the internet and the sexual violence that many women and children are subjected to. in this context, i would remind my colleagues that they can support a written declaration to put an end to this violence, written declaration no 94. i would like to conclude by also mentioning the danger we have seen in the so-called war on terrorism. this has sometimes led governments to impose unreasonable restrictions on freedom of speech and privacy. these restrictions have created a security risk for citizens. the security services of various countries have traded personal data obtained through internet surveillance. for example, when people have been forced to flee their country because of political oppression, their lives have been put in danger. i call for a very strong support for the report tomorrow!
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am daily fascinated by the amazing tool that the internet is, but the internet, much as the eu opposes it, is a global network of computers, not a european one. to think that a decree from brussels or strasbourg could change that is quite incredible and very out of touch with the world. it can be argued that the eu is the wrong forum to solve the kind of problems highlighted in the report. let me give you a couple of examples. the report equates the right to the internet with the right to schooling. it is quite powerful when we know that the right or the opportunity to go to school is not a given in many eu countries. the protection and promotion of individuals' rights online and the balance that should exist between privacy and security are of paramount importance, but neither should be solved at eu level. it is an international problem which should be dealt with internationally in the first instance. another issue that is close to my heart is file sharing. it calls for the application of common criminal measures to protect intellectual property rights. i firmly believe that it is for the member states to decide what constitutes a criminal offence and what penalties may be imposed. it is totally unacceptable for the eu to go along with the music and film industries. especially considering they're trying to criminalize an entire generation. in conclusion, i would say that attempting to legislate at all in these areas is difficult because technology is much, much faster than policy.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the single market is the eu's absolute greatest contribution to freedom and prosperity in europe. it requires, among other things, effective antitrust legislation. what we are now considering is the question of damages for breaches of antitrust law. there are good reasons of principle for citizens and businesses to be able to claim damages. the report by mr lehne, in part unintentionally, highlights the problems and risks. the white paper talks about a european legal culture, but there is no such thing. we are not going to create regulations based on wishful thinking. the rapporteur believes that we are avoiding an americanization of the culture of damages. it's also wishful thinking. on the contrary, the risks are great. the division of responsibilities between the eu institutions and the member states is ignored. there is no objective and conditional analysis of what the subsidiarity principle says. the principle is simply not taken seriously. there are also many other ambiguities and risks of arbitrariness. the combined effects of paragraphs 7 and 11 raise concerns. the obvious starting point must be an action for damages for breach of antitrust law. it requires that the crime be established in a court of law. the court of first instance held that the court of first instance had not been entitled to rule on the question whether the contested decision was vitiated by an error of law. the combined provisions of paragraphs 15 and 18 allow the plaintiff to choose the most favourable legal system. it creates legal uncertainty and it leads to this kind of "form shopping" that becomes a real threat. the aim is to reduce information asymmetry by forcing companies to disclose information to the claimant, which results in a subjective handling of important business information that can be misused. there are far too many uncertainties and risks at this stage. the house should therefore reject this report and ask for a more thorough examination of the matter before we take a decision.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank mr klaus-heiner lehne for a good and well-worked report which addresses important issues in competition law and provides for stronger consumer protection. the ecj grants individuals and companies the right to compensation for infringements of competition rules, but in practice, those who have suffered damage as a result of infringements of ec antitrust rules have rarely been compensated. we must therefore create mechanisms that increase trust and make it easier for people to assert their rights across borders. we know that consumers and small businesses are afraid to initiate proceedings because of concerns about lengthy procedures and, above all, high costs. changes in this direction will promote crossborder trade. if we are to have a functioning internal market throughout the eu, where people can rely on having their case tried in a fair way and receive full compensation for the damage, the loss, that has been caused, then we must also find new mechanisms to facilitate class action. when we talk about group cases, the united states always comes up and the american experience and excesses. we must of course learn from this, but we must not be intimidated. europe should have a european system, not an american one. if we do nothing, the situation will only get worse.
in writing. - we believe that the original purpose of the programme, to distribute intervention stocks to the most deprived, was oddly constructed from the outset. the mixing of agricultural policy with social policy can be heartbreaking, but it becomes complicated. the proportion of goods not coming from intervention stocks has steadily increased in recent years. at last count, about 85 percent of the food was bought on the open market! we believe that the distribution of food to the most deprived in the community should be abolished. the situation of the most deprived in the member states is to be handled by the member states or the municipalities. it is these political levels of responsibility who, through their social policy, are to ensure that all citizens have their right to a minimum standard of living. whether this is done through social assistance, food distribution or otherwise is to be decided by them. the committee on agriculture proposes that food aid be fully financed by the eu. it is astonishing what positions are being put forward in this committee just to get agricultural products on the market. as usual, we in junilistan can say that it is fortunate that the european parliament is not involved in the decision-making process on the eu's agricultural policy, because otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to various groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - this report stresses the importance of workers being aware of their rights and having a good knowledge of labour law and collective agreements. the rapporteur also notes that the secondment directive must be respected and stresses the value of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. all these are desirable requirements. however, some of the report's lines go too far. we cannot support the calls for the introduction at eu level of a community legal act covering wages, social security contributions, taxes and compensation for accidents at work. these questions are too important for us to support this kind of writing and demands. we have chosen to say yes to the alternative resolution put forward by the pse, alde and the greens, as it limits the wording of the community act. in the final vote on the report as a whole, we shall abstain, since parts of the text are positive, while the wording of the community act is too far-reaching.
in writing. − as usual, this opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development contains proposals which increase the costs to the eu budget. we do not agree with the main points of the report, which deplores, among other things, the progressive deregulation of community intervention on the agricultural market. we are also not in favour of the committee's proposal on 'market management measures'. the european parliament's committee on agriculture also needs to be reminded that the price picture differs in different member states. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european database for citizens containing reference prices for products and inputs, as well as information on energy costs, wages, rents, fees and taxes for the whole of europe. the conditions for comparisons between member states simply do not exist for a variety of reasons. we also find the proposal for a specific label for eu agricultural products strange. what is the underlying motive? trying to encourage protectionism? as usual, we in junilistan can say that it is fortunate that the european parliament is not involved in the decision-making process on the eu's agricultural policy, because otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to various groups in the agricultural sector. we have voted against this report on food prices in europe.
in writing. - we understand that there can be major problems in the construction sector in spain and that there can be cases where unsuspecting citizens buy real estate in good faith, which it later turns out that construction companies did not have the legal right to build. however, these are problems which can and should be solved within the legal framework of the member state. when all domestic remedies have been exhausted, in accordance with article 35 of the echr, individual citizens may apply to the european court of human rights in strasbourg. there is no reason to introduce any legislation at eu level to deal with these issues or for the european parliament as an institution to intervene. nor do we want to get involved in the various alternative motions for resolutions tabled by spanish members, where domestic political complications are mixed up in the matter.
in writing. − we voted in favour of the report in sympathy with the complainants. however, we are of the opinion that the alleged breaches of spanish, eu and international law should be dealt with and solved by the relevant spanish authorities, the european court of justice and the european court of human rights.
in writing. - freedom of expression and the right to privacy are absolute rights which must not be undermined under any circumstances. we believe, of course, that these rights also apply to the internet and thus guarantee the right of individuals to express themselves freely. we also believe that the possibility of removing individual information from databases and websites should be taken for granted and call on companies to ensure that individuals can have their personal data deleted from databases. however, we believe that the lack of such a guarantee is primarily an international problem, which is therefore best solved through international rules and conventions. junilista is very positive about the guarantee of security and fundamental freedoms on the internet, but we are negative about some of the points in the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. we are strongly opposed to this, because we do not want european criminal law to be harmonized! the rapporteur also calls for the right to the internet to be equated with the right to education. we think this is a powerful statement, since the right and the opportunity to go to school in many eu countries is far from a given. however, the report's good intentions prevail and we have therefore voted in favour.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i have participated in a number of meetings in the arctic region focusing very much on climate change. normally the first day in such meetings is devoted to the serious effects for the region, its wildlife, the livelihood of its people etc. because of global warming. the second day is very often devoted to the opportunities in terms of geological exploitation. something of a contradiction. i would submit that rapid exploitation of geological resources would, of course, entail very serious risks. i agree that you cannot draw an exact parallel between the arctic and antarctica – i agree with the commissioner there. at the same time, since we do not have a careful, sustainable environment framework in place for the kind of activities that are now being explored by the nations in this region, i think this resolution sends a very important signal: be careful. the fact that all political groups are behind it, i think, is significant. we list three alternative ways forward: one in the form of an international treaty, with, of course, special provisions for this region compared to antarctica. second, a moratorium, pending new scientific research and a better understanding of the region and its vulnerability or sensitivity, but also pending the results of many energy alternatives that are now very progressively developing. maybe in the future we will not need those fossil reserves at all. so i think that, even if colleagues in this parliament may differ on the margin about the most responsible way forward, i think it is very significant that we are all behind this resolution. i want to stress that we want to go beyond just enhanced multilateral cooperation and dialogue; we want to ensure that the safety of the environment and the livelihoods of the people are protected.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking kathalijne, emine, michel cashman and others for a very good report. i am surprised and shocked, as are many others, that the leader of the ppe-de and the ppe-de spokesman, manfred weber, in amendment no 81 has proposed that the european parliament should reject the proposal for a directive on the grounds that it violates the principle of subsidiarity and would involve a disproportionate amount of bureaucracy, as i read in the swedish translation. commissioner špidla has commented on this. i am sure that all disabled women, and all other groups who have counted on the european parliament to ensure the civil human rights of their group as well, are deeply disappointed that the leadership of the conservative group equates human rights with bureaucracy. i therefore call on the whole house to vote against ppe-de amendment no 81 tomorrow. i also think it is important that women should not continue to be discriminated against by insurance companies precisely because they are women and older, but are healthy and live longer than men as a group. i also hope that parliament will have the courage to make it clear that tax-funded education is for everyone. religion is certainly important to many europeans, and i respect that, but we live in a secularised society. no, manfred weber, your market freedom of contract is not as important as basic civil human rights. ask the citizens of the eu, they are wiser and more modern than you in the epp-ed. the expectations are high and i hope that everyone will have the courage to vote for this tomorrow and not against it as you have advocated.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we have been waiting quite a long time for the commission’s plan on sustainable production and consumption. we received the proposal a few months ago. although it is comprehensive, unfortunately i have to say that the overall content is rather limited and poor. having read some of the early drafts of the commission proposals, i know that, in the environment dg in particular, there were much more ambitious plans to start with. so it is obvious that work on these issues has to continue and be more in-depth in the future. today we are discussing the ecolabel scheme. the revision offers a good opportunity for this label to move away from the margins of the market, to capture a much larger share of the market and to help push demand for eco-friendly products. the new rules represent a significant improvement. they are more dynamic, will apply a life-cycle approach and should be able to attract significantly more attention and interest among both companies and consumers. as mr dimas said, they will be able to help consolidate eco-labelling and do away with a number of voluntary schemes that are very often confusing to consumers. however, we still have a problem, namely how to inform consumers and the markets about the label. marketing support for this label has been very limited in the past. the resources allocated have been minuscule compared to the resources behind a lot of branding in the market in general. i hope this will change, first of all by businesses seeing the ecolabel as an important instrument in the future. i also hope, as mr vakalis said, that public procurement will in the future expand in green areas and use the ecolabel as a platform. i also hope that the commission will be more proactive in its support for the scheme. i thank all those who have been involved in the work. i think we have done quite a good job in a few weeks. we managed to clear up some of the confusion around food products, in particular fishery products, in the final hours. finally, i would like to refer back to ms mcavan, who made a reference to the financial crisis and the meeting in london today. i think that reference is very relevant. we are facing at least three parallel crises today – the financial crisis, the climate crisis and what i would call the ecosystem crisis, or overuse of natural resources. it is only by tackling the root causes together – that is to say, unsustainable use of resources – through investing in low-carbon and eco-friendly production and products, that we will be able to build a better future. i think this ecolabel scheme is one of many instruments that can help us to do that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the voluntary environmental management scheme emas basically involves a company or organisation conducting an environmental inquiry, looking at the environmental impact of its activities, developing an environmental policy, setting objectives and developing action programmes. unfortunately, emas has not been so successful so far, with only 4 200 organisations having registered since its inception in 1993, which is low compared to the 35 000 organisations in the eu that have registered for iso 14001. a revision of emas is therefore justified simply to make it more attractive and less bureaucratic for companies and organisations. the negotiations between the council and parliament have included several tightening of the emu. for example, the commission will produce comprehensive reference documents for as many sectors as possible under a priority programme. the text also clearly states that the emas logo may not be confused with other product-related eco-labels under any circumstances. this is a clear improvement. a while ago my colleague, mr jens holm, asked the commission whether all the commission's directorates-general are affiliated to emas, which the european parliament is. one might think that the eu institutions should set a good example. but the answer was that the commission has no internal emission target of its own and that only five of the commission dgs have joined emas. i think that is above all criticism, and i would therefore like to repeat the question to the commission: when will the commission ensure that all its directorates-general join ema?
in writing. 'the content and organisation of education and training are a matter for national competence.' this is stated in one of the first paragraphs of mr takkula's own-initiative report on 'education for the children of migrants'. but it is not long before there is talk of what should be included in the curriculum, what teacher training should look like or that member states "must get immigrants involved in a wide range of leisure activities". while it is important to ensure that all children, including those of migrants, receive the best possible education, i wonder whether this really belongs at eu level? the answer is found in the above paragraph. i am voting for a narrower but more rigorous eu. i therefore voted against the own-initiative report, although i think it touches on a very important subject which we must look at more closely at national level.
in writing. - we would point out once again that in the current eu cooperation it is established that the member states have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education. the draft statement contains a number of good ideas, but with all due respect to the substance of the matter, we believe that this report is outside the competence of the european union. the principle of subsidiarity says that this should be handled by the member states themselves. it follows from this principle that the european parliament's committee on culture and education should be abolished, since it deals with matters outside the sphere of eu cooperation. for these reasons we have voted against the report.
in writing. − we fully support the notions of anti-discrimination and equality in access, and strongly believe in creating inclusive school systems and inclusive schools. we believe that actions should be taken to assist all vulnerable pupils. however, we believe that member states are best suited for ensuring accessible and inclusive schooling for its citizens and residents alike. we believe that democratic control of the school system by the people it serves can only be ensured if the member states formulate and implement education policy.
in writing. the junilist is a supporter of the free internal market, which not only brings economic prosperity but also extends the freedom of citizens by allowing them to move freely between countries within europe's borders. we share the rapporteur's view that the lack of transposition of the directive in question in some member states is, on balance, disappointing and call on the member states to fully implement directive 2004/38/ec, so that the right to free movement becomes a reality. however, we are strongly opposed to increasing the funds and allocating them to a specific budget line to support national and local projects aimed at integrating citizens and their family members when they are staying in another member state. such matters are the responsibility of each member state. however, the report's clear position on the completion of the free internal market is overlooked and we have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we share the overall idea of the report of improved citizenship of the union and improved free movement. however, we do not believe that the solution to the problems raised lies in further information campaigns. we also want to emphasize that the question of voting rights in local elections is a matter for the member states.
in writing. - we need to strengthen union citizenship, as it is the cornerstone of free movement. this report addresses a number of areas where people's opportunities to benefit from the eu's free movement can be improved. since the idea of cooperation is based on the dismantling of borders and greater mobility, i chose to support this report despite the fact that there was less good writing on the promotion of 'european identity' and the establishment of a 'european dimension' in schools.
in writing. - the rapporteur's praise of eu cohesion policy seems to know no bounds. this is despite the fact that this policy is a frightening example of what increased central governance means. lack of control and poor follow-up of the funds allocated each year under eu funds projects leads to significant amounts of money going to the wrong pockets. this is now common knowledge. as recently as november 2008, the european court of auditors found that 11 per cent of the 42 billion euros approved in 2007 under eu cohesion policy should never have been paid. however, this is not mentioned in the report. it's unfortunate, but hardly surprising. we have, of course, voted against the report.
in writing. - junilista believes that the eu is a union of values and therefore i am a strong advocate of a broad anti-discrimination directive. i consider that to be a matter of course for the functioning of the internal market and for the respect of inviolable human rights. it's very important to me that no one is discriminated against because of a disability. i support amendment no 87 because i believe that the taxpayers in each country should ensure that disabled people have the financial means to be considered full-fledged borrowers on the credit market. i also voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution by the five largest groups contains many important views on european history over the last hundred years; the additional proposals from the uen group, among others, are also commendable, but for editorial reasons not all of the proposals fit into the text of the resolution. there are many tragedies and individual heroism that could be described in a resolution on the european conscience and totalitarian dictatorships. but unfortunately there is not enough room for everything and we have therefore been forced to vote against some of the amendments to the resolution. we have, however, voted in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. − we of course regret the victims of all aggressive and authoritarian regimes, regardless of the atrocities that have been carried out in europe or for example in the former european colonies. we are however deeply concerned about all direct or indirect efforts by politicians or parliaments trying to influence the general perception of historical facts. this task should be left to independent academic research and public debate. otherwise there is a risk that every new majority in parliament will try to change history by describing the worst enemies of society, and that the discussion on european history will be used for short-term campaign purposes. we therefore chose to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - cultural matters are a policy area which falls within the political responsibility of the member states to decide on. this resolution deals with matters which are outside the competence of the european union. we who take the principle of subsidiarity seriously therefore believe that the european parliament's committee on culture and education should be abolished. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the schmitt own-initiative report on better schools: an agenda for european cooperation (a6-0124/2009). the report highlights many of the major challenges facing european schools and makes a number of good recommendations. for example, to better prepare students in schools and universities for an increasingly flexible labour market where employers' requirements are changing rapidly. however, we are referring to a single paragraph in the report which attributes the increase in violence in schools to factors such as the increase in class differences and the increasing cultural diversity across the eu member states. the increase in school violence is a serious social problem with many and complex causes that should not be reduced by simplistic descriptions of causes.
in writing. − "the member states are responsible for the organisation, content and reform of education and training". this is stated in the first paragraph of the schmitt own-initiative report on 'better schools'. that's as far as i go. the eu shall facilitate exchanges between schools and the mobility of students. the eu, on the other hand, should stay away from anything else that concerns schools. unfortunately, the schmitt resolution fails to live up to its initial promise. it is quite immediate that the question of how schools are to be financed, evaluated and what should be in the curriculum, etc., is being raised. the very things that the eu should not be doing; the very things that the member states themselves should be doing. i am voting for a narrower but more rigorous eu. i therefore voted against both the own-initiative report and the alternative resolution.
in writing. - the draft statement contains a number of good ideas, but school matters are a policy area which falls within the political responsibility of the member states to decide on. this resolution therefore deals with matters which are outside the competence of the european union. we who take the principle of subsidiarity seriously therefore believe that parliament should vote against the report and that the european parliament's committee on culture and education should be dissolved. we have of course voted against the report ourselves.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that we should of course take a decision on this matter during this part-session. there are many reasons for this. firstly, it is a proposal which parliament has dealt with before, which is now being reviewed, and which has been discussed in the council since 2003. now the time is ripe to finally make a decision. as regards the legal situation, the group of experts to which mr frassoni refers has given its opinion on this proposal. adjustments have since been made. the dividing line between the absolute majority in the committee on industry and the representatives of the green group is whether this is a new proposal or whether it is a proposal we have been working on since 2003. i think everyone else agrees that this is a proposal we have been working on for a long time. at some point, decisions must be made, not least because it is now the case that a wide range of countries are planning to build nuclear power. i think it is extremely important then that we have a stable and strong regulatory framework in place for the european union. i therefore propose that we vote today in favour of voting this week on the nuclear safety directive.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is not easy in five minutes to give the commission response to seven excellent reports, but i should not miss this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs – mrs morgan, mrs ţicău, mr chichester, mr vidal-quadras, mr mussa, mr paparizov and mr belet – and all the shadows. i also would like to thank mrs niebler who worked really hard to let us come to this report in a very limited amount of time. i will start with the internal energy market because two years ago we started with an ambitious goal: to create a truly competitive and truly european energy market for the benefit of the citizens of the european union. the tool to achieve this goal is the third internal energy market package for gas and electricity. today we are close to the adoption of this package and thus to achieving this goal. the trialogue has now succeeded in agreeing to the compromise. the commission fully supports this compromise. if adopted tomorrow by plenary, it will give the european union the clear regulatory framework needed to ensure a properly functioning internal market and to promote much-needed investment. first, it will facilitate cross-border energy trade with the establishment of an agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators, with binding decision powers, to complement national regulators. this ensures the proper handling of cross-border cases and enables the european union to develop a real european network. secondly, the new legislation will promote cross-border and regional collaboration and investment with a new european network for transmission system operators. eu grid operators will cooperate and develop network codes and security standards, as well as plan and coordinate the investments needed at eu level. thirdly, it will provide for more effective regulatory oversight from national regulators that will be much more independent and have all the necessary means. fourthly, it will ensure effective unbundling of the generation and transmission of energy so as to eliminate any conflict of interests, promote network investment and prevent discriminatory behaviour. this legislation will also ensure greater transparency, thereby guaranteeing equal access to information, making pricing more transparent, increasing trust in the market, and helping to avoid any possible manipulation or any sort of manipulation of the market. this is not just about a properly functioning internal market but more generally about ensuring that the eu can rise to the challenges we are facing in the field of energy: climate change, increased import dependency, security of supply, global competitiveness. in particular, a functioning internal market is a key element of the eu’s effort to tackle climate change. without a competitive electricity market, an emissions trading scheme will never work properly, and our aims regarding renewable energy will not succeed. the compromise reached also strikes a good balance between the positions of parliament and the council. the rapporteurs have already presented to you the key elements on which the political compromise reached strengthens the common position adopted by the council in january 2009. i would like to highlight a few key issues. parliament’s call for stronger consumer protection and the fight against energy poverty is now enshrined in the legislative texts. smart meters, allowing for consumers to be precisely informed of their consumption and promoting energy efficiency, are provided with a target of 80% of consumers to be reached by 2020. the powers and independence of national regulators have been strengthened, as well as the powers of the agency, and the rules on effective unbundling have been made more efficient. most importantly, we have also seen developments on the ground. a lot of companies have restructured their business and how they deal with networks and consumers. today at the hannover messe, i saw that smart metering is making good progress and companies are taking these decisions on board. energy efficiency is definitely one of the key policies of the european energy policy. the building sector still has considerable potential to further improve its energy efficiency, at the same time creating new jobs and stimulating growth. i warmly thank parliament for its support for the commission’s proposal on the recast of the energy efficiency of buildings directive. the discussions and proposals demonstrate that parliament shares the policy objectives and wishes to vigorously improve current performance. it is not an easy area, as there is a lot of subsidiarity, so we need to strike a good balance. the directive provides a framework to upgrade the energy performance of the eu’s buildings. there is a lot of clarification, and this reinforces the effect of the directive, like the principles on the ‘cost-optimal’ method, requirements on control mechanisms and many definitions. there is the issue of financing instruments that are very important for stimulating energy efficiency measures, but these need to be tackled in the appropriate legislation and initiatives. consequently, the buildings directive is constrained in what it can do with respect to financial and fiscal issues. very efficient buildings, whether they are called low- or zero-energy buildings, or next-generation buildings, are a new feature introduced into the directive by the commission. it is essential to make this provision ambitious but realistic, and with some flexibility given the eu’s varied climate and economic conditions. unified requirements like net zero-energy buildings would not exactly fulfil this requirement and would therefore be excessive. harmonisation is crucial for the internal market. i fully support parliament’s wish to have a single methodology for calculating cost-optimal levels of requirements. however, prescribing a common methodology for the energy performance calculation itself could be counter-productive, causing delays in the implementation of the directive by several years due to the complexity of member states’ building codes. this is therefore very complex and difficult legislation, but i very much rely on parliament strengthening this legal instrument. the rapporteur also spoke about tyres that can play a significant part in reducing road transport energy intensity and emissions. the combined impact of this proposal together with the type-approval legislation on tyres should bring around 5% fuel savings on the total eu fleet by 2020. this proposal will provide consumers with standardised information on fuel efficiency. it will also give information on wet grip, which is another essential parameter for tyres, and external rolling noise. by doing so, the label will pull the market towards better-performing tyres while avoiding improvements on one aspect being achieved at the costs of others. the report which will be put to the vote this week will add some significant improvements to the initial proposal, such as the change from a directive into a regulation, which will reduce transposal costs and ensure that the same application date for the label applies to all. the inclusion of snow tyres within the scope of the label, with the adoption of a specific grading as soon as possible, will also benefit those driving in ice or snow conditions. it is important that we find the best way of displaying the label. there is some discussion on this. we would very much like you to support our proposal to integrate the label on the stickers which are currently delivered with each tyre to indicate their dimension, load index etc. i believe we have really made remarkable progress on the energy dossier during this legislation and, most importantly, it is supported by our citizens and by industry. having been at the hannover messe, we have seen a huge drive from industry for energy efficiency, not only in the areas we have now legislated on, but also in other branches of industry such as different appliances used for end consumption and to produce tools for different types of industry. energy efficiency, energy and europe: these are the key words for what we have achieved during this legislation. i would like to thank all those involved and particularly all members of the european parliament that supported this. as a final word of apology, i could have another five minutes but i will use only one minute when i am given the floor for the second time. thank you for letting me finish this speech.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank mrs morgan for her report on the electricity markets. as a shadow rapporteur it has been a pleasure to work together with her, and i think it is fair to say that we have been able to achieve a liberalisation of the energy markets. at least, we have made some important steps, and thereby we have opened up the market. i think it is fair to say that the report on electricity also played the lead in the process that we are discussing here today. i think it is important to state that this is also in contrast to those in different countries who would like to have more protected borders regarding energy markets. we have a debate in sweden in which there are those who would like to have some sort of protectionism regarding the export of electricity. but that would hinder and damage all the things that we can achieve by an open electricity market. it is by opening up the markets that we can do something about climate change and can make the best use of renewables and nuclear power. we can also ensure that we have a good supply of energy all over the union, binding countries and markets together. i think the steps we are taking with this energy market package should be seen as important ones. although there are more steps to be taken, we have contributed to the energy security of europe and to the fight against climate change.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i was impressed that you at least took the initiative to try to enumerate all these decentralized agencies. there are many, many of them. i would argue that the discharge of the eu authorities has become increasingly important precisely because the number of authorities has increased. the budget and staff have also been increased. the total number of authorities has increased from 11 in 1995 to 27 today. in 2007, the budget for all the authorities was eur 1 243 500 000. in 1995, the average budget for an authority was eur 7 million, but today it is over eur 22 million. the staff has increased in the same dramatic way. in 1995, there were on average 38 people working in each office, and today there are 155. i think this increase is remarkable in itself and something we have to consider, that is, whether it is a reasonable instrument and whether it is reasonable with this kind of increase. it also requires more of us to deal with the discharge and to devote more time and energy to it. we have therefore chosen to deal with 21 of these authorities for which we are responsible in specific reports and also to draw up a horizontal report which addresses the problems common to the vast majority of the authorities. i am very pleased to note that the majority of the authorities receive pure audit reports from the court of auditors. so they were shot correctly. at the same time, many of them - yes, almost all of them - still have problems year after year with large surpluses, with compliance with the financial regulation and the staff regulations. this is something we have to consider, namely the fact that year after year we repeat certain criticisms while no change is taking place. this means that we have to think more about how we hold these governments to account and how we actually govern them. in the horizontal report i propose, among other things, that we should make flat-rate cuts when the budget is not used up enough or when we cannot appoint all the posts. it is also suggested that we should have a joint host authority to help the smaller authorities with the heavy administrative tasks. i think that's very important. we have chosen this year to look specifically at four authorities which have received dirty audit reports from the court of auditors and which have particularly serious problems. it was the european police college, the european gnss supervisory authority, which we usually call galileo, the european railway agency and frontex. i am pleased to note that three of them, galileo, the railway agency and frontex, have been able to obtain a discharge after reviewing all the information they have given us. unfortunately, cepol, the european police college, has still provided a lot of information, but far from all of it. therefore, we cannot grant a discharge yet. the remaining problem is the issue of private use of eu citizens' tax money, such as private use for furniture, private mobile phone calls and private travel. we have asked for information on this but have not received full information. that is why i and the committee are proposing that we postpone the discharge until cepol has explained all this. in addition, there is a fraud investigation in the olaf concerning this authority. it is serious, and we must show that we are taking this seriously and getting to the bottom of it. that's why we're postponing the discharge. it's not something i enjoy doing, but i'd like to say it's the only responsible thing to do. we need to have all the paperwork on the table before we can grant a discharge.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? employment policy is part of cohesion policy. there are still some errors and shortcomings in this area and some points in the monitoring on which one can have views. some 27% of cohesion policy is the responsibility of the employment committee. as regards the payments, most of them are from the period 2000-2006. the positive thing is that 100 per cent of the payment appropriations have been used during the period. what is sometimes a problem is the lack of evidence of indirect costs and personnel costs and their overestimation. that is why we have also said that we should have a more standardised way of indicating this, combined with the better controls at member state level that we have in the new period, which could make it better in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? it will be very tacky, but i would like to take the opportunity to thank our eminent chairman herbert bösch. i think he has led the committee in a fantastic way over the last two and a half years. there was not much debate about my reports on the discharge of the authorities. i therefore hope that all colleagues will choose to support them, regardless of how they voted in committee or what they have suggested in the past. it is important that parliament should be unanimous on these matters. since this is a joint debate on all the reports, i would like to comment on a report other than my own. i am very much in favour of the casaca report, which i think is very good, particularly paragraph 105, where we have decided that parliament should not allocate extra money to cover the deficit in the voluntary pension fund for us meps. i know that many people find these points very controversial, but for me they are at least self-evident. there are many who have criticised this fund for many, many years. i would like to say that i think the fund itself is something of a scandal. we are all affected by the global financial crisis. at a time when ordinary people are suffering from pension cuts, politicians should not save their own skin by using more of the taxpayers' money for their own pensions. this is a message which i hope the leadership of this parliament will really take to heart and not fill the fund with more tax money. on the contrary, we must put an end to this and as soon as possible.
rapporteur. − mr president, i think it is fair to say that we are now in a new era of energy policy, where there is a need for energy policy to be consistent with a policy for stopping climate change, and at the same time to be combined with a policy for energy security. those three legs – energy policy, climate policy and energy security – must function together. from my perspective this highlights the importance of nuclear power. it is important that the existing nuclear power plants are managed in as safe and secure a way as possible, but it is also important that we have clear rules to ensure that the future power plants of the european union are as secure and safe as possible. this is not only a matter of preparing the ground for more nuclear power. i think that there is rather large support for such a policy in the european union, that it is growing and that we need to live up to the responsibilities that this gives us all. i respect those who are hesitant about or are against the use of nuclear power, but whatever opinion and whatever view we have on nuclear power, there can be no disagreement on the need for the rules to be as safe and secure as possible for the nuclear power we have. it is from this perspective that i would like to present this report on the community framework for nuclear safety. there is a legal basis for this and there has been a debate in committee on whether all the procedures have been fulfilled. a letter has been sent from the committee on legal affairs to the committee on industry, research and energy saying that if it is a new proposal then there is a need for a new opinion from the group of experts. my view, and the view of the majority of the committee, is that this is a revised proposal which we have been working on in the european union for nearly seven years. it has been changed because of an opinion from the group of experts and because of the opinion given by parliament and i must say that now is the time to reach a decision. i hope that council will be able to take this decision this spring. if we do not and if we delay this process, we will see in reality that new nuclear power plants will be planned and constructed without this community framework. so this is the time for action. those who are trying to hinder this because of their attitude to nuclear power are in reality preventing the european union from having a community framework establishing as safe and secure rules as possible. i have tried to position my report in three ways. first of all to give a clear structure on the responsibilities of member states and governments, licence holders and national regulators. secondly, i have been very clear about the independence that the national regulators will have and i am strengthening the requirements on national regulators, meaning that they must be able to act when they see any risk of a nuclear power plant not fulfilling the security rules. thirdly, we are including in an annex the rules of the iaea as binding rules, thereby making this community framework clear, strict and firm, and that is the note on which i end.
member of the commission. − mr president, as has been rightly said the aim of this proposal is to create a community-wide framework. it was not easy to achieve this. we based our work on the western european nuclear regulators’ association (wenra) and on experience in the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management. we also worked together with the council, which had discussed more or less the same proposals in 2003. i believe that it strikes the right balance at this stage; i believe it gives european citizens a clear understanding that there is a community-wide framework. i am confident this framework will evolve with time, but i very much welcome mr hökmark’s report because it strengthens the proposal while keeping the balance we need. it is the national regulators who are responsible for the safety of the installations running in their countries. these issues are so sensitive that we cannot, and should not, sidestep them, but we do need constantly to improve nuclear safety standards. i believe this directive gives us that opportunity.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i think it is important to say that no one should be against increasing the level of safety and strengthening the safety rules. there must be no tendency, just because one dislikes nuclear power and is against its use, to underplay the importance of the rules we need. in that sense, i think it is a step forward that we have a common community framework because it creates a consistency, a transparency and an opportunity to ensure our common development towards higher standards. this directive really does apply to existing power plants because it increases the importance and the independence of national regulators – which is crucial – and it paves the way for us to secure higher and higher requirements in order to have, as it were, a ‘race to the top’ regarding safety. let us be very frank about this. we will have nuclear power in the future, whatever all of us here today agree about on this issue. in my view, it is important that we can lay the ground for having more nuclear power plants. they must be credible and there must exist a credibility in public opinion, but – even more importantly – there must be a substantial, real safety in managing nuclear power, as there should be in every other thing we do. the existing rules are good and strong, but we are making them more consistent, and that is a step forward. i would like to thank you for your cooperation and for the discussion. i think that we have achieved a better result, and i hope that the council will listen to this opinion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as an eu sceptic, i often feel a certain amount of cynicism when various eu institutions come up with absurd and ridiculous proposals such as article 47. such proposals help to undermine the unwarranted respect that many citizens of eu countries feel for the eu's aspirations the aspiration to transfer power from democratic member states to a bureaucratic brussels. the fight against centralisation and bureaucracy is therefore facilitated by such proposals. at the same time, however, i take my role here in the european parliament seriously. we must stop this development, and i hope that a majority of members of this house feel the same way. if not, i hope that at least a majority will fear the verdict of the electorate at the beginning of june and therefore realise that in their own self-evident interest they must reject this proposal. if the subsidiarity principle cannot even persuade the eu to keep its paws off the sport fishing in the stockholm archipelago, then the future of the european project is bleak.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a global financial crisis is shaking the world economy, and proposals are now being made to prevent a repeat. more regulation, more oversight is in. the starting point, however, must be: what went wrong? let me give you 50 seconds to summarize the reasons. we have an ownerless capitalism. financial firms are run by civil servants. these can design systems that give themselves gigantic bonuses and pensions as profits rise. profits can be increased in the short term by management increasing the level of risk in companies through lower equity. when the risks are paid off, the management has received their money, the losses are taken by others. those who would change such a policy have no incentive. bank depositors know that there are deposit guarantees. everyone knows that most banks are too big to fail. they're being bailed out by the taxpayers. valuation institutes know that they will not get any assignments if they question the soundness of the client companies. the policy of central banks and the treasury is that bubbles cannot be punctured. as a result, they grow unreasonably large. are we discussing solutions to these problems? the answer is no!
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the financial and economic crisis has shown that we in europe must be able to act together. we should be glad that europe has had and has the euro, not 16 different currencies. it's lightened the load. it was only when the euro countries met in paris this autumn that the crisis could be stabilised and a recovery could begin. then the global effort followed with the g20 summit, which was the start of something new - a world where the world's great powers met on equal terms. we must now make sure that we are better equipped the next time a crisis strikes. the directives under discussion today are important and i think they are balanced. we need more openness and transparency in the market, more opportunities to act across borders and improved supervision. we must also fight protectionism and, in my view, support free trade. we must also limit risk-taking and stop over-reaching. the free market also needs its own framework and rules. i am a liberal and i can of course agree with that. however, we must be careful not to overregulate. that risk is in the present mood. let us not forget that the market economy creates wealth.
in writing. - it is not an end in itself that there must be cotton production in the european union. the union must look at the world market for cotton as a whole and enable eu consumers to buy cotton as cheaply as possible, regardless of where it was produced, as long as it is produced under certain ethical and environmental conditions. i am strongly opposed to this report. i would like to say again that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a say in the eu's agricultural policy, because otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to all the different groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - this report is essentially a report on the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament. but since this report refers in a few places to, celebrates and expresses hope that the treaty of lisbon will soon be ratified, i have chosen to vote against the report as a whole. i consider the lisbon treaty to be rejected in principle, since the citizens of a member state have voted against it in a referendum. in addition, there are still more member states where a majority of the voters would certainly have voted against the lisbon treaty if they had been given the chance. i cannot support the ignorance of the european parliament's committee on petitions in the report's wording.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the idea of putting the internal market for natural gas into competition. however, it is wrong to require member states to take concrete measures to promote the increased use of biogas and biomass gas. this is a matter for each member state. i have therefore voted against the proposal put forward by the committee.
in writing. − there are very good reasons to strive for better energy efficiency and lower emissions from our vehicles. however, a harmonised eu labelling system for vehicle tyres is problematic. in particular, previous experience with labelling is a matter for further reflection. take the labelling system for household products. the reluctance of industry to increase the requirements for a certain level of energy labelling, for example for refrigerators, has led to the fact that the labelling system is today hopelessly complex and difficult to manage. what politicians hoped would encourage further development and provide consumers with much-needed guidance has instead contributed to a slowdown in the development of better products and made it harder for consumers to make the right choices. i believe that the eu can play an important role in reducing the environmental impact of vehicles. unlike the commission and the committee, however, i am not in favour of detailed regulation, but of higher minimum requirements for tyre manufacturers who want to sell their products on the internal market. eu policymakers should create sustainable and beneficial frameworks for society and business, not indulge in small-scale governance. since the commission and the committee responsible do not seem to share my view, i have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. the commission wants the current price regulation of so-called roaming to be extended to cover not only voice calls but also sms traffic and data roaming. calls for more limited regulation and points out that price regulation should be temporary and that the market should eventually solve the high roaming charges; i voted in favour of the european parliament's position, which is a little more market-oriented than the commission's proposal. i voted against the legislative resolution, because price regulation is de facto wrong in the long run.
in writing. - i have today decided to abstain from voting on the so-called roaming ii proposal which proposes to regulate prices in the market for mobile telephony services abroad. the proposal, which was a compromise between the major political groups, contained many good ideas, including more information for customers to avoid huge telecommunications bills after a stay abroad. the reason for my lowered voice is simple. i don't think politicians in the eu should set prices on free markets. the point of a market economy is that price is determined by supply and demand, not by what politicians in brussels perceive as 'fair'. already, price regulation is in place through the so-called roaming i. the consequence has been that operators cluster around the price range, which is not in the interests of consumers. the task of politicians is to ensure fair competition in the internal market. i agree that this is not the case for roaming services. however, instead of soviet-style price regulation, measures that promote competition, such as a ban on the large operators from pricing smaller operators seeking access to networks abroad, would have been better.
in writing. - we voted against this report on a control system for fisheries policy. we welcome the proposals for stronger enforcement measures, but we are critical of the emphasis on control of recreational fishing. it is not reasonable to regulate recreational fishing when it is in fact industrial fishing that is responsible for the problems of overfishing in our seas.
in writing. the european parliament voted today to include sport and recreational fishing in the common fisheries policy. the eu has thus begun to regulate one of our most popular pastimes. the proposal is absurd. firstly, the fishing waters are those of each country, not brussels. secondly, recreational fishermen's activities do not have a significant impact on the stock. thirdly, this is legislation which will be impossible to comply with. just look at sweden, where we have 7,500 miles of straight coastline. do the eu bureaucrats and my colleagues in this house really think that it should be possible to control what is happening at all times and in all places? a law that cannot be enforced is a very bad law. on the other hand, i am not particularly surprised by the proposal. the eu is like a steam locomotive that has started to roll towards its goal of becoming a fully-fledged federal state. it's big, heavy, and very difficult to stop once it's rolled. and anyone who gets in the way gets run over. today is a dark day for those of us who want a well-functioning and solid european cooperation, but above all it is a very dark day for recreational fishermen in all the member states.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'd like to ask the same question myself. where is the council in this debate? it's the council we're looking at, its budget management. i think it is remarkable that the council is not here at the moment to answer our questions. we in the committee on budgetary control, and in particular our rapporteur, mr søren bo søndergaard, have raised several points of concern regarding the financial management of the council of ministers. we have repeatedly pointed this out but have not received satisfactory answers. two examples: in 2006, the council spent eur 12.6 million on travel. this money was intended for interpretation. i would like to ask the council, but if the council cannot answer, perhaps the commission can: where did the trips go in 2006? what does this 12 million euro represent? the council also has secret accounts, the hors budget accounts. the internal auditor has called on the council to close these accounts, but without success. i'd like to ask why it hasn't happened. how many of these accounts are there besides the budget? what's in these accounts? our job as members of the european parliament is to scrutinise the council's use of the budget. we do this because we represent the taxpayers. the council's job is to answer our questions. now we want answers to these questions. what happened to that 12 million euros? what's in the secret accounts? how many secret accounts are there? if we do not get a satisfactory answer - which we have not yet received - then we will not grant the council discharge tomorrow.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are faced here with one of the really important questions of principle. it can be said that i, as a representative of an eu-sceptic party, believe that the council should be the dominant body in european cooperation. this parliament will be devoted to the internal market and cross-border environmental issues. however, there is a third issue that has now come up. the council and this parliament are in principle equally responsible for the budget and where the taxpayers' money goes. now, in my view, it is unprecedented that the council is keeping secret where money is going. that's why we don't have transparency. citizens cannot say 'i accept this because i know what the money has been spent on'. that is why i say - and as far as i can understand all the speakers in this parliament agree for once - that there can be no question of granting discharge to the council until we know where the money has gone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? brian crowley is a very good colleague, and he often makes some very clever suggestions. this time, however, i find it difficult to follow his intentions. the commission proposes to increase the term of protection for music recordings from the current 50 years to 95 years. so it is more or less a doubling. that this is going too far should be something most people would agree with. the compromise now being discussed is 70 years old, so it is going in the right direction. there are still a number of questions. will an extension increase cultural diversity and facilitate the creation of new works? what has the extension of copyright in the united states meant for developments there? has it strengthened the status of the artists, or are the record companies the big winners? can we justify an extension that dramatically increases the duration of protection? is it not too easy to say that creativity and the desire to create are directly linked to the length of the protection period? for me, these questions remain unanswered. as a liberal, i believe in copyright and its purpose, and i can agree with several of my colleagues in this house. it is obviously important to ensure innovation and to have control over one's own work, including financial control. but our legal interventions in this house must be proportionate, which i do not think is the case in this example. in my country, the issue of access to works on the internet is under discussion, especially after the high-profile trial of the so-called pirate bay judgment. at a time when copyright is the subject of intense debate, i therefore believe that we would be making a mistake if we accepted the commission's proposal to extend the term of protection of musical works from 50 to 95 years. therefore, like sharon bowles, i will reject the motion in its entirety. i believe that the commission should be given a second chance. commissioner, think again, do it again and come back!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal to extend copyright to 95 years is a horrifying example of how the big record companies have managed to lobby a proposal that completely suits their purposes. such a large extension of copyright protection will only affect individual consumers and hamper the development of new music. that is why we in the gue/ngl group have tabled amendments calling for the 95 years to be removed. we also call for the entire directive to be rejected. the rights to the birthday song happy birthday are said to be owned by the north american company warner. people who celebrate birthdays in public barely dare to sing that song in some places in the united states for fear of reprisals and fines. it's an absurd example of how bad things get when you let special interests and industry run politics. that's the united states. the copyright term there is already as long as 95 years. let that not be the case here in europe. reject the 95-year requirement and reject the whole directive! i wonder, moreover, whether the commission has carried out any impact assessment of how much of the future revenue will go to individual artists and how much of the revenue actually stays with the big companies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let's get one thing absolutely clear: an extension of copyright protection would not lead to more or better music. honestly, what 25-year-old musician would say, no, i'm not going to record this record, because i'm only getting paid until i'm 75 and not until i'm 120? it does not even favor the poor musicians, since it is not their records that are still selling more than 50 years after the recording, but rather it favors either the big record companies or those who have already made a lot of money on their recordings. i think this has completely lost its proportions. the person who today discovers the cure for cancer will in and of itself receive the nobel prize in medicine but in addition receive protection for his invention for a maximum of 20 years, while the person who will record a record then will have that invention, or rather that record, protected for 95 years. it's out of proportion! i can agree that 70 years is better than 95, but whatever the case, i think the best thing would be to reject the whole proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the whole premise of this report is wrong. it is based on article 95 of the treaty, which guarantees the freedom of the market and therefore does not concern public health or patients. the right to good health care in all member states should be a priority, but instead the commission's starting point is a market where health care is like any other commodity. this directive gives priority to citizens who can afford to pay large sums for travel and accommodation and to those who have good knowledge of and contacts within the healthcare bureaucracy. it's about the high-income, well-educated, not the most needy. the amendment by the committee on the environment to allow member states to grant prior authorisation before the treatment is carried out may be considered by some to be a good thing. the problem is that it is fraught with limitations and the burden of proof for member states to issue it is heavy. public planning will be hampered, and national health care is at risk of being drained. in the end, it will be for the commission and the court of justice to decide whether the prior authorization of the member states is proportionate. when the directive is based on article 95 of the treaty, it will be the market and not the quality of care that will govern.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today's decision is one of the ones i am most proud of that we will be taking here in the european parliament, namely a decision to open up europe and guarantee free movement for those who are sick and in need of care, for those for whom free movement can be a matter of life or death, a decision that everyone should have the opportunity to decide for themselves about their own care and that it should not be only those who are well informed or rich who should have that opportunity, but we should make it possible for everyone to seek care wherever they want. you social democrats want to force people to ask for advance notice. in plain english, this means that you want to force the sick to ask permission before going to the doctor, at least if they do so in another eu country. why are you doing this? because you want to be able to say no! you want to be able to control, regulate and plan, take power away from the patients. however, we do not need your advance notice to avoid people lying out with money themselves. if i go to the doctor today in stockholm, i don't have to ask permission or lie out with money. the truth is, you've been working against this proposal from the beginning. you have tried to limit, hinder and destroy it. now you're doing it again. when we debated this issue in sweden, you would not be able to seek care wherever you wanted in sweden. now you don't want people to be able to go anywhere in europe to get treatment. you say you support the bill, but when we voted on it in committee, you dropped your votes. is there anything more cowardly? today you don't even know how you want to vote. you don't even know what you're voting for. today we all have a choice. we have a choice to make: stand up for the rights of patients or stand up for the rights of bureaucrats and politicians to decide and regulate. i know what i'm gonna choose. i'm going to vote to put patients first. i think that is what everyone in this chamber should do if they want to sleep with a clear conscience tonight.
mr president, i would like to thank you. all patients should have the right to care when they need it. we social democrats think it is important that people can seek treatment abroad, for example when queues are too long in their home country. that is why the swedish social democratic government took the initiative of a directive in this area. however, the thickness of the wallet must never be the determining factor in healthcare, and decisions about healthcare should be taken by people close to you, not by bureaucrats in the eu system. the european commission's proposal for a directive leaves too much power to eu bureaucrats. furthermore, it does not take into account all those who cannot afford to be out with hundreds of thousands of dollars. nevertheless, the swedish members of the european parliament have uncritically welcomed the commission's proposal. we have, however, proposed and worked hard to make it easier for people with no big pockets to go abroad for treatment. we have also worked hard to make it clear that healthcare is a responsibility of the member states, not something for eu bureaucrats to decide. we haven't gotten as far as we want. i would therefore urge all members to support our amendments to article 8 (3). we can then also support this directive and we can get a quick solution for all patients in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. finally, finally! the commissioner and john bowis have done an excellent job. the heated debate which preceded this directive has felt very strange. here the european union and we in this house have a great opportunity to reconnect with the citizens, to reconnect with the people, which is what we lyrically long for and often emphasize. but what happens then? well, then we hesitate, and a large number of people in this parliament - including the swedish social democrats - want to make it more difficult for patients and their possibilities of receiving treatment abroad. why would you do that? i can't help but see that this is about saving systems, not saving patients in need of care. i am glad we have come this far, commissioner. you've accepted your responsibility. we have the opportunity in this assembly to take responsibility. may the council also take its responsibility!
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? since parliament has decided to grant a discharge to the european police college against my recommendation and that of the committee, i would just like to call on my own members of the ppe-de group to actually accept the amendments of the pse group. there is no reason to justify why we choose not to grant discharge and to postpone discharge now that we have done so. in order to ensure consistency and coherence, i propose that our group support the socialist group's proposal and vote in favour of the following four amendments.
in writing. − we have voted against the casaca report on the 2007 discharge of the european parliament for of three reasons. firstly, we oppose the situation whereby the meps’ voluntary pension fund is being funded by taxpayers’ money. secondly, we oppose the situation whereby taxpayers’ money can be given to a private pension fund where the list of participants and beneficiaries is kept secret and is not published. thirdly, we completely oppose using even more taxpayers’ money to cover the pension fund’s current deficit as a result of speculative investments. we do support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the casaca report, which remedy some objections we have concerning the voluntary pension fund of the meps, but because the casaca report does not change the existing situation, we have voted against giving the discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament’s budget for the financial year 2007.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement. members of the european parliament who are members of this extra pension fund have to accept a reduction in these luxury pensions, just as low-income earners have been forced to accept a reduction in their pensions. the discharge is for 2007, but we can't wait a year to criticize a 2008 decision on extra payments to the pension fund.
in writing. − i abstained from voting because i left the voluntary pension fund on 21 april 2009 and therefore did not want to influence the outcome of the vote.
in writing. − we are completely in favour of more stringent rules regarding financial activities and credit rating agencies. however, we chose to vote against the report by mr gauzès today. this is because the report is insufficient and does not put enough emphasis on the right issues. there is a strong need for public credit rating agencies which do not work for profit, since this is the only way to avoid conflicts of interests in the rating process. this question was not raised in the report in a satisfactory manner.
in writing. the situation in the world economy is still turbulent and as recently as yesterday the imf was able to announce that the financial crisis could very well worsen further in the future. it should hardly surprise anyone that this is the high-water mark of regulatory zeal and control hysteria. however, it is a terrible mistake to start sketching out a comprehensive system of control of the functioning of the financial markets before the investigations have been carried out and the analyses have been completed. several key players, including sveriges riksbank, consider that the commission has not been able to credibly demonstrate a market failure that justifies further regulation of credit rating agencies. this is clearly not a matter of concern to the eu. instead, brussels lawmakers are keen to see the turmoil in world financial markets as an opportunity for the eu to move its positions forward. if there is any system in the world today that is truly global, it is the financial markets. further controls on, for example, credit rating agencies should therefore be initiated and planned at global level, if and when deemed necessary. since this house seeks solutions within the framework of european cooperation, i have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - due to my special contacts with the credit rating industry, i did not take part in this vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are those who think we should and those who think we should not have a resolution on moldova. those who do not want to see this resolution often say that the osce has approved the election itself. let me say, then, that the osce report was not entirely uncritical. on the contrary, it contained a great deal of criticism. however, the resolution is not only about the elections but also about what happened after the elections and what has been going on in moldova for a long time. human rights must be respected. the media must be free. the mistreatment of peaceful demonstrators must never be tolerated. the adoption of this resolution would send a strong signal to the people of moldova that they are not alone, that we see what is happening there and that we do not accept it. that is why i call on everyone to support the resolution.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? it is now almost 15 years since the end of the war in bosnia and exactly 10 years since the nato bombing campaign forced serbian forces to leave kosovo. in december it will also be 17 years since i myself came to sweden as a refugee from the war that had set my former homeland on fire and made bitter enemies of the bosniaks, croats and serbs who had previously lived together as neighbours. the fact that neither bosnia, kosovo nor any of the other countries in the western balkans have since fallen back into war is entirely due to the eu and nato. but even as the guns have fallen silent, the legacy of the war lives on in the politics and society of the region. the only way for the people of these countries to overcome their past is to continue on the path towards eu membership. only the carrot and the stick, which is the central dynamic of the accession process, can get the governments of the countries to focus on carrying out the work and the reforms that can cement stability and prosperity in the western balkans once and for all. in the report i have written on this subject, which the european parliament will now vote on tomorrow, i review the various initiatives and projects in which the eu and its member states are involved in one way or another in an attempt to build societies ready to meet the tough demands of eu membership. i shall not go into the details of the report here, but there are two points i would like to highlight in particular. firstly, there is a fundamental difference between the countries in the enlargement process and those that joined in 2004 or 2007. the countries of the western balkans were ravaged just over a decade ago by full-scale war and ethnic cleansing. fortunately, the same cannot be said of hungary, estonia or romania. but it also means that the eu cannot simply copy the manual of previous enlargements and apply it to the balkans. an example of this, which i mention in my report, concerns the prohibition on the deportation of suspected criminals prosecuted in other countries. such bans are currently in place in all balkan countries, but the eu is not currently calling for their abolition. this is done on the grounds that no similar requirements were imposed on, for example, slovakia or poland. it should be obvious why this analogy doesn't hold up. i would think that there are very few suspected war criminals hiding from justice in slovakia, but i can tell you that there are many more in serbia or bosnia. justice is the foundation on which reconciliation can be built. impunity for war criminals is completely unacceptable and therefore calls on the commission and the member states to raise again the question of the possibility of getting the countries of the region to work towards a joint abolition of these bans. the second is that the process of connection, as i said, is very tough and demanding, as it should be. if you do not set strict standards and insist that they be met in full, you will not achieve any real results either. when the requirements are already so tough and difficult to meet, the last thing we can do is to put new sticks in the wheels of the countries that want to join, sticks that have nothing to do with the ability of the countries to meet the eu membership criteria. i am also thinking of those who claim that the eu is already full and cannot accept any more members for the foreseeable future. but as i point out in my report, it is technically possible to continue to admit new member states even if the treaty of lisbon does not enter into force. but this requires political will, and that is what my colleagues and i in this parliament are called upon to create.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for a very useful debate. i am also very pleased that the idea of visa liberalisation with the western balkan countries is receiving general support from the member states of the european union, and i would like to express my full support for the statement made by mr roucek, who made a very strong appeal to this aspect, because strengthening people-to-people contacts between the citizens of the western balkan countries and the citizens of the european union is certainly a positive step and will help to overcome the feeling of a certain isolation that some of the countries there have and will contribute to the creation of a europe without barriers. i am also deeply convinced that the economic crisis we are currently experiencing must not become an excuse for slowing down the enlargement process, as some speakers here have said, such as mr rouček. on the contrary, it is particularly important for the stability of the region that the process does not lose momentum. i am also very pleased that progress has been made in the examination of montenegro's application for membership of the european union, which is being sent to the commission by the council in the near future for an opinion. the presidency considers this step to be a very important signal for the whole region. we also consider it important to unblock the accession talks with croatia. we regard the burdening of the enlargement agenda with bilateral problems as very unfortunate. progress in european integration with serbia remains a challenge, which is conditional on full cooperation with the relevant international tribunal, including the detention and surrender of the remaining accused to justice. the presidency is working hard to ensure that the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters can be applied by the european union and that the ratification process can then begin before the stabilisation and association agreement signed a year ago. the importance of the stabilisation and association process for the reform process in serbia and for supporting a predominantly pro-european government would be undeniable. the presidential and local elections in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia met most international standards and generally accepted conditions for a free and democratic electoral process. however, it is clear that without a resolution of the bilateral dispute over the country's name, its progress towards candidate status will remain minimal. as far as bosnia and herzegovina is concerned, it must move forward. dependence on the international community is not useful, but rather it violates the principle of accountability and removes responsibility from local politicians, as mr swoboda rightly pointed out here. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to become actively involved in leading their country to a better future. it is counterproductive to return to politics based on ethnic principles, as i think mrs doris pack has very aptly said. the transition from the office of the high representative to the enhanced office of the eu special representative that is being planned does not mean that the international community or the european union is abandoning bosnia and herzegovina. e european union is here to help, and is fully aware that bosnia and herzegovina is not just another candidate, but rather a very specific case with its own sensitive issues and problems. as part of its strategy, the european union is planning a tailor-made office and policy and will be ready to take over the overall coordination of the international community's activities in bosnia and herzegovina. however, we will only do so if bosnia and herzegovina itself demonstrates that it is ready for this significant qualitative change. the first big step towards europe was taken with the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, but that was only the beginning. we stand ready to continue to provide assistance in this inevitably long process. the year 2009 is an important year and could be decisive for the future of bosnia and herzegovina. first, the transition from the office of the high representative to the office of the special representative of the european union is imminent. it represents a significant step towards bosnia and herzegovina breaking out of its dependence. the second period from the next general election in 2010 should be used to the maximum extent possible to push through the necessary reform agenda, including constitutional reform, as mrs pack rightly pointed out here. third, the whole region is moving forward. and bosnia and herzegovina simply cannot afford to be left behind. i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we all want the same thing. we want bosnia and herzegovina to make progress. we appreciate the support we receive from you as members of the european parliament.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this responsible debate and for your support for the european perspective of the western balkans. i share the concern expressed in this debate by doris pack, hannes swoboda and jules maaten, among others, about the political developments in bosnia and herzegovina. it sometimes seems that bosnia and herzegovina has an inexhaustible capacity to generate and even renew political tensions, when in all logic we should rather expect a reversal of developments and a political reconciliation to find a place in the political future of bosnia and herzegovina. i agree with mr maat that all the countries of the western balkans have the prospect of eventually joining the european union if they fulfil the conditions for membership of the union based on the copenhagen criteria. this also applies to bosnia and herzegovina; in the case of these conditions there is no shortcut and no sale at a discount, and anyone who assumes that there is such a thing is wrong. it would be very important for this correct view to gain a strong foothold in the political debate in bosnia and herzegovina itself, so that the citizens can draw their own conclusions about the kind of policies they have the right to expect from democratically elected politicians. i see the future of bosnia and herzegovina in the following direction, and my vision is based on our cooperation with javier solana, with whom we have drawn up several communiqués on the future of bosnia and herzegovina and the role of the european union in that country. firstly, we are aiming at a transition from the dayton to the brussels era, that is to say, from the era of the high representative of the international community to the reinforced presence of the european union in bosnia and herzegovina, which would also mean a 'two-hat' system in the case of the eusr and the head of the commission delegation, so that we can make the best possible use of the political and economic resources that the european union has. it is obvious that the protectorate cannot apply for membership of the european union and that is why this transition is an integral part, an absolute element in the process of bosnia and herzegovina's convergence with the european union, and that is why the fulfilment of the conditions of this transition is in the interest of all the policies of bosnia and herzegovina and in particular of the citizens of the country. this is also a political issue, because it is too easy to blame the international community for the problems in bosnia-herzegovina when one does not want to look in the mirror. it is too easy to blame the high representative when you should be negotiating and reconciling with your own countrymen and countrymen. i hope that in this respect the political culture of bosnia and herzegovina will develop and mature and that the media in the country will also take responsibility for ensuring that negative nationalist language is no longer used as it is at present in bosnia and herzegovina. secondly, the country needs a constitutional reform to enable it to build a functioning system of government. the current state system in bosnia and herzegovina is too expensive, too inefficient and, on the whole, incompatible with membership of the european union. that is why constitutional reform is needed, through evolution, not through revolution, and i am glad that some signs of this kind of discussion are being seen among the leading politicians in the country. thirdly and lastly, in this context, visa-free travel is an essential part of bosnia and herzegovina's european future and i am sure that this will allow bosnia and herzegovina to enter the european mainstream, which is certainly in the interests of the country itself and its citizens as well as the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank mr nechas for his commitment to this debate tonight. i would also like to thank mr rehn for highlighting bilateral conflicts which have de facto become european problems and for stressing the importance of not sacrificing enlargement because of the financial crisis. bilateral conflicts are currently holding back the ability of croatia and macedonia to continue on the path towards eu membership at the pace at which they are able to carry out the necessary reforms. in my report, the european parliament joins the ranks of those who insist that bilateral conflicts must remain bilateral and not be confused with the accession process. finally, i would like to say that i believe that enlargement to the western balkans is too important for peace, freedom and prosperity on our own continent for us to jeopardise it. that is the message i want my report to send to the 500 million europeans who will soon be electing a new parliament, to the governments of the member states, to the commission and to the people and politicians of the western balkans. this is a message that is particularly important to get across at a time when the economic crisis risks leading more and more people and politicians in europe to close the door on themselves and not allow more people to live, work and trade wherever they want on our continent. i therefore hope that this is also a message which my colleagues in this parliament will take with them in the forthcoming electoral campaign. if europe has become colder and more introverted, then our main task in this house is to work towards making it welcoming and open again.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr csibi. the result of our joint efforts reviewing the eco-design directive is, in my opinion, to a large extent, a missed opportunity. to widen the scope from energy-consuming to energy-related products is, of course, good. but why stop there? the problems we face in terms of resource use go beyond energy. the commissioner should know that. the problem is the overall pressure on ecosystems and the natural resource base. many scientific reports bear witness to this, not least our own thematic strategy on natural resources. an estimated two thirds of major ecosystems in the world are over-utilised, and we are depleting natural capital. this problem is getting worse because of growing economies and populations. the fact is that the current growth model and concept is not sustainable. who but the european union could help transform the concept to a more sustainable one? the eco-design directive, in my opinion, does offer a way forward. as with energy efficiency, we could establish standards and norms for how to source materials, how to design products to facilitate recycling and reuse and enhance resource efficiency. sooner rather than later we will have to address resource efficiency. having seen earlier drafts of the commission proposals which included resource efficiency, it is a mystery to me why such proposals were not followed through. tell me, where else in eu legislation do we have measures that encourage resource efficiency? we need policy frameworks that encourage resource efficiency across the board, that encourage companies to try new business models – like functional thinking – offering services rather than products, and where revenues obtained through quality of service, and not only via increased volumes from sales, are taking place. as i said, all this could have been covered by the directive. i predict that, a few years from now, we will all regret that we were not more proactive today. as i said, a missed opportunity.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. tax evasion is not our main problem as the world economy shakes at its foundations. it is true that we live with tax fraud all over europe, in the united states, in fact all over the world. it's true that we have tax havens around the world where wealthy people and companies can put money in and let it stay there. however, this is not our main problem today. it's an evasion of responsibility to focus on this. what we have to do now is to take a grip on the financial crisis if we are to have any tax bases left in the future at all. what is the reason for our present situation? this is mainly because we now have an ownerless capitalism. in practice, financial firms, large banks and most large companies are controlled by civil servants. these officials may introduce bonuses, severance payments and pensions, all of which are dependent on the profits of the company that these people run. there is nothing easier in the world than to increase profitability and thus the profits of companies in the short term. it's just increasing the risk. there are lots of studies of taleb distributions, as we often call them, which means that you can expect that if you increase the risk a lot, the return goes up dramatically and gives you all these bonuses and so on, all these "margins". then, of course, the risks will fall out, but then those who run the companies will have quit or will have to quit. they can buy wine castles in france, play golf in spain. i don't feel sorry for them, but the system is simply unsustainable. furthermore, there is no incentive for any actor to prevent this development. credit rating agencies are dependent on getting clients. they don't get clients if they say those clients aren't creditworthy. depositors know there are deposit guarantees. so they do not have to worry about which bank they put their money in. other players know that you can settle with counterparties and count on them being too big to fail, the taxpayers always take the credit. this means that the member states must say in advance that they will not take all the risks. it's a terribly difficult story to execute, but it must be executed. i do not think that the european parliament will be involved in this unfortunately, but i would recommend that everyone in this parliament does.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank sarah ludford for her report. kathalijne buitenweg cannot be here, but i will represent her views. i must begin by asking: what is a terrorist? what kind of feeling do terrorists create? they create insecurity. terrorists also make everyone vulnerable, and prevent them from pursuing their life as they want to. then you look at the anti-terror legislation with profiling and you see it creates insecurity and it creates problems for people living their daily lives. you cannot combat terrorism with anti-terror laws that create the same feelings of insecurity. i think the european court has been very clear on this, saying that this should be banned. we can see that it is neither efficient nor legal. the carter center in the us has showed it was not efficient. the german surveillance scheme on 18-40-year-old muslim men in germany was not efficient. it does not work, and i very much hope that we can take away the last exemptions allowing airports and harbours and so on to use these inefficient methods that make people feel bad. and how can you say that you will have a high level of protection when people leave cds with 20 million people’s data on them lying in cafés, and when we know how easy it is to hack into computers? i did it myself as a kid actually. so i think this report is important. the council needs to adapt its logic and spend the resources efficiently, targeting specific individuals and focusing the time on them instead of going for ethnic registration, which is in complete violation of any human rights standards.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i would like to express my appreciation for the way in which parliament has handled these two dossiers. this means that the new regulation on crossborder payments will enter into force as planned on 1 november this year and the electronic money market is thus given a second chance to develop. alongside the payment services directive, these two european legislative acts will create a modern and comprehensive legal framework for the community payments market and pave the way for the european payments industry to fully develop the project of the single area for payments in euro. this project will offer european consumers and businesses a fully integrated, cost-efficient and high-quality payments market. the commission therefore thanks - and i am particularly pleased to do so - the european parliament for this further sign of its commitment to the sepa.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. electronic money that can be used across borders is a very big step forward. it is an important task for the eu to improve the internal market by promoting its use. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you what we are talking about. when we introduced the euro for a large number of countries in europe, it was on the basis of the analyses of the value of a monetary union. the value is that we reduce exchange costs and other transaction costs. we are reducing the cost of information by having a common currency. the price we pay for this is that we get more unstable economies. we are making it harder to maintain a level playing field and a high level of employment and to maintain stable public finances. we are seeing this at the moment when things are going to hell in the head for countries like ireland, spain, italy and greece. it is important to note that the benefits of lower transaction costs through a single currency are to be matched by the sacrifices, but those benefits are constantly falling precisely because of the enormous progress made in the payment system. in a fairly short time, we will be in a position where we find that we have such efficient payment systems that the costs have become negligible. we are faced with a single currency which is really only ensuring instability in our european economy. i told you before, you can see it afterwards. think about this!
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i would just like to say that the commission put forward a proposal on this new important policy area which meant that we thought that implementing measures in the current legislation alone would suffice. parliament is now making a very clear demand that the commission should review all relevant legislation so that we can protect consumers, workers and the environment from the negative effects of nano products and so that they can have a market that is safe and secure and developing. i would remind you that the commission has two years to implement parliament's demands, and that in today's vote, thanks to a compromise, parliament will be very clear that we are almost unanimously behind this. it is now time for the commission to start its work on a review immediately so that nanotechnology can be regulated in a way that protects citizens.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the regulation on the protection of personal data should be considered as a step in the right direction. we strongly oppose ethnic profiling, which involves the arbitrary use of data by the authorities for reasons such as race, colour, language, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, etc., and we see a clear risk that innocent people could be subjected to arbitrary arrests. however, we do not believe that this problem can best be solved at eu level. this problem will be solved internationally through international agreements and conventions, possibly through the united nations. we support many of the points in the report but, on the basis of the above, have decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: however, the commission proposal and the committee's report have been overloaded with writings which, if they were to be heard in this house, would only contribute to overregulating eu cooperation. we have voted against the report as a whole and call for a thorough review of the legislative proposal as a whole.
in writing. - it is very important that we create good systems to prevent tax fraud. this is particularly true of vat. however, we believe that the commission's proposal and the present report in its present form raise more questions than it answers. the eu has a long-term ambition to reduce the regulatory burden. the commission's proposal seems to be going in the opposite direction and risks increasing the administrative burden, particularly for european small businesses. the proposal also contains provisions which will lead to major changes in swedish legislation. we have voted against the report at first reading, but we are nonetheless looking forward to a constructive development of the commission's original proposal.
madam president, i have to say something. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the negotiating team for their excellent cooperation. i'm sorry we can't reach this agreement. i am doing so in the light of the situation we have today, namely that 15 countries are using opt-outs. i'm sure there could be a few more, and it's not a good situation. i can also say that we made some progress in the negotiations. i think that, with regard to idle time on duty and compensatory leave, it was a success that we all said that idle time on duty was working time. i think we could have made a deal there. the reason we didn't reach an agreement was opt-out. on the one hand, there was the council, with a blocking minority, which absolutely did not want to remove the opt-out, and on the other hand, and this is often forgotten, there was a large majority in the european parliament which absolutely wants to remove the opt-out because it has nothing to do with health and safety. we in parliament tried, we put forward a proposal that the council itself should come up with a deadline. in the final stage, we were even willing to say, we just set a date for when we're going to renegotiate and come up with a closing date even that the council was not willing to accept. then it became impossible. it was not, mr sedláĉek, that the council accepted all the conditions that parliament had set as regards the opt-out conditions. when we started the negotiations on the last day, they rejected almost all the proposals. i can see that there is actually a majority for the opt-out to be removed. there is a large majority in the parliament and a majority in the council, but unfortunately it is a minority in the council that has to decide that opt-outs should remain. it's unsatisfying. i hope that the commission will come back, that it will take its responsibility and that the starting point for a new proposal will be what the directive is about, namely the health and safety of workers, and then opt-outs will have to be phased out.
for the ind/dem group. madam president, i would like to thank you. although the draft law we are considering concerns trade in seal products, the discussions have been more about sales law, and then mainly outside the eu. the slaughter of seals, as we have seen in pictures from countries outside the eu, is appalling and should not be allowed to happen. however, a distinction should be made between hunting and slaughter. in sweden, seal hunting is carried out, but it is a controlled protection hunt. no clubs or clubs. no guns. the whole procedure is surrounded by strict rules and it would be a very unfortunate management of natural resources if the animal was not allowed to be used once it was shot. the compromise that has now been worked out is better than the original proposal. however, i am concerned about how some of the legislation may be interpreted and that it may have negative consequences for sweden and our nordic neighbours. let's hope i'm wrong.
madam president, i have to say something. i'm so glad we finally made it here. at first, many said that this was impossible, that it was not possible. it worked. it worked. we are now supporting those canadian citizens who want to stop being ashamed of their country's behavior on the islands. for 30 years, we've tried to control, tried to regulate this hunt. nor in norway nor in canada. the rules are not followed on the ice. it is time to close the chapter on believing that this industrial, large-scale commercial slaughter can be made somehow humane. today's decision is due to the work of the people's movement and the majority of european citizens who want this ban. it is a victory for reason, it is a victory for humanism, it is a victory for democracy and, not least, it is a victory for all seals who are allowed to grow up without being beaten and slaughtered solely for the sake of human vanity. i thank all my colleagues who have made this possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank arlene mccarthy very much for her words because a lot has really been done on this directive. i would, however, like this directive – which we will continue to work on – not just to be adopted, but also to be embraced, by all the stakeholders. we will not spare our efforts for this to happen. as this is our last session here, may i use the opportunity to thank you all very sincerely, especially arlene as the chair of our committee, as well as mr harbour and especially mrs cederschiöld. i expect one way or another to keep in touch with you because it was a real pleasure to work with you and i hope this will continue in another way. i would now like to concentrate on the next important steps for the directive because i do believe that this directive is very important for all of us. we need this directive for the internal market of the 21st century. let me make it clear that, before tabling the proposal, the commission carried out a comparative law analysis, the ‘compendium’, covering the laws of the member states transposing the consumer directives under revision. the commission is now going through the various provisions of the proposal in more detail with the member states in order to improve its understanding of the practical impact on national law. my services are preparing a table, which aims to illustrate the impact of the proposal on the existing levels of consumer protection across the eu. the table will cover those provisions (for example the length of the withdrawal period and of the legal guarantee) for which it is possible to assess whether the proposal will bring about an unquestionable increase or decrease in consumer protection in the various member states. the table will be available by the end of may at the latest. under the proposal, member states will be able to retain general contract law remedies for faulty goods, provided that the legal requirements for the exercise of these remedies differ from the requirements which apply to the remedies regulated in the proposal. i appreciate that this interaction between the proposal and national general contract law remedies could be made clearer in the text. this means that remedies such as the right to reject in the uk or the garantie des vices cachés in france could be maintained. however, i am also prepared to consider alternatives whereby elements of these national remedies could be incorporated into the proposal, if such a solution were to be preferred by the council and the parliament. the proposal complements the unfair commercial practices directive (ucp). whereas ucp protects consumers collectively against questionable business practices by rogue traders, the draft consumer rights directive provides consumers who conclude a contract with a trader with individual contractual rights, which they can enforce before civil courts. as regards the services directive and the e-commerce directive, the information requirement in these directives will apply in addition to those of the proposal and will also prevail in case of conflict with the proposal. finally, as regards the rome i regulation, the preamble to the proposal makes it clear that the proposal is without prejudice to the regulation. as a consequence, the national law applicable to consumer contracts within the scope of the draft directive will be determined exclusively by the regulation. the commission, in preparing the proposal, was inspired by the findings of the contract framework of reference (cfr), for example, on the black list of unfair contract terms, the passing-off and delivery rules, as well as the streamlining of the pre-contractual information requirements. for the future, it will be important to ensure coherence between the cfr and the consumer rights directive. given that the cfr will be a longer-term project, we will have to make sure that the final definitions and rules of the consumer rights directive are incorporated in the section of the cfr dealing with consumer contracts. the proposal for a directive on consumer rights was preceded by a thorough impact assessment. the impact assessment also monetised the administrative burden that would accrue as a result of the changes proposed, and compared it with the cost of compliance that traders wishing to sell to other member states have to incur as a result of the fragmentation of consumer protection rules and rome i. the assessment showed that full harmonisation of the essential consumer rights would have strong positive effects on internal market integration and consumer confidence. during the initial stages of the legislative process, it appeared that further evidence and more insight might be useful on consumer behaviour and preferences regarding sales remedies. i intend to launch a qualitative study in the near future on this matter, with a view to gathering evidence following in-depth interviews with consumers and traders. the results of the study should be available in the third quarter of 2009. the commission is committed to maintaining a constructive dialogue – and this is my political commitment to you – with the stakeholders mostly affected by the draft directive during the legislative process. to that effect, i will gather consumer and business stakeholders together at a joint meeting in june 2009 to clarify elements of the proposal and to further discuss the most important aspects of the proposal. parliament will be kept duly informed. i would like just to add that last week i met all the consumer organisations under the umbrella of beuc and we discussed this matter again. two days later at least 10 representatives from the house of lords came to discuss this directive in brussels. this is a very good sign that interest in consumer policy is increasing, as is right for the internal market.
there is now room for improvement in consumer rules. the negotiations have not started, parliament has not made its views known and the member states are at the beginning of the debate. we need full harmonisation in the consumer field. i'm getting three points here that i think are eager to get in. 1. a clearer scope of the directive; 2. a product with a defect in origin can now be returned within two years; it should be three years. 3. the right of withdrawal should be set at one year, which will increase consumer protection in most member states. clear and transparent rules and a high level of consumer protection benefit consumers and traders. vague rules are a disadvantage for serious traders and smes. the council and parliament should now incorporate these three key points in a fully harmonised proposal. as this is my last debate with meglena kuneva, i want to thank you for a very pleasant collaboration.
for the gue/ngl group. thank you, madam president. what we see today is the emergence of a new society. we are seeing a societal evolution of technological innovation where the old type of communication that was one-way, of the type "one speaks and everyone else listens", has been replaced by a more multifaceted communication, a form of participant communication, and we are many who have adopted this culture of freedom. it's about interaction, freedom of expression, creativity and the joy of making. it is an exchange of information that is often independent of commercial interests, but unfortunately old power structures feel threatened and therefore want to step in and regulate and control what happens on the internet. the pretext of access to organised crime and terrorism is used to try to restrict our civil rights, but this must not happen. that is why i have worked with my colleagues on the united left on a number of civil rights amendments to protect citizens' rights on the internet. i would like to reiterate my amendment no 166, which was adopted at the last reading. the aim of the amendment is to ensure that the end users of electronic communications, i.e. us citizens, will be able to access services and applications without undue restrictions. we need to strike a balance between people's right to freedom of expression and personal privacy and protect personal data and the freedoms and rights of others, including the right to protection of intellectual property and the protection of public safety and security. in some countries, governments want to introduce new, stricter laws that allow internet service providers to shut people off from the internet. we believe that no citizen should be excluded from the internet without a prior judicial review. as a citizen, i must also have the freedom to surf the internet and feel secure that private companies cannot access the information. we who actually love the internet and the possibilities that the internet brings, we say that the rights of users should be defined by what we use our subscription for. we do not want to be reduced to consumers, so that our rights are only what is stated in the subscription agreement. unfortunately, both the council's common position and the compromise open the way to this, but we want to be citizens of the internet, not just customers and consumers. the internet is a meeting place, a forum for free information, a kind of public. are we now going to regulate this forum and adapt it to the interests of commercial representatives? no, i don't think that's what you mean. the question is, what kind of society do we want to live in? do we want to live in a surveillance society or do we want a society where people can feel secure that the rule of law is respected? a society where people can feel that their privacy is respected and a society where freedom of speech is valued above control of people's lives. that's the kind of society i want to live in and work for. so support my amendments and those of the left on civil rights.
thank you, madam president. the telecommunications industry is one of europe's leading and most dynamic industries. it requires investment, competition and continuous innovation to enable citizens to achieve the greatest possible economic potential, but also in terms of information, democracy and diversity. what we can see in this package is that we get clearer rules on competition and a clearer role for the european authority to ensure that the market is open to competitors. we're dealing with issues of frequency planning and the digital dividend, the new space that's being created so that more services, more operators can act. all of this, madam president, leads to greater freedom for consumers, greater opportunities. when i look at my own country, sweden, this means that the dominance that telia, the old monopoly, has had in terms of competition from home to home is now broken, because now there will be open competition from home to home. it is a success and it will open up more choices for better competition and it will strengthen the individual consumer and thus also the individual's freedom on the internet and broadband. madam speaker, the whole issue of internet freedom has been up for discussion here. i am sometimes surprised when those who are against the european union and those who are against the treaty of lisbon demand supranationality vis-à-vis the member states against which they vote in all other contexts. i heard my colleague on the left here today, eva-britt svensson, call for an amendment which would mean that the eu would go straight into the member states' view of the judicial process. it is a departure from the treaties that exist today and from the lisbon treaty we are talking about, and it is a supranationality that nobody has really discussed. however, we have secured a clear separation of what the legal authorities should do and what the internet operators should do at the beginning of the legislation. we have ensured that no one can infringe on the freedom of individual internet users without a legal and legal process that meets the basic requirements. the requirements of amendment no 138 are therefore met and the various threats that have existed are gone. i think that this is a success with which we should be satisfied, because we are at the same time opening up the european telecommunications market to more freedom, more diversity, more competition, and thus laying the foundations for its future dynamism and world-leading position.
thank you, commissioner. there is a need for greater harmonisation in electronic communications and for a clearer and simpler regulatory framework, which contributes to the functioning of the internal market. the main objective is to achieve increased competition leading to increased supply, lower prices and better quality for final customers. success requires balancing many different interests. the telecom package is not intended to be used for criminal law, penal sanctions or to influence the procedural law of the member states. improved competition should be the focus. every citizen should be able to have his case tried in court; it should not be up to the commercial forces. i therefore hope that my colleagues will now support the compromise. integrity issues arise in commercial law, data storage, criminal law and transparency law. the union has not yet found a common approach with common principles applicable to all three areas, and that balancing will be necessary to avoid conflicting legislation in the long term. it is still a future challenge to find a balance between the police, the transparency officers, the data protection officers and, of course, the it companies. the commission could help by setting up a joint task force to find common principles and a balance between the different interests in this important area. finally, i would like to congratulate mr reding and the rapporteurs on a job well done.
thank you very much, madam president. i'm sorry i'm a little late. i would like to begin by saying that i think it is important to point out that the telecommunications package, as it stands before the vote today, is basically good. it strengthens competition and user rights, and this is important to stress, because it is something which i think is often forgotten in the debate. we are almost blind to the details and sometimes miss the big picture, and that is, after all, what the telecom package is all about, strengthening competition and user rights. but the threats to our civil liberties and rights on the internet and the threats to the open and free structure of the internet are many today. never have they been more clear than in the debate over whether to ban users from the internet without judicial review. i am very proud that we in parliament have agreed that we do not think that is right. you shouldn't shut people off from the internet without getting that thing legally tested. it is important because it is a very serious restriction of civil liberties and rights. it is also a reversal of legal principles which we would never accept in any other context. we don't forbid someone who has stolen a bicycle to use the roads. i am therefore glad that we will be saying a clear no to this type of proposal here tomorrow. at the same time, this does not eliminate all threats to the internet. there are many other issues which will continue to be debated and i look forward to those debates. there are some areas where i would like to see us go a little further, but on the whole this is a step in the right direction. i am proud that tomorrow we will make it clear that the rights and freedoms of citizens on the internet, particularly the possibility of avoiding being blocked without legal proceedings, are something that the european parliament rejects.
i note that the council of ministers is not here to comment on the settlement. i wish you would insist that they be here before the vote tomorrow. i think there are many citizens in europe who would like to have an answer from the council as to why they oppose a text which explicitly states that no one should be cut off from the internet without a prior court decision. i wish the council could speak and explain its opposition. i think thousands of europeans want to know why.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we think that's good. however, the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture also contain some items which we believe should be dealt with at administrative level. since everything is voted on in a single vote, we have not been able to oppose these proposals. our vote in favour of the amendments on origin labelling does not, of course, mean that we are in any way supporting the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - we are strongly critical of the thinking behind the creation of a globalisation fund. first, they take the view that globalisation as such is a problem. we see globalisation as a path to increased prosperity, not least for poor developing countries, provided that major economic players, such as the eu and the us, reform their respective protectionist trade policy positions within the wto. eu member states are able to take national measures to assist sectors which they consider to be in need of financial support. a special eu fund is created to protect against arbitrariness, inefficiency, bureaucracy and unjustified expenditure. how should the commission assess, in a relevant manner, whether a sector has been negatively affected by globalisation? in addition, the amounts involved show that this is more like a publicity stunt for the eu. for these reasons, we have voted against the report in question.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats, have chosen to vote in favour of the compromise negotiated with the council, interpreting it as meaning that the negative effects we feared for the swedish hunt disappear as a result of the derogation in article 3 (2). we've all been upset by the images of the canadian seal hunt. most consumers would therefore opt out of commercial hunting for products that do not meet the requirements of swedish hunting, cause unnecessary suffering and are carried out on a large scale in uncontrolled forms. we are opposed in principle to the eu's direct or indirect interference in hunting matters which are a national matter, especially when it could undermine well-functioning swedish rules. in this case, we have chosen to make a holistic assessment. in these circumstances we have accepted the compromise, as it sends a clear signal that parliament does not accept any treatment of animals.
in writing. - this report proposes to amend an existing directive on ship-source pollution. this is to enable criminal prosecution of pollution. junilista supports measures to stop pollution from ships. however, we believe that criminal justice should be a purely national matter. in addition, discharges from ships in international waters should be addressed at un level. we therefore voted against the final vote.
in writing. − the junilists consider that transnational environmental issues are one of the eu's most important tasks. we believe that the amendments, better than the commission's proposal, offer the final consumer the opportunity to make smarter choices by improving information on the energy consumption and environmental impact of products. we are, however, critical of certain individual letters in the amendments which seek to increase the level of detail in european energy policy. however, the amendments are well-intentioned and we have therefore decided to support them in their entirety.
thank you, madam president, mr president of the commission, mr minister. one of the main points of the june summit is expected to be the appointment of a new commission president. the media have said that the socialists will not vote for your re-election, mr barroso, unless you promise to open up the so-called posting directive. this is a strange discussion. the commission's previous approach has been to try to avoid opening up a very complex and politically sensitive directive and instead to ensure that member states which have problems in complying with the requirements of the directive amend their own national laws. mr barroso, i would like to ask you very specifically, in view of the forthcoming election campaign: are you and the commission firmly of the opinion that there is no reason at present to open up the posting directive?
in writing. – protectionism is hidden in ms showing less trust for each other and less enthusiasm to cooperate. eu was established as an attempt not only to assure peace but also as a tool for cooperation. it is in times like this, during economic and financial crisis, it's important for ms not to build walls around its national borders but continuing to act together in a coordinated manner. we must maintain european solidarity while adhering to rules and principles that stem from the eu treaty. eu must make maximum use of the single market and stand up for open trade in the economic downturn. attempts to find a scape goat, such as the financial markets, will not solve the problems. abuse shall be stopped by new rules but not prevent access to capital and investments when we come out on the other side of the crisis. it is not easy to overcome the problems. protectionism is for sure not the solution. the solution after the fire alarm activities are passed is more trade, more harmonization, functioning internal market with goods and even more with services. cross border cooperation increases innovation and jobs, the only sustainable ways out of the crisis.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner, president of the council. i'm going to concentrate on what was supposed to be a summit, but didn't happen. jean-claude juncker said yesterday that we are now moving from a financial and economic crisis to a social crisis. we are also facing an employment crisis. we are going to have increased unemployment in the next few years, perhaps 26 million people will be unemployed in the eu in a year. this is the situation, and it is at this point that the council and the centre-right and centre-left governments decide to reduce the employment summit to a troika meeting. several of the leaders will not be attending this meeting. it shows that the council and the governments do not give priority to the question of employment. i agree with mr barroso that the commission wanted a summit. is that an inevitable development? no, it's not that. more needs to be done, more needs to be done in a coordinated way, and more needs to be done now. it is about environmentally smart investments that are long-term but also provide jobs in the short term. it's about energy efficiency in housing that creates jobs now but also makes housing better for the future. it is lifelong learning that has never met the objectives of strengthening europe for the future. if we do it now, people will get the necessary training while strengthening europe for the future and reducing unemployment. they can be replaced by young people who are studying and entering the labour market instead of becoming unemployed. we can invest in consumer subsidies for the most disadvantaged groups, for pensioners, students and the unemployed. it creates jobs, it creates consumption. mobility is important, as was said in prague at the workshop. it is important, it is very important, both professionally and geographically, but if we do not ensure equal treatment, equal conditions and the right to strike in the european labour market for equal treatment, protectionism will grow. the commission therefore has a responsibility to make changes to the posting of workers directive. in short, we can do things now, we can reduce unemployment, we can strengthen europe for the future. these two things are linked, but far too little is being done at the moment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. − every year, hundreds of millions of animals, pigs, cows, sheep, chickens, horses and other animals are slaughtered and transported across europe. in addition, 25 million fur animals are slaughtered. this causes tremendous suffering to the animals. of course, it would be best if we did not eat them at all and if we did not wear the animals in the form of fur. but this regulation is not really about that, it is about how we can reduce the suffering of animals in slaughterhouses. the commission's proposal is a step forward, but it needs to be tightened up on many points. in the committee on the environment, we voted in favour of my opinion, which calls for, among other things, shorter transport and standby times at the slaughterhouses, investment in mobile slaughterhouses, the inclusion of fur animals in this regulation, the possibility for member states to take the lead and have stricter rules, and the independence and strengthening of the animal welfare inspectors and the proposed national reference centres for animal welfare. it is gratifying that the committee on agriculture supports our proposal for mobile slaughterhouses and for fur animals to be included. however, i am deeply concerned about several other amendments from the committee and individual members. it is unfortunate that the committee on agriculture has completely removed the proposed time limits for transport to the slaughterhouse and the standstill time inside the slaughterhouse. please vote for amendment no 125 by the left group and we shall have these demands back. i also do not understand why the committee on agriculture wants to scrap the proposal for national reference centres for animal welfare. it is also extremely important to allow member states to go ahead and have more ambitious rules than what is provided here. i would like to vote in favour of amendment no 124. finally, i am deeply concerned that the committee on agriculture does not want to allow those member states which have a complete moratorium on slaughter without anaesthesia. this is the case, for example, in my country, sweden. we have found a balance between religious tradition and animal welfare that is appreciated by most. please vote against amendment no 28, as proposed by the rapporteur.
thank you, mr. speaker. the joy of injury is the only true joy, says the cynic. but even those of us who are not cynical, of course, admit that the joy of harm is a joy, and such a joy i feel now. why would you do that? last year, junilistan and the ind group started to call for a rollcall vote at all final votes. and i remember how president pöttering called us out, mocked us and claimed that this cost the shirt. the committee now proposes that all final votes on legislative proposals be by roll-call. right! in order to hold meps politically accountable, voters must be able to control how they have voted. how did daniel hannan, diana wallis or eva-britt svensson vote, to name a few of my favorite colleagues? this proposal is an important step towards a democratic order, it strengthens the control of the voters over the yes-men in this house. i thank richard corbett for this and i thank the president for the floor.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have three crises in the world and in europe right now: the financial crisis, the accompanying jobs crisis and the climate crisis. the package of measures should be aimed at contributing to solutions to all three crises, but i find it difficult to see that this is the case with this package. marilyn monroe once said, "i'm not going to be a star. "you don't have to lead me into temptation, i can walk by myself". it is more or less the case that the governments of the member states have acted in using the money that we have been able to release jointly for this economic package. it is very much to be criticised because it is an old-fashioned energy and above all the time factor. the measures in the package are so far ahead of their time that they may create jobs in the next recession instead of this one. our intention has been to try to put in place new technologies, new ideas and to put in place measures to create jobs in this recession in europe. we will therefore (hopefully re-elected) continue to monitor what the commission has promised through commissioner piebalgs, namely proper, serious monitoring of implementation and follow-up. finally, madam president, i would like to thank commissioner fischer boel for an incredibly good job and commissioner piebalgs, with whom i have worked very closely in the committee on industry and who has personally meant an incredible amount to the energy package, the climate package and what we have achieved in this area in these five years. i thank the rapporteur, who has done a good job, and my colleagues. in conclusion, i think we should actually stop the work of the european parliament in strasbourg and meet in one place from now on.
for the ind/dem group. thank you, mr president. we have now gone through a global financial meltdown and it continues to plague us. we must then analyse why this has happened before we take action at eu level. i'd say this: the first is that we have got an ownerless capitalism. the big companies are no longer controlled by their shareholders, as pension funds, insurance companies and other types of funds do. it leads to officials being able to govern as they please, they do it in their own self-interest which is to raise the risks enormously and then it goes like this. we've had too many big banks that are "too big to fail" as the saying goes. the glass-steagall act was intended to prevent this, but it has been repealed in the united states. we should think about whether this is part of the solution. we have deposit guarantees for the small savers and also for the rather large savers. it means that the depositors in the banks don't care a damn about whether the banks are safe, because they know that the taxpayers are protecting them. that's the problem. central bankers are not punching bubbles, but are instead being praised for continually making sure that the bubbles can grow indefinitely. alan greenspan got a tremendous reputation for something that is actually a major explanation for why things have gone so badly. subprime lending is the beginning of this and a fundamental part of it, it was introduced by politicians who now say: "now we're going to solve this by taking more power from the market". i doubt that. the regulatory system that existed in basel ii was circumvented through shadow banking. now we're talking about new rules for capital. if there's more shadow banking, this won't help. i therefore suggest that we take a different approach to this, and ask what should be done. we shall then find that very little needs to be done at eu level. this is a global problem to be dealt with elsewhere.
thank you so much. thank you. just a brief information about the swedish translation. in paragraphs 13 and 36, minimum income is translated as minimum wage. it's supposed to be minimum income. there is a difference between the minimum income and the minimum wage, and there is an error in paragraphs 13 and 36 of the swedish translation.
in the first reading of the telecommunications package in the european parliament, a majority of members voted in favour of the abovementioned amendments nos 138 and 166. parliament thus clarified that a court order is required to have someone disconnected from the internet and that users have the right to freedom of expression and personal privacy. the council, however, chose to ignore the wishes of the european parliament and rejected amendments nos 138 and 166. the european parliament and the council have now reached a compromise. this compromise does not include amendments nos 138 and 166 in their original form. we have therefore voted against the compromise in today's vote. the junilist and the danish junbeweging are keen to see amendments nos 138 and 166 actually included in the telecoms package and have therefore tabled a series of amendments known by internet activists as 'citizens rights amendments', which have been supported by a few other political groups in the european parliament. if our proposals had won the support of eu parliamentarians, there would have been a good chance that the european parliament and the council would have finally agreed on a telecoms package that seriously protects the rights and privacy of internet users.
in writing. - i vote against because there should be guarantees that part of the free spectrum goes to non-profit-making organisations and not to large telecommunications companies!
in writing. − social security systems differ depending on where you are in the eu. this is not a problem, as many seem to think. rather, it is a natural outcome of the fact that countries are different and that general democratic elections have chosen to vote for different political systems. as supporters of intergovernmental cooperation in the eu, it is therefore obvious for us to reject the texts, both in the commission's proposal for a directive and in the report by the european parliament, which aim to give the eu more power over national social security systems. it is worth pointing out, however, that the strict proposals that are put forward are primarily aimed at ensuring minimum levels. the texts do not therefore prevent member states from going further if they so wish. that is a positive thing, especially from a swedish perspective. this flexibility, and the fact that equal treatment for women and men is so clearly highlighted as a fundamental principle of a well-functioning democratic society, has led us to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - the commission's ambition to increase investment in energy infrastructure is the latest example of the hubris that has infected the officials at berlaymont. the proposed investments are both large and costly and it has not been demonstrated so far that all these investments should be managed at eu level. in total, €3.5 billion worth of investments are proposed for 2009 and 2010, money to be channelled from member states' budgets. for sweden, this means a significant increase in the membership fee, plus sek 1.4 billion. the fact that the commission feels that it has not had time to carry out a thorough impact assessment of such a comprehensive proposal is directly shocking. the rapporteur for the european parliament's report does not seem to be particularly concerned by these objections. instead, it is proposed to increase the aid measure from eur 3.5 billion to just under eur 4 billion! our mandate to promote less costly eu cooperation leads us to reject this easy-going handling of taxpayers' money. however, it should be noted that there are very good reasons to continue to seek ways of improving and developing co2 capture and storage technologies. we have voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have adopted the euro by a factor of two. however, the content has become too focused on fossil fuels. in addition, there is no support for measures to improve energy efficiency. the commission proposed at an early stage that €500 million be allocated to 'sustainable cities', a proposal which was subsequently withdrawn. the 'sustainable cities' aid had enabled extensive efforts to expand district heating and cogeneration and to improve the housing stock. such measures would be cost-effective, would reduce emissions and create new jobs. it is a tragedy that the economic crisis has not given us the opportunity to give new life to this type of action.
in writing. - we, the critics of the eu, are constantly striving to make eu cooperation less costly. the taxpayers' money must be used wisely. in these turbulent times, it is important that we are careful about our common resources. budgetary restraint must remain a guiding principle for us as elected representatives. the present report, however, takes a very different approach. the commission's initial funding proposal is considered insufficient and, in a twist of fate, the major political groups in the european parliament have proposed a doubling of the appropriations for the financial supervisory bodies. on what grounds is there reason to ask? we are dealing with a complete global financial meltdown where international action must be taken on a global scale. the supervision of financial institutions in the eu area is not currently a matter for the eu. it's important to keep that in mind. the present proposal, however, gives a clue to the ambitions of the political establishment. with vague references to the financial crisis and its possible consequences for supervision and audit, this is nothing but a misguided attempt to move the eu's positions forward. we can of course only vote against the report and the alternative motion for a resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the social agenda (a6-0241/2009). it is a good report which demands, among other things, that economic freedoms or competition rules must never prevail over fundamental social rights. however, the report also calls for minimum wage systems. we social democrats believe that it is important that everyone is guaranteed a decent living wage and we think that the eu should encourage this. this is particularly important in tackling the problem of the 'working poor'. the choice of the member states to guarantee their citizens a decent wage, either by legislation or by delegation to the social partners to regulate it by collective agreement, will remain a matter for the member states themselves.
in writing. - this report stresses the need for member states to modernise and reform their national social security systems, introduce minimum wages and review school curricula. the commission also proposes to increase the financial share of companies' profits for employees and to introduce a european year of voluntary service. unusually extreme example of how the eu should take over national self-determination. in addition, the report makes two references to the treaty of lisbon, which has not yet entered into force. a disobedient expression of the arrogance of power! this means that the democratic treatment of the treaty is seen as a pure game for the galleries and is not supposed to have any bearing on the outcome. that is why we voted against the final vote.
in writing. - a very good report overall with many good aspects, but because of repeated demands for growth and the fact that member states must introduce minimum wages combined with legally binding social conditions which would entail a massive transfer of power to the eu, i abstain.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report on the active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market (a6-0263/2009). it is a good report which is particularly important in the current economic crisis, where active labour market measures are needed to ensure that the weakest members of society are not permanently excluded from the labour market. however, the report also calls for minimum wage systems. we social democrats believe that it is important that everyone is guaranteed a decent living wage and we think that the eu should encourage this. this is particularly important in tackling the problem of the 'working poor'. the choice of the member states to guarantee their citizens a decent wage, either by legislation or by delegation to the social partners to regulate it by collective agreement, will remain a matter for the member states themselves.
in writing. − this report addresses a number of important issues which should be dealt with by the member states and not by the eu. the european parliament also called for the introduction of eu targets on minimum income guarantees and minimum wages. the report also contains a reference to the treaty of lisbon (which has not yet entered into force). we have therefore voted against this report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i take it for granted that we are all entitled to speak for as long as we like. i might need an extra minute or two, and i shall be happy to take it. låt mig nu tala på mitt eget språk. för eftervärlden kommer det europeiska politiska etablissemangets hantering av lissabonfördraget att framstå som en skamfläck, och det på två sätt. dels med tanke på den politiska processen för att driva igenom det och dels själva syftet med fördraget och innehållet i det. om vi ser tillbaka till laeken 2000 så sades det där att man skulle ta fram ett förslag till en konstitutionell lösning. denna skulle leda till att vi fick ett närmre europa, medborgarna skulle vara engagerade, man var orolig över att medborgarna i praktiken tycker illa om eu. konventet under giscard d'estaings ledning producerade någonting annat. de europeiska folken vill inte ha detta, det sades nej av folk i frankrike och i holland. alla vet att det skulle ha blivit nej i storbritannien, i danmark och i många andra länder om folken hade kunnat få säga sitt. man gjorde försök att runda detta, det kom ett nytt fördrag som är det samma, men som man, när det passar, förnekar att är det samma och sådär håller man på. nu står vi i det läget att när det irländska folket har sagt nej till det vi nu kallar lissabonfördraget så har man mage att göra en undersökning om varför irländarna röstade fel. detta är någonting alldeles oerhört och det debatteras över huvud taget inte. ni skrubbar alla varandra här på ryggen och talar om hur bra detta är, trots att ni vet att detta är en skamfläck. den andra invändningen jag har är följande: ett konstitutionellt fördrag, en författning, är inte till för att det ska gå snabbt att fatta politiska beslut. den är tvärtom till för motsatsen, att det ska vara svårt att fatta politiska beslut. författningar finns för att se till att inte de som just nu råkar vara valda snabbt kan ta vilka beslut de vill. det ska vara krångligt. så ser den amerikanska författningen ut. detta är en fransk ämbetsmannatradition för att se till att en överhet snabbt kan besluta om allt mellan himmel och jord utan att behöva bry sig om folkligt inflytande. det är förfärande, detta är en skamfläck för eu.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission has proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the report gathers the opinions of the various committees on the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. the report welcomes the fact that parliament is gaining more influence over eu legislation. we have voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must prepare itself to be able to carry out the changes which will arise in the work of parliament if the treaty of lisbon enters into force. however, our votes should in no way be seen as pre-empting the ratification process of individual member states. we fully respect the right of each member state to decide for itself whether to ratify the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty, which coincides in 96% with the draft constitutional treaty, has been rejected in ireland as a result of the referendum. before that, the draft constitutional treaty was rejected by referendums in france and the netherlands. the majority of this parliament refuses to acknowledge its political losses. this is a shocking violation of democratic principles and an equally shocking example of the arrogance of the powers that make up european cooperation. the report by mr leinen on the new role of the european parliament welcomes the steps towards a united states of europe as envisaged by the lisbon treaty and the fact that the eu is now also to become involved in the field of education, including sport, among other things. it would have been desirable if the report had instead addressed the problem of the lack of democratic legitimacy of this parliament. we are again heading for an election with a very low turnout. the voters in the eu countries still feel little commitment to the super-centralist european parliament. as long as the political debate in representative democracy is focused on the elections to national parliaments, it should be the national parliaments, not the european parliament, which should be the highest decision-making political bodies within the union. i have voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on the financial aspects of the lisbon treaty, which deals with the budgetary process if the treaty of lisbon enters into force. we do not support the points in the report which call for the eu to have its own resources through taxation. we are also against the creation of flexibility funds.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty, which coincides in 96% with the draft constitutional treaty, has been rejected in ireland as a result of the referendum. before that, the draft constitutional treaty was rejected by referendums in france and the netherlands. the majority of this parliament refuses to acknowledge its political losses. this is a shocking violation of democratic principles and an equally shocking example of the arrogance of the powers that make up european cooperation. i do not think that the european parliament should have more influence on the eu budget. during my time in this parliament i have repeatedly noted how the federalist majority is generously willing to allocate funds for everything from cultural projects to structural aid and an expanded eu bureaucracy. the majority of meps believe that all the various special interests in regional policy, fisheries and agriculture should have a share of the eu's cake. in some cases, these are expenses that are pure pr gimmicks. the eu is pursuing this policy of generous spending at a time of financial crisis, when member states are having to cut spending on health, education and care. most importantly, it has been fortunate that the european parliament has not had too much influence on eu agricultural policy, otherwise the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to all the different groups in the agricultural sector. i have voted against the report.
in writing. - we moderates have today i voted in favour of hennis-plasschaert's report a6-0284/2009 on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for the application for international protection by third-country nationals or stateless persons. we are aware and understand that the large number of people arriving by boat across the mediterranean creates a difficult situation for some of the small countries on the southern sea border of the eu and agree that something must be done to resolve the situation. it is important that the so-called suspension mechanism is not designed in such a way as to risk removing the incentive for member states to raise the standards of the asylum process and reception, which is contrary to the basic idea of the common regulatory framework.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we are in favour of a generous common policy on asylum and migration, which puts human needs at the centre, in line with the commitments of the member states under the geneva conventions. although the 'asylum package' means that good steps are being taken, we chose to vote against the reports by hennis-plasschaert and masip hidalgo. we social democrats deplore the policy of the right-wing majority in the european parliament on asylum and migration. we are particularly opposed to the question of whether language information should not have to be given in a language they understand, whether detention should not have to be carried out within the framework of the geneva convention, whether medical examination to determine age should be required and whether free legal aid should be provided. we also regret that the right wing did not want to give asylum seekers the right to enter the labour market within six months.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the community should be able to conclude international agreements with third countries in certain fields. the same provisions prevent individual member states which have previously concluded bilateral agreements with third countries, or which wish to do so in the future, from doing so, as this is considered incompatible with the ec treaty. however, the eu may, in exceptional cases, authorise a member state to conclude bilateral agreements: if the community has no interest in an agreement with the third country, if the individual member state has a special interest in the agreement and if the agreement does not adversely affect community law. the junilist is in favour of the completion of the internal market and supports the search for solutions at eu level to the environmental challenges facing europe. in these areas we accept a certain degree of supranationality. however, we oppose the above-mentioned supranational legislative measure. of course, individual member states must be able to conclude bilateral legal agreements with third countries if they consider that such agreements are better for them than those at eu level! the fact that a small measure of self-determination is now being proposed, by introducing a negotiated procedure, is certainly good, but it is a small consolation that does not change the clear but unspoken objective of creating a european union state! i have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - an independent foreign policy is essential to the maintenance of national sovereignty; the external relations of each member state must be subject to democratic control. the eu should not pursue a common foreign policy, as such a development risks depriving the people of their ability to hold their elected politicians accountable for their actions in their relations with foreign countries. this report contains a number of important papers in support of specific aspects of human rights. i have of course voted in favour of these. the report as a whole is, however, a way of advancing the eu's foreign policy positions. that is why i voted against the final vote.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the report proposes that the additional members to be given to sweden and other member states when the lisbon treaty enters into force should be elected at the next european elections and then be given observer status in parliament. the report also proposes that the appointment of a new president of the commission be carried out in the spirit of the lisbon treaty. this means that the election of the president must reflect the political majority in the european parliament and that the choice of candidate must be preceded by discussions between the council and the political groups in the parliament. we have voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must prepare itself to be able to carry out the changes which will arise in the work of parliament if the treaty of lisbon enters into force. however, our votes should in no way be seen as pre-empting the ratification process of individual member states. we fully respect the right of each member state to decide for itself whether to ratify the treaty of lisbon.
the european parliament has also called for the european union to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the union. before that, the draft constitutional treaty was rejected by referendums in france and the netherlands. the majority of this parliament refuses to acknowledge its political losses this is a shocking violation of democratic principles and an equally shocking example of the arrogance of the powers that make up european cooperation. it is worth noting that paragraph 4 of the dehaene report states (quoted): 'the european parliament welcomes the fact that the treaty of lisbon provides that the european council, acting unanimously with parliament's consent and subject to the absence of any national parliamentary opposition, may extend the decision-making by qualified majority and the ordinary legislative procedure to new areas not yet covered.' the european parliament's federalist majority points to the possibility of making the union even more supranational under the lisbon treaty and transferring even more power to the eu without having to agree on a new treaty. i have voted against the report.
in writing. - parliament voted today on a report on the development of relations between the european parliament and national parliaments under the treaty of lisbon. this report welcomes the new powers given to national parliaments by the treaty of lisbon. the report also examines the future development of relations between the european parliament and national parliaments. we have voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must prepare itself to be able to carry out the changes which will arise in the work of parliament if the treaty of lisbon enters into force. however, our votes should in no way be seen as pre-empting the ratification process of individual member states. we fully respect the right of each member state to decide for itself whether to ratify the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty, which coincides in 96% with the draft constitutional treaty, has been rejected in ireland as a result of the referendum. before that, the draft constitutional treaty was rejected by referendums in france and the netherlands. the majority of this parliament refuses to acknowledge its political losses. this is a shocking violation of democratic principles and an equally shocking example of the arrogance of the powers that make up european cooperation. the brok report pays tribute to the convention which drew up a draft constitutional treaty. this convention has been strongly criticized for being completely undemocratic and dominated by its president, giscard d'estaing. in my view, the brok report should have concluded that as long as the political debate on representative democracy is focused on the elections to the national parliaments, it is the national parliaments, not the european parliament, which should be the highest political decision-making bodies within the union. i have voted against the report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european union's role in the world of work, calling on the commission to present a legislative proposal on the citizens' initiative as soon as the treaty of lisbon is ratified. the citizens' initiative allows one million people from a significant number of member states to take the initiative to call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal. this gives citizens the same right as the council to ask the commission to initiate legislative proposals. we have voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must prepare itself to be able to carry out the changes which will arise in the work of parliament if the treaty of lisbon enters into force. however, our votes should in no way be seen as pre-empting the ratification process of individual member states. we fully respect the right of each member state to decide for itself whether to ratify the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty, which coincides in 96% with the draft constitutional treaty, has been rejected in ireland as a result of the referendum. before that, the draft constitutional treaty was rejected by referendums in france and the netherlands. the majority of this parliament refuses to acknowledge its political losses. this is a shocking violation of democratic principles and an equally shocking example of the arrogance of the powers that make up european cooperation. kaufmann's report sells the skin before the bear is shot. it is exceptionally arrogant towards democracy and above all towards the irish people, who are once again being forced into a referendum because they voted 'wrong' according to the political establishment. there is no need at this stage to deal with this report in the european parliament. the citizens' initiative proposal is itself a very vague proposal for citizen influence vis-à-vis elected politicians. the latter can choose to ignore these initiatives altogether if it suits them. i have voted against the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my fellow citizens! i would like to congratulate all my colleagues on the confidence shown in you by the citizens of your respective member states. it is a great trust and therefore a great responsibility for all of us to respond to the expectations and demands of our citizens for the necessary changes and to build a people's europe. democracy, the right to elect your elected representatives, is the most important instrument our citizens have. to speak of a true democracy, it takes more than the right to vote. it requires openness, it requires publicity, and it requires an open debate. i would therefore say that it is extremely important that we now reform the first reading procedure. we must take parliament's confidence seriously and show the necessary transparency also in the first reading procedure. colleagues, we are facing major challenges: an economic crisis with rising unemployment, increased exclusion and social insecurity. we have a climate crisis that has already created climate refugees. as usual, the poorest are hit first and hardest. we see a european union and a world of injustice and poverty. there are, however, political solutions to these crises, but this requires a change in policy. the policies pursued so far have not solved the problems we are responsible for solving. on the contrary, it has contributed to the crisis in many areas. we need a change in policy. we need a policy for a social europe, a policy which promotes the rights of workers against social dumping. we need policies to prevent social exclusion and poverty. we need a policy that embraces the participation of all citizens. we need a policy that does not discriminate against any citizen, whether we are talking about ethnicity, disability, gender, age or sexual orientation. i want to see a european union that defends the interests of all its citizens. i want to see a policy that creates new jobs - new, green jobs. investments in green technologies are needed which besides creating the necessary new jobs also contribute to growth and tackle climate change, which is one of the most important tasks for humanity and for europe. i want to see an eu that takes its responsibility for fair and responsible international trade. i want to see an eu with a humane asylum and immigration policy, which protects immigrants and their rights. i want to see a europe of diversity. that's how we create progress. i want to see a europe of diversity, where we protect every citizen. i want to see a europe, an eu, that takes its responsibility for human rights. when our human rights are being suppressed, no matter where in the world it happens, we can never, ever, compromise. these rights are inviolable. it's every man for himself. whether it is freedom of expression, publicity, privacy, etc., human rights are inviolable. it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to stand up for human rights wherever they are threatened in the world. i welcome the president's statement that the june elections increased the representation of women in parliament. this has been possible thanks to the joint efforts of both men and women. we have worked together to increase the representation of women. now we take it one step further. we are now also making sure that women's influence is increased in the areas of trust that parliament and the other eu institutions have. now we have the opportunity. together, my friends and colleagues, we can show our citizens in europe that we are taking responsibility and show how a modern society of diversity is emerging. today, each of you has the power over the ballot. you have the power today to send a strong signal to our citizens that we are now building a people's europe, a social europe, to show both our citizens and the world that the eu is ready to take on its responsibility for global justice, for human rights and for global environmental responsibility, and to show the power we have with our ballot paper to send the signal that the citizens of europe expect from this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank you.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? first, let me congratulate you all collectively on your election as team leader. i know that several of you have been elected with very strong support. i know, for example, that martin schulz was re-elected with very strong support in the socialist group. it is important to be able to represent their respective groups strongly. i very much welcome the dialogue we have had and the consultations which the european council at its june meeting instructed me to open. it was done by the eu minister cecilia malmström. i have also done so myself, both by telephone and in the meeting we had on an archipelago boat when we were moving through the waters of stockholm and then sat down to discuss the situation. i had been asked to examine the possibility of electing josé manuel barroso, nominated by the european council, as president of the commission for a second term. several of the issues you touched upon are the main issues we want to work on during the swedish presidency. let me just say we're putting the job first. we want to see a europe where more people have jobs. the debate must be based on how to achieve it. i think, as joseph daul pointed out, it is about innovation and education, that is, what basically drives entrepreneurship and enables employability. i think martin schulz is right that we should be careful not to have a europe where we compete on bad terms. we have that discussion in sweden, and we have it all over europe. it is not a good starting point to try to meet competition with low or no pay, but we want to meet future competition on good terms. let me mention a few other things that i think are very important in order to manage europe through the crisis. i have seen how the commission - and i think it is important - has had to defend the principle of the single market at a time when many are trying to use it to bring in protectionism. it is so easy to listen to those who say, "why didn't you save jobs in this particular country?" without seeing the consequences of everyone doing the same. we would then basically shut down free trade and the possibility of cross-border trade. the very thing that has created wealth and prosperity would be lost very quickly if we did not in this way resist the calls for protectionism. i believe that safeguarding the single market and free movement is an important starting point for safeguarding jobs. i also believe very much in what has been mentioned by several of you, such as investing in people's skills and ensuring that there is mobility in the labour market. i believe, for example, that free movement, including across borders, is one way of dealing with this. i think, as martin schultz, rebecca harms and joseph daul have mentioned, that this is also the opportunity to meet this with a green development, to bring about the low-emission economies that we talk about all over the world as a way out of the crisis as well. it is important how we manage funding and how we invest. i would also like to say - i agree with guy verhofstadt on this point - that our swedish experience of our crisis management in the 1990s was not to think that this would be a good way to lose control of public finances. i've learned that when the deficits get big and when it comes to cleanup, it's the people with the lowest margins and the people who are most dependent on welfare institutions that get left behind. so a policy that is prudent about public finances is a good policy for people who are poor or who live on the fringes. as regards the climate issue, which will be our main subject of work before the copenhagen summit, i would like to say that it is true that there is still a lot to be done. we're running out of time. i would like to say to rebecca harms that it is unusual for us in sweden to be criticised for our aid commitments. in europe, the average is 0.4 percent of gross national income. sweden is quite unique in that one percent of our gross national income goes to development aid. for me, these questions are interrelated. we have had our own review, led by our minister of aid, in the framework of the un's efforts. we have analysed exactly how we have to think about climate change in our development work. it is not possible to pursue development without also seeing the climate change and how it is already affecting poor parts of our planet. so we cannot separate development policy from climate policy, but they are interrelated and must work together. i would like to say to mr schulz, on the subject of the treaty, that my role is to ensure that there is effective european leadership in a difficult time. we must be able to deliver answers to the citizens who want to see us act on the financial crisis and on climate issues. we are all politically active and we know that in the political environment, where we become introverted and discuss names and leadership, our citizens perceive it as if we have turned our backs on them. we're looking inward. that's why i do what i can in my role. i have been instructed by the european council to ensure that our cooperation and our respect for the integrity of the european parliament are combined by being clear - this applies both in the form of the treaties of nice and lisbon - and nominating a candidate for the post of president of the commission. as for josé manuel barroso, it is important to note that he had unanimous support in the european council, that he was well known as a candidate and presented to the electorate even before the elections. that made it easier for me to act, of course, with respect for the fact that the european parliament will have the opportunity, when you consider yourself ready to take a decision, to say yes or no to the nominee of the european council. in the meantime, there is time for discussions, as i know josé manuel barroso has also stated, and for the kind of conversation about how european policy should develop in the coming years. i hope that this can now be reconciled in accordance with the agreement that has been reached. that is what the voters of europe now expect, and that is how we can act strongly together.
president of the commission. - mr president, important questions have been raised, and i shall try to answer them very briefly. first, the important question by mr schulz on the treaties. it recalled in particular the role of the commission as guardian of the treaties. the commission does indeed believe that the existing treaties must be respected. the treaty in force is the treaty of nice. you were elected under the treaty of nice, all of you sitting here. the president of the commission, if elected now, will be elected as you are, in accordance with the treaty of nice, of course. that said, we are going to have - i hope - the treaty of lisbon. the necessary adjustments will have to be made to the composition of parliament, which will no longer be the same as under the lisbon treaty, since there will be certain adjustments, and the same will have to be done for the commission. nevertheless, in all respects, the european council respected your report - the dehaene report - which was approved by an overwhelming majority. the european council, before formalising its decision, held consultations which also took into account - and this is a first - the result of the european elections, not to mention the fact that there was a candidate supported by a political force. the next step is to obtain the investiture of the european parliament. i would like to repeat today what i said in a letter to the president of the european parliament: i am ready to discuss the content of the guidelines for the next commission with all the political groups who are willing to do so. at any rate, institutionally, that is my position. i would like to stress one very important point from a political point of view. i think it is important to link the election of the president of the commission to the democratic election that has taken place, your election. you were elected under the treaty of nice and it seems to me that the president of the commission should also have the legitimacy which, in a certain sense, must result from this democratic election. moreover, in view of the economic and financial crisis - and i think those who support a strong europe and who want a strong commission will probably agree - the presidency of the commission should not be suspended now, pending the final ratification of the lisbon treaty, which we all - at least the majority of us - want, even though we do not know when that treaty will come into force. to suspend the european commission and its presidency in the midst of an economic, financial and social crisis, when very important negotiations are waiting for us in copenhagen, does not seem to me to be very sensible. in any case, it is for the european parliament to decide and i am ready to engage in a democratic debate as i did five years ago. on the second question about finance and the economy and what mr verhofstadt said: we can all have more ambition, and on that matter let me tell you that i share your ambition. but we cannot say that we did not adopt a european economic recovery plan, and that was the maximum that our member states accepted. the european commission proposed more, but that was what our member states accepted. i want to draw your attention to the fact that some member states no less influential at the beginning of this crisis suggested not to have a coordination plan. some others suggested a fiscal stimulus of 1%, and the european commission came immediately to the proposal of 1.5%, and in fact the automatic stabilizers were around 5%. apart from that, we took those important decisions in terms of balance-of-payment support to some non-euro-area members and also some initiatives at global level. so you can count on the commission to do everything we can do to reinforce the european level and a common approach, let us have no ambiguity about it. but, also, let's be honest with ourselves: we are not the united states of america we are not an integrated nation state so of course we have different situations. you can't ask germany and latvia to do the same thing. we have countries in europe that are under balance-of-payment support, so of course we cannot have a one-size-fits-all approach. we have to have a common approach but with specific national responses, because that is the reality we are facing in europe and will face in the near future. we have mainly national budgets. so i share your approach to have a more coordinated european plan, namely to get out of this crisis and to build this kind of smart green growth we want; but at the same time we have to accept that we have 27 national budgets, we have 27 finance ministers, we have 27 national banks apart from our european central bank, and it is very important to strengthen the euro and to have economic policies and financial policies that are sustainable. if not, we will put the euro, one of the great successes of european integration, at risk. finally, on the question of climate change, once again we can always have more ambition. but for me it was very important that prime minister reinfeldt was with me recently in l'aquila, when we heard the secretary-general of the united nations say: 'you are the locomotive of the world'. we can always have more ambition, but the european union is leading the fight against climate change in the world. nobody is being more ambitious than we are, so of course i would expect at least a word of recognition in terms of the work done by this commission, together with our member states, to put forward ambitious proposals. let us now try to convince others, because we need others because the problem of climate change is not just a european problem, it is a problem for our planet. with your support i believe we can achieve success at the copenhagen conference. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a swede, i am proud to listen to the swedish presidency's priorities and to welcome the prime minister of sweden back here once again. the challenges we face are quite significant. we have 20 years of wonderful miraculous transformation of europe behind us, which has led to the fact that today we have one of the early representatives of the solidarity movement for freedom as the president of the european parliament. it's the ideals of democracy, freedom, the rule of law, the market economy that have given us 20 years of amazing development. we are now living in a new era of change, with a new treaty, the climate issue requiring a coherent policy that can have a global impact and the economic crisis. it is important that we have a presidency, but also a parliament, which is able to ensure that we have stability in public finances, stability in the internal market and stability in the opening up of trade and cross-border movement which can help us to get out of the crisis. i would like to take perspective a step further. the decisions we are now laying the foundations for through the swedish presidency and in this parliament will also determine what europe and the european union will look like after the crisis - what dynamics we will have in the financial markets and what confidence and credibility they will have and what space we will have for innovation and entrepreneurship, for investment and new jobs. if there is one thing that the european elections have shown, it is that europe's citizens want less bureaucracy and regulation and more openness across borders and out to the world. it is this openness that will be crucial to europe's ability to be a leading force for the values that 20 years ago began to transform europe and with which we can contribute to the world. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank the swedish prime minister for presenting what he and his government want to do in the next six months. we know that the starting point is difficult, the crisis is deep. it is about jobs, it is about dramatically widening disparities, it is about a generation of young people going straight into unemployment and it is of course about the environmental and climate crisis. this has also been described by prime minister fredrik reinfeldt, but what is surprising are the conclusions. the central issue for the swedish presidency is not jobs or investment, but the ability of the member states to maintain budgetary discipline. the swedish presidency's clearest message is budgetary discipline, as we are approaching 27 million unemployed in the eu. it's bad, and it's also disturbing. here, reinfeldt's party - contrary to what has been said here - has a historically heavy domestic political baggage to carry. the previous conservative swedish government led sweden into an economic collapse, and it was a social democratic government that had to spend ten years to clean up public finances. but old domestic shortcomings cannot be allowed to determine the agenda for the whole of the eu at a time when we are in a serious crisis. what is needed is major investment in jobs, education and green transition, not budgetary discipline to put anorexic economies on a hunger strike. the secretary-general of the european trade union confederation, john monks, has also expressed concern at the low priority given to the social dimension in the swedish presidency. mostly pretty words, monks says, very little real plans. we feel the same concern in my group and this also includes the trade union rights of employees, as martin schulz explained in his speech. following the laval judgment and the viking, rüffert and luxembourg judgments, the conditions of employees have deteriorated. their rights have been weakened. what my group and i want from the swedish presidency is a concrete commitment to the restoration of full trade union rights for eu workers. trade union rights must take precedence over freedom of movement. it must be very clear. we do not want to live in a europe where the crisis is met with budgetary discipline and confrontation. i would like to ask the new president, prime minister fredrik reinfeldt, whether this question is on the agenda at all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. congratulations on your appointment. i would first like to commend the government for its sincere commitment to the baltic sea, and i hope that we will make progress in this area. you also have a surprisingly good climate rhetoric. what i'm looking for now is, of course, climate science as well. you often talk about europe and sweden being responsible for a small share of the world's emissions, but if we are only eight percent of the world's population in the eu countries, and we emit 30 percent, then it is also our responsibility to take a big part of the climate work seriously. this is where i lack the concrete questions. how do you proceed with the ippc directive on industrial emissions? how are you doing with illegal logging? how do you go about setting energy efficiency standards for buildings and how do you go about airlines not being able to continue to emit and not have to pay the 14 billion euros in energy taxes that they should be paying? i would also like to mention the stockholm programme and the acta. as regards acta, we must ensure that there is transparency. the german constitutional court has said that the länder must have more influence, that the parliaments must have more influence. we need transparency in the acta negotiations. we can't go one-sided against surveillance. the same goes for my hometown, and the stockholm program. let it be a name associated with the eu's transition from terrorist paranoia to human rights and freedoms and with the strengthening of the right to asylum and the protection of privacy. well, then, we've succeeded in that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate the president-in-office and thank him for the interesting exchanges of views we had during the election period. mr. prime minister and colleagues! i thank you for the presentation of the presidency's programme. i am convinced that the swedish presidency will be a great success in terms of organisation and that it will be managed very well by the competent swedish administration. politically, of course, i share the presidency's view of the two major crises - the economic crisis and the climate crisis - and these are the priority issues, of course. but what i lack is analysis. the economic crisis and the climate crisis are not predetermined destiny. the crisis is rooted in political decisions. this is positive because it means that we can also solve crises by political decisions, but i am missing a different, changed policy from the presidency. it is the same economic policy that does not take social or environmental considerations into account. what i share with many of the citizens is the lack of the programme in the area of workers' rights, which has been the focus since the court's judgments, and the social issues, for which we have no answers. nor have we heard anything about the well-known progressive gender equality policy. the stockholm programme is said to create security, but in practice it is a control society that is emerging, which threatens personal privacy. we can never accept restrictions on asylum or that our civil and civil rights are restricted in this programme. we demand a humane policy on asylum and immigration.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the council! good to see you here! the challenges are many in these stormy times: a severe economic downturn, the uncertainty surrounding the lisbon treaty and the negotiations ahead of the copenhagen climate summit. you have work to do. mr. prime minister, a few key points. you also have to convince your colleagues in the council that protectionism is an abomination. the strength of the eu is open borders and free trade. government subsidies to save the auto industry is not the answer. the financial crisis is calling for a global new order, but the regulatory framework must be balanced without over-regulation. this autumn, as some have said here, the eu must come a step closer to a decent asylum policy. energy policy, as some have said, requires both realism and solidarity. no more gas crises, no more one-sided addiction. the internet was a big issue in the election campaign. sweden has a great responsibility here in bringing the so-called telecommunications package to the port. the rule of law shall also apply in the virtual world. i had hoped that during this part-session parliament would approve the appointment of josé manuel barroso as president of the commission for a new five-year term. i'm sorry, but that's not gonna happen. this is not the time for the eu to engage in institutional power struggles. now is the time for political leadership and action. the euro has shown its strength. when does the prime minister think we in sweden are ready to become full members of the eu and to have the euro in our pockets as well? thank you, and as we say in my party: good luck with that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, i am very happy and proud to see my government in the swedish presidency and i also think that there is a lot of good in the programme in terms of solving the climate jobs, the financial crisis, the copenhagen conference, the baltic sea strategy, community policy, enlargement, iceland, croatia, turkey, etc. but i thought i saw another issue, an important issue for the future, namely open europe, integrity and freedom of expression. today the ministers are meeting in stockholm to discuss the stockholm programme. the good news is that this is the strategy for the legislation that is now being drawn up. there are elements of the proposals that we have longed for. i hope that the european convention on human rights will finally be ratified. children's rights and victims' rights. there is something very good to be done about this, but there are also disadvantages, namely the threat to the open society that is contained in the stockholm programme. threats to the open society must be countered with the methods of the open society. some of the elements of the stockholm programme are neither liberal, nor humane, nor forward-looking. the recording of our travels, the mass storage of personal data and the systematic recording of financial transactions are neither liberal, tolerant nor forward-looking. let stockholm stand for openness, freedom and tolerance. no recording, surveillance or intolerance. i think that our work in strasbourg should be stopped.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! if we want to have a good international climate agreement, we have to listen to other countries. if we realize that we need, firstly, the eu and other countries to take greater responsibility for reducing our emissions at home, and secondly, the eu and other member states to give concrete expression to how we will contribute financially to the climate action of poorer countries. the swedish government's opposition to this has unfortunately undermined the prospects for a good agreement in copenhagen. the council of ministers must also recognize this, and i would therefore like to ask the following two questions: is the swedish presidency prepared to contribute to a good international climate agreement by doing more of the eu's emission reductions at home? when will concrete proposals be made for financing climate action in poor countries?
mr president, i would like to thank you. congratulations on your appointment. i would also like to thank fredrik reinfeldt for an excellent review and presentation. we all now expect great things to happen in copenhagen, even though this too should be emphasized as an international event. expectations are really high, but i dare say that if all the groups are not satisfied with the result, the world will not end for that reason. the economic crisis has been brought to the fore here, of course. the big corporations, the big companies always get the attention. i would like to stress that the small loyal subcontractors must not be forgotten when financial matters are on the agenda. i would also like to emphasise the concrete values of the baltic sea strategy. i believe that the baltic sea strategy can be a boost to the legitimacy of the eu as a whole. europe's largest inland sea can and must be saved. the baltic sea strategy can also help to curb the development of crime and trafficking. this is also an important environmental issue which may be said to require its copenhagen meeting. i am glad that the work on a border solution between croatia and slovenia is timely and that the cyprus question will also be resolved. we all want that. we will also, i think, eventually see the nordic countries enlarged here in the eu with iceland and, i suspect, also in the not too distant future with norway. president barack obama gave a very extraordinary speech in africa about africa the other day. i have reason to be proud of sweden's efforts and i hope that we can continue to raise the banner of solidarity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we can only say that we are in a crisis situation without precedent. a coherent and active policy is therefore needed not only to save the jobs that can be saved, but also to help those who are out of work to re-enter the labour market. education will be enormously important. the automotive industry is the engine of the european economy and it is important that decisions are taken on the basis of long-term objectives for the development of a sustainable european automotive industry. there will be different offers on how the distribution of redundancy and notice will be done. if one in five jobs in the opel group is to disappear, it will be an incredible strain on both the people and the communities affected, regardless of the country. i hope therefore that the process has gone right and that multinational companies have not been allowed to pit countries against countries in the tendering procedure and thus pit workers against workers. the european response to the crisis must be coordinated and balanced. it is also important that trade unions are involved and can participate in the process in an active and effective way. it is also important that the commission and parliament follow developments closely. research and development will be a key issue for the future of the automotive industry, and not just for opel, but for all car manufacturers throughout europe.
mr president, it is a great joy for me to take the floor for the first time in this plenary to commend minister tobias billström for his deep understanding – and, as an italian national originally, i am in a position to say that – of the grave situation facing the mediterranean people and countries. i would like to welcome his efforts to reach a consensus for a common european migration policy, which is very much needed. i would also like to welcome his initiative for the asylum support officer, which is a very practical and concrete way to support member states who feel burdened and to start cooperation among member states. i would like to ask minister billström if, other than the measures he has already talked about, he could maybe elaborate further, from a long-term point of view, about what measures we can take to support the mediterranean countries and people, with his approach, which balances humanity, solidarity and firmness against any form of illegality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, councilman billström. i wonder if we don't sometimes fixate a little too much on the word illegal immigration. however, it cannot be illegal to flee for your life, because human rights and freedoms apply to everyone, regardless of where they live. i would like to stress that it must also be urgent to keep track of the situation in the countries from which people are fleeing. perhaps the eu could do more, do more in those countries, so that people don't leave and then be called illegal refugees. maybe we're too fixated, as i said, on the word illegal. as i said, it was legal to stand up for human rights and freedoms both inside and outside the eu.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. again, my congratulations on the mission. transparency, democracy and pluralism are the watchwords of the eu and of parliament, but they must never be turned into symbolism. unfortunately, these words sometimes turn out to be just beautiful eulogies. in reality, agreements are made behind closed doors. we therefore need a different way of working in parliament, one in which we open up the work and the decisions in a true, genuinely democratic spirit. we need an open working method for all political groups and all members. if not even all members of the european parliament feel involved and transparent about their work, how can we expect our citizens to feel involved and to trust our work and to vote in elections? new technology in all its glory we need it for information but we must not forget the most important elements for participation. it's democracy and openness. we are living in a financial crisis and an environmental and climate crisis. i should also like to remind you that we have trade agreements which sometimes exacerbate the problems of food supply and poverty in the world. in the left's view, the solution to the crises is not to continue with the same policies that have sometimes been a contributing factor in creating them. the citizens of europe need a different policy. they deserve a different policy. a policy that puts the needs of the people first, and not, as today, the needs of the market first. one way to start the change of policy in the right direction is to end privatisation and deregulation of public activities. indeed, the market has failed to meet people's needs for work, social rights, and so on. we have to face the consequences. this is democracy we're talking about. democracy also requires that our liberties and civil rights never be curtailed. we have a whole range of proposals today for further surveillance of our citizens. freedom of expression must also apply on the internet. the eu and its citizens therefore need a different policy for a fairer and more united society. we in the gue/ngl are ready, and we gladly take up our responsibility, to work together to build a fairer and more united europe and a fairer and better world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr barroso, in your introduction you said that europe and the world are suffering from a crisis of values. why not speak plainly? what we have suffered is a crisis of extreme market thinking, of which you and your party group are the main representatives. i have promised my constituents that i will not vote for you - and so have many other social democrats - unless you guarantee that the posting of workers directive is amended to strengthen the rights of employees. now i hear you trying to sound as if you have met that demand. but, you say, not by amending the directive but by means of a new regulation which we know is completely inadequate. i also hear that you are giving a wrong picture of the consequences of this amended posting directive. you've been asked this question before and you've been wrong every time. now, i'd like to ask you again: will you act to change the posting of workers directive so that eu workers receive equal pay for equal work throughout the eu, instead of the wage dumping we all suffer from today across europe?
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe is today a continent of peace and democracy. this was not the case 70 years ago - when europe was at war. nor was it so 20 years ago - when europe was divided into east and west. our generation has a responsibility to manage our continent and preserve and strengthen an open and democratic europe. josé manuel barroso you have a special responsibility! europe needs clear leadership and an eu that is visible and present to the citizens of europe in good times and bad. we need a leadership that listens. you're gonna have to do more here. i want to see more of today's commitment, more of the barroso we see here today. tomorrow you will have the support of the people's party the swedish liberals cecilia malmström's party. not because we agree with you on everything, but because we believe you can do more than you've shown so far. a few guidelines for your future work: protectionism is an abomination even to an old maoist. the strength of the eu is open borders and free trade! human rights apply to everyone, everywhere! you're gonna have to do more here. the economic crisis calls for a new global order with a balanced regulatory framework that makes it possible to overcome the climate crisis. free europe's farmers, and give consumers and the market a chance! the eu does not need more institutional power struggles. save us from it! europe has had enough of llama ducks. the commission is not prepared to do that. i hope that tomorrow you will have the opportunity to form a new commission. i hope that you will then ensure that there are as many women as men in the new commission.
madam president, mr barroso will have our support tomorrow. not only because you are nominated by all 27 member states, mr barroso, and not only because we need to start work, but also because you have presented a broad political agenda that addresses the main challenges of our time. of course, we all have different views on that. we will call on initiatives from you and your commission based upon the majority of this parliament, not by trying to impose minority positions, and we will discuss and scrutinise your proposals and take decisions based upon the majority of this parliament. that is how democracy works, and that is how we work. we are confident not only in you, but also in this parliament. just let me say that voting ‘no’ tomorrow without an alternative means that you do not have an alternative. at the same time as we are calling for action, there are those who want to stop the action. and i must say that with only weeks to go until the copenhagen meeting, it is not responsible to act in such a way that we shall not have a leadership in place for the commission. at a time when we need to deal with all the arrangements and legislation on financial markets, the alternative of saying ‘no’ to a new commission is not responsible. and to act in a way that we cannot start the political process for economic recovery when jobs are threatened all over europe is not responsible. madam president, this vote tomorrow is very much a vote about the standing of the european parliament. we, as parliamentarians, are saying that we want europe to have leadership in the world, but we can never have global leadership if we cannot ensure leadership of the european union. we will give you our support, and we will scrutinise the proposals, and we will discuss with you, because we have confidence in democracy and the majority we have in this parliament. good luck tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is very gratifying that the environment is a top priority in the new baltic sea strategy. the baltic sea suffers from two major acute environmental problems. one, the fertilisation, has already been taken up by satu hassi. the second problem is overfishing. all scientists agree on that. relatively new knowledge says that the lack of top predators, namely cod, has worsened algal blooms further. the problem is that the baltic sea needs a healthy ecosystem. it would therefore be very good if, within the framework of the new baltic sea strategy, a pilot project, a so-called fast track project, on regional fisheries management in the baltic sea were set up. we would also have to introduce a dumping ban on cod with immediate effect. today, large quantities of the newly arrived cod are being dumped into the baltic sea. i call on the swedish presidency to heed my call and address this problem.
madam president, today we in the epp say to the people of bosnia, of albania and of serbia: you are not forgotten; we have not abandoned you. we understand, especially to the people of sarajevo, your frustration. but at the same time we say to the people of the european union, we will not bend the benchmarks. the rules have to be the same for everybody. your security is important for us. mainly we say to the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina: take your responsibilities; put your house in order; do your homework. we appreciate the progress that has been achieved recently. we will ask the commission to continue to support you but if i have learned anything in my six years of the wars and peace in the balkans, and believe me this is an issue very close to my heart, victimism, the blame game and scapegoating belong to the past. this is an issue of european integration. we have to look at this from a european perspective and, as mrs cecilia malmström said, the best way to start the u-turn that is needed to go from dependence and victimism is for them to take the country into their hands, and to start those visa reforms which are badly needed and necessary anyway. i hope we can agree on a clear message to the authorities in the region that we will support them but we will not compromise on the security of our citizens – that they have to take their responsibilities. i think we should support the commission proposal, and, to those who think that this could be destabilising, i would like to say that stability will come with european integration. it is very unfortunate that passports are issued in zagreb and in belgrade, and we should definitely try to reduce that as much as possible but we cannot make different rules for the bosnian people. it is not in their interest. what we can do is to do our part in this parliament to accelerate the process and make a decision, make our policy so that the council can take a decision within this year.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think that at this stage of the debate there is no longer any doubt about the importance of visa liberalisation for the citizens of the balkans. freedom of movement, together with education, is perhaps the most important instrument we can offer to the new generations, from whom we expect a strong commitment to the democratization process throughout the region. that is why i welcome the proposal for visa liberalisation for serbia, macedonia and montenegro. the progress of each country on the path to the eu is a progress for the whole of the balkans. some of these countries have had to wait a long time, some perhaps even unnecessarily long. we in the european parliament and the two countries which are still not covered by visa liberalisation should draw some lessons from this. although this is a very sensitive political issue, i would nevertheless point out that the rules for visa liberalisation are clear and universal for everyone. they must be fulfilled. but let us not politicize the matter any more than is necessary. let us see what remains to be done and how we can ensure that bosnia and herzegovina and albania too can soon join the family of visa-free countries as soon as possible. bosnia and herzegovina has made significant progress in recent days and is close to meeting most of the remaining requirements of the roadmap. i would therefore urge the actors in bosnia and herzegovina to adopt the anti-corruption act as soon as possible and to establish rules for the exchange of information between the various elements of the police. i also urge them to ensure that this work is completed, preferably by the end of september, before reporting to the commission. i expect the commission, in turn, to assess in a new analysis the actual progress made and, after the eu's requirements have been met, to propose to the council that it should decide on visa liberalisation for bosnia and herzegovina. hopefully it can come into force in july 2010.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. it's not about ideology. it's about the equal value of all human beings, i mean. i would also like to thank both the commission and the council for their unusually clear positions. i am convinced that parliament, the commission and the council are now acting together in this violation of fundamental values. we are talking about the eu and the respect of fundamental human rights by the eu. this must also apply to all our different member states. in practice, this bill means that all information on lgbt issues is at risk of becoming illegal. imagine the idea of suddenly being banned from fighting for the equal value of all people regardless of sexual orientation. the bill is clearly an attack on human rights. i'm not going to count how many of the human rights that violates. i just want to say this in a nutshell: all support for this resolution. i hope that parliament will be as united as possible in supporting this resolution when we vote tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to thank you. all men are born equal and possess the same inviolable value. that is why parliament must speak clearly today about the citizens of europe, regardless of which member state we are talking about. as the eu's fundamental values are tolerance, openness and freedom, it is gratifying that the newly elected president of the commission has today made it clear that he will appoint a commissioner with a portfolio that will include human rights and fundamental freedoms. today we note with sadness how particularly regrettable it is that a country like lithuania - which once experienced oppression and dictatorship - now as a free and independent country has passed a law that is so abhorrent and that implies censorship, intolerance and intolerance. now all of us who stand for democratic principles and a good humanism must forcefully condemn this lithuanian law and we must vote tomorrow. let us also in this chamber remind each other that the greatest of all is love.
replacement of the questioner. thank you very much, madam minister! i know that this is a very important issue and we in sweden have been pushing this issue forward, as has the eu, in recent years. i would just like to point out that i think it is very unfortunate that we, the members of the european parliament, are not able to attend the conference on 19 and 20 october because we are here in strasbourg and cannot be in brussels to attend this important conference. i'm sorry, but that's the situation. i also know that the swedish presidency has said that it wants to raise the issue of the exploitation of children in the context of tourism and travel. it was intended to do so at a conference on 20 november, when the permanent intergovernmental working party on europe for children is to meet, but now i have heard that the presidency will not be taking up the matter. why would you do that? will you do it another time?
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is, of course, unacceptable that people in europe can lose their energy supply in the middle of winter, or that people are forced into unemployment because the industries in which they work cannot afford to pay the high energy prices and are therefore forced to lay off people or simply have to shut down their businesses. so it is vital that we make wise decisions to safeguard our energy supply. at the same time, the requirements for the large infrastructure projects required must be unambiguous in terms of both environmental impact and country independence. member states must not be put in a position where they risk being subject to the arbitrariness of another state. environmental impact assessments must be carried out by reliable and independent bodies before large projects are allowed to start. this applies, of course, to all the major projects identified, but i would like to mention in particular the baltic sea, which is a large and sensitive inland sea. analyses and decisions are needed to ensure that the baltic sea does not become a dead sea because we in the european parliament have not been sufficiently long-term and demanding in our decisions. we owe it to our children and grandchildren.
in writing. - we are fully aware that the situation of dairy farmers is unsustainable. however, we are equally aware and convinced that eu intervention is not the answer. the time is now ripe for a transition to a market-based insurance system that relieves farmers without disturbing either the domestic or the global market. it is also high time to review the competitive situation in the large-scale intervention industry and the almost equally large-scale food industry which lies between the farmer and the consumer.
in writing. - we the socialists have decided to abstain from voting on amendment no 1. access to documents and negotiating directives by the european parliament and national parliaments for the negotiations with the us authorities on access to payment data is of the utmost importance for democratic control. european citizens must be able to trust that the transfer of their banking data is not in breach of national or eu law. at the same time, we recognise the importance of being able to investigate terrorist offences effectively in the future, but not at any democratic price.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. for the vast majority of europe-haters, the result from ireland was a message of joy. we are now, as many have said, getting a more democratic and open europe. the irish have now done their part to bring the eu out of its constitutional crisis. it's about the rest of us now. i think there were several reasons which spoke in favour of the eu this time. alone is not strong when the world is in a storm. i think we can all agree on that. the doubts about the treaty have been dispelled, but i also believe that there was an old historical argument involved. ireland does not want to be associated with the british criticism of the eu. dublin is not london! some have said that you cannot have more than one referendum. with that logic, you might say that you can't have an election more than once. for most of us here, it's good that people - maybe even some of the colleagues here - can change their minds if the conditions change. that's why we have democracy, why we vote multiple times. now it is poland and the czech republic's turn to ratify the treaty. i don't think poland is a problem. it could be worse with mr. klaus in prague. he seems stubborn. he expressed his disbelief in the lisbon treaty very clearly in this house this spring - if not with sulphur, then certainly with ointment. we now know that this is a very sensitive issue in the uk. if there is a change of government in london next spring - which some are calling for - the eu risks facing a new round of voting on ratification of the treaty, if the czech process is prolonged or if a referendum is called for. i was going to ask the swedish prime minister, but he is not here. he has a good relationship with david cameron. i hope he will use those relationships and make sure that we have a better eu debate not just in europe but also in the uk. we need a strong... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister malmström, i would like to thank you for your report. i am a member of the committee on fisheries and visited guinea myself last december, so i have followed this matter very closely. first of all, i find it remarkable that the european union is maintaining its fisheries agreement with guinea, since the agreement was concluded with the former regime two weeks before the coup. we have actually been holding on to an agreement that we have made with a legal regime, but now we have a military dictatorship. we have been holding on to this all year. us secretary of state hillary clinton went out yesterday and openly called for moussa dadis camara and his regime to step down. i can only agree with this minimum requirement and would also point out that it would be a disgrace to the european parliament if we voted in two weeks' time for a fisheries agreement with guinea which would provide this regime with over one million euros by the end of november. the fisheries agreement covers tuna fishing for 25 european vessels. i think it is quite obvious that these boats will have to look elsewhere for other fishing waters. the eu cannot do business with dictatorships that slaughter their own people in the open. the argument that the money from the fisheries agreement would go to the people, which the commission made in the committee on development and fisheries, is completely false. this is shown by an evaluation carried out by the commission of the previous agreement. you have no idea where the money from these fisheries agreements goes. that was the old regime. i find it hard to believe that the present regime would do any better with the money. i wonder what the council of ministers is going to do about the fisheries agreement. will the eu join the us in demanding the regime's downfall?
mr president, i would like to thank you. a long time ago, the famous swedish writer august strindberg put it this way: you have the power, i have the word, i have the word in my power. however, this is not the case today for the writers and journalists in italy who are systematically denied the right to free expression. in the last three years, 200 journalists have been threatened because of their written words. but what happens in italy concerns us all. freedom of speech, of the press and of the press is a fundamental right of all europe's 500 million citizens. what is happening in italy shows that free speech is sometimes more dangerous than weapons for a regime that has seized power over free speech. today parliament has a unique opportunity to show and bring out our very best. we're showing the world that fundamental freedoms are at stake. italy's cause is ours too.
madam president, i have two comments on the recent voting on the g-20 summit in pittsburgh. i regret, and i think it is deplorable, that there is so little on solving the climate crisis in this resolution and also in the material from the g-20 summit. there is also mention of the tobin tax, which i think might be a new way of financing both development aid and helping developing countries when it comes to climate issues. the reason why i did not vote ‘yes’ to the amendments is because they were phrased in a very old-fashioned way, as though we were having a discussion on the tobin tax 20 years ago. the modern way of discussing whether this is a new financing source for the united nations aims at something different, and i hope to come back to this in the chamber later.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats, have decided to abstain because we believe that it is for the member states themselves to decide which authorities are to be considered competent in consultation procedures, that the involvement of eurojust should be complementary and secondary to that of the member states, and that the agency's mandate should in no way be extended by this decision. however, many points in parliament's report improve the draft framework decision. it is important, not only for national authorities but especially for those who are suspects or accused, that there are clear time limits, procedural guarantees and other protection mechanisms.
in writing. − i decided to abstain on the final vote. although in the block vote there are some good amendments on human rights (e.g. amendments 6 and 15), there are also amendments which move member state competences to eurojust (e.g. amendments 3, 9, 16, 17 and 18). i believe that these should remain with member states.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the resolution on the g20. however, we have voted against the introduction of a financial transaction tax because it is counterproductive to the capital formation of poor countries and is an obstacle to the development and growth that has lifted countries and people out of poverty over the last 30 years. we are also opposed to the creation of an employment fund to compensate for the fluctuations in the international economy, because it risks preserving old and outdated structures and thus hindering the growth and development of new jobs. this would require the introduction of an international system of taxation and distribution without democratic control and with obvious risks of corruption of various kinds. it is important that people affected by the crisis can receive support and help, but this is best handled at national level, not by an international bureaucratic system.
in writing. − the financial crisis was caused in part by banks abusing their customers' trust and taking excessive risks with their money. we believe that there is a need for a more in-depth discussion on how to deal with crossborder financial transactions. we do not think that the so-called tobin tax effectively prevents speculation, but we welcome a discussion on how financial undertakings such as banks, fund companies and insurance companies can contribute to a sound and stable financial market. the financial crisis shows that there is a need for cross-border solutions to cross-border problems. this debate should therefore be conducted globally and not only within the eu.
in writing. − the financial crisis was caused in part by banks abusing their customers' trust and taking excessive risks with their money. we believe that there is a need for a more in-depth discussion on how to deal with crossborder financial transactions. we do not think that the so-called tobin tax effectively prevents speculation, but we welcome a discussion on how financial undertakings such as banks, fund companies and insurance companies can contribute to a sound and stable financial market. the financial crisis shows that there is a need for cross-border solutions to cross-border problems. this debate should therefore be conducted globally and not only within the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. like carlos coelho and many other colleagues, i would like to stress that the creation of the schengen area in the 1980s and 1990s is one of the most important reforms of our time. jean monnet, one of the most important figures in the founding of the european union, is reported to have said: "the idea of a european union is not to bring nations together, but to bring people together". over the centuries, the mobility of people in europe has been severely curtailed. suspicion of fellow humans has marked relations between european countries. trust between countries has at times been very weak. mistrust, not trust, has instead marked the relationships. fortunately, this is a thing of the past and we are now seeing new opportunities for europe. most of us here in the european parliament have long been able to make use of the freedoms afforded by the schengen area. it is easy to forget the unique measure of trust between the states that was the basis for its creation. it's easy to forget the arduous journey there. but free movement is a prerequisite for people to meet across national borders. mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, as carlos coelho has rightly pointed out, it is important that there is an effective and transparent evaluation mechanism for the schengen rules, so that the area remains and develops into an area of free movement. but the basis of schengen is trust between the states involved, not the mechanism itself. it is important that this mechanism be both effective and transparent. that is why i see a problem with the commission's proposal. this means that the council's present role is transferred to the commission and that the scope for cooperation is considerably reduced. my most serious objection, however, is that we, the elected members of the european parliament, are excluded from the process. we are talking about something as technical as an evaluation mechanism, but we must not forget that it is about the fundamental foundations of european cooperation: freedom, security and justice. it is therefore important that we all be involved in the new decisions to be taken on this matter. i would therefore urge the commission to address the criticism here in the house. i call on the commission to come forward with a new and better proposal as soon as possible. the implication of a new proposal must be that changes to the evaluation mechanism will be subject to co-decision between the commission, the member states and, not least, us, the elected representatives of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the council representative, mr carlgren, who is here today, began by saying that many people are being pessimistic trade visitors in the run-up to the copenhagen conference. i can only agree with him and i really hope that a majority in the european parliament will ensure that the pessimists like andreas carlgren, with whom he has to contend in his own government and in the council, do not get the fall. two concrete issues must be resolved before the pessimists are right. one is, of course, as we have already talked about, the financing of climate action in developing countries. the commission's proposal is simply not good enough. by 2020, the eu's contribution to developing countries must be at least eur 30 billion per year, and we must have already provided substantial support for transition by 2012. this aid must also, of course, be outside the scope of ordinary aid. reusing money already pledged jeopardizes the possibility of a global climate agreement. i would like to ask if andreas carlgren has been persuaded by the council to pursue these high ambitions. secondly, we must take the two-degree target seriously. to achieve this, it is not enough for the industrialized world to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. i would therefore like mr carlgren, as the council representative, to state his position on this point once again. many of us see reductions of between 30 and 40 percent by 2020 as necessary. what is the ambition of the council, and does andreas carlgren have the council with him?
mr president, i would like to thank you. if you include the entire production chain, about 40 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions come from our food production. in a careless way, agriculture is a big villain in this context. we must recognize that agriculture and forestry are probably one of the most important keys to tackling the emissions problem. but then, in the rich world, we must dare to embrace new technology and to start from old experience. we must change our agricultural policy so that we do not dump the market for developing countries. perhaps this would be one of the most important steps to get africa's agriculture back on its feet and to liberate african women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the council! you come here again and again with your fancy speeches, but where is the concrete content? in the developing world, the land is drying up and disease is spreading. the climate refugees are gathering. do you require them to face death with a smile? you can reverse the pessimism that you in the council are creating by being concrete in your promises. i wonder then: will you offer 35 to 40 billion euros a year in new climate aid? will you exclude nuclear power and carbon dioxide storage from eligible projects? do you accept the compulsory licensing of essential green technologies to the poorest countries? are you saving the forest by rejecting market-based mechanisms within redd? if you can promise all this, then you will also implement a 40 percent reduction, and then we will all leave here with a smile on our faces.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the world is now fighting three major crises: the financial crisis, the jobs crisis and the climate crisis. the solutions we are working on together must help to solve all three of these crises. these are major challenges for entrepreneurs, but they also offer great opportunities for new jobs and for solving various social crises. used right and decided right and with tough enough decisions from us who are leading these negotiations, we will see a renewal and a new eco-efficient economy in the world. people all over the world expect a powerful response at the copenhagen summit. let us be clear that the united states wants market-based solutions, europe wants law-based solutions and china wants to solve its own domestic social problems. within europe, too, attitudes are different. in the european parliament there are members who want to set the thresholds so high that it will be impossible to reach a solution in copenhagen, while others want to work only on voluntary solutions. the future lies in a green liberal market economy. we must ensure that consumers are given the opportunity to use their power in the market through transparency and openness.
in writing. - we are well aware of the negative effects of the economic crisis on the labour market and society as a whole. we feel strongly for all those affected by the crisis and would welcome bridging measures for individuals, such as education. we are convinced, however, that free trade is fundamentally a positive force for the development of europe as a whole. we therefore want to see the economic crisis tackled primarily by market-based means that promote free and fair trade.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president! - what is it? the world competition is killing me. today, the developing world accounts for 20 percent of the world's wealth. in 15 years, they'll make up 34 percent. by 2025, 15 years from now, china and india will together account for 20 percent of the world's r&amp;d investment. while these efforts are taking place outside europe, bureaucracy is a wet blanket over europe's research institutes, universities and industry. we have three crises that we have to solve simultaneously: the climate crisis, the jobs crisis and the financial crisis. the itre committee's response to these crises is that we must invest in research and innovation. this priority is shared by both the council and the commission in the lisbon process, in the seventh framework programme, in the economic recovery plan. but what they call priority is actually a seven percent savings. i must say that i am grateful that the council is not 'prioritising' more in these extremely important areas! this is an orwellian idiom that we cannot accept. we need more funding for research and development. we must work together to reduce bureaucracy. we would like to see the council, together with the commissioner responsible for research, focus on this. above all, we call for strong action on research and innovation. that is where jobs will be created and that is where the future of europe and european competitiveness lies, not in savings in this area!
madam president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the swedish presidency criticises the committee on budgets for wanting to increase the so-called payments in the budget, i.e. in practice the implementation of the eu budget. i consider that criticism to be unreasonable for several reasons. first of all: the council's finance ministers have always held back payments to the extent that large parts of the eu budget are never implemented. instead, large amounts of surplus are paid back to the member states. it is unreasonable because budget commitments are for implementation, not repayment. we're prepared to fight for it. the question is therefore whether it is really the policy of the presidency to make big promises in the form of commitments which are not to be implemented. secondly: this year the case for this is even stronger than usual. this is because it is a question of increasing the implementation of measures such as those of the social fund which are specifically concerned with job creation, skills development, etc. the presidency's criticism is not only directed at the european parliament but also at the commission, because what we are doing is mainly about restoring the cuts in the commission's budget proposal that the council wants to enforce, and in addition to that, focusing on job-creating measures. i also note that the presidency criticises the committee on budgets for increasing certain administrative appropriations, while the commission criticises us for the opposite, namely that we have accepted some of the council's cuts. we have had the principle of increasing the administrative appropriations needed to guarantee the implementation of important policies, not otherwise. this year's budget debate seems to be turning into a kind of battle between the council and the commission. as for the recovery plan, the eu budget is not of the order of magnitude that it can be used for keynesian stimulus policy, but it can be used for some small but strategic things, such as the recovery plan. in the face of high unemployment, it is of course good to make investments early on which should be made anyway and which help to build europe into a genuine single market, for example in the area of energy infrastructure. however, almost a year after the plan was launched, we still have no concrete proposals from the council or the swedish presidency on where the money should go. we are open to discussion, but it goes without saying that it would be pointless to take money away from other priority areas which also contribute to employment, lifelong learning, energy and climate development, etc. it's a pity the secretary of state couldn't stay. i had a question for him. i'm asking it anyway, because there might be some other way to answer it. it has been said that the baltic sea strategy is a priority for the swedish presidency. at the same time, no funding has been proposed for this. this is surprising to me, because it means that everything that needs to be done has to be taken from other sources that are already intended for other important purposes. the baltic sea strategy will not be a net addition. i wonder how the swedish presidency can claim to give priority to the baltic sea policy in the light of this. we want to allocate 20 million euros, which is equivalent to 200 million swedish kronor. it's an important addition!
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, it is necessary to make quick expressions when crises occur in various industries, as with the banks at the moment, as with the automobile industry and the dairy farmers. but these crises will come again and again. maybe next time it won't be milk. maybe it's about grain, maybe it's about something else. i will venture to go a little outside the real subject of this debate. we can't always just solve the urgent problems. we must also find the time and the energy and the political planning to have a common european agricultural policy which is robust, which is durable, which is flexible and which eliminates the worst consequences of the price instability we can expect. i want a living countryside in europe and the countryside cannot live without farmers and without animals!
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr. minister, mr. commissioner, it is a pleasure to see you here. i would like to raise two points before the european council summit. the first point i would like to raise is the climate issue. i think it is important to go into those negotiations with the intention that the best solution to that question is one that involves everyone agreeing to a common commitment. i say this because sometimes the debate is conducted as if it were a question of devising the best solution here in europe or in a single country. but it is not enough if we cannot include china, india and a whole host of other countries that are not currently participating in the joint climate commitment. that means putting pragmatism and results first. such a solution must also be based on the willingness of all countries to make a commitment. it must not be that commitments and policies in other parts of the world are based on continued investment from europe, but they must be based on a sound economy, a sound growth and a sound development of new opportunities with the help of europe and other rich countries. the second point concerns the financial markets. i think it is important to stress that the stability of financial markets requires, above all, what we call a stable macroeconomy, that is, stable public finances. this means that the debate on how to get out of the large budget deficits is far more important than the individual regulations on the financial market as such. however, it is also true that stable financial markets require that we have stable growth, stable investment and the emergence of new jobs. this means that when we legislate on financial markets, it must mean better supervision, cross-border and transparency, but not so much regulation that investment and growth is happening in other countries. we are threatening the stability of our own economy and our own financial markets.
mr president, i will quote john stuart mill and then i will continue in swedish. ‘if all mankind minus one were of one opinion, mankind would be no more justified in silencing that one person than he, if he had the power, would be justified in silencing mankind.’ italien är en del av den europeiska demokratins vagga. det är därför beklagligt att situationen för italiensk media ser ut som den gör idag. att grundläggande mänskliga rättigheter respekteras i alla länder i europa är kärnan i eu-samarbetet. det är fullständigt felaktigt att som ppe hävda att så inte är fallet. ppe gömmer sig bakom de här argumenten och springer på det sättet silvio berlusconis ärenden. mediemångfald innebär att många olika aktörer får chansen att verka utan att staten lägger sig innehållet. för att vi ska ha en levande demokratisk debatt i europa behövs oberoende medier i alla medlemsländer. hur detta uppnås är inte en eu-fråga, men att säkerställa pressfriheten hör hemma på eu-nivå. jag beklagar därför dagens resultat i voteringen om resolutionen om mediafrihet i italien.
i don't need to explain any more about the terrible case of dawit isaak. i also know that cecilia malmström is deeply committed to this issue. as far as i know, dawit isaac is the only eu citizen who is in prison for exercising his right to freedom of expression. should the eu not then come together to make a specific joint statement on dawit isaak? shouldn't the issue of a special statement be raised in the council of ministers? perhaps minister cecilia malmström or someone else should also go to eritrea and try to meet dawit isaak and also president isaias afewerki? i hope so, because i think it is completely unreasonable for a citizen of the european union to be imprisoned without trial for years on end, probably seriously ill. he might die in prison.
madam secretary! i know that the presidency has had several good conferences and has devoted a lot of time to this issue. my question was about the alcohol strategy, because i asked the same question about six months ago. and then i was told that the alcohol strategy would be evaluated before the summer. that is the background, because the question has not been raised. a lot has happened since the swedish presidency proposed an eu alcohol strategy in 2001. the alcohol strategy was adopted in 2006 and a lot has happened since then. some member states have raised their age limits, raised alcohol taxes and lowered the alcohol limit per person, etc. i'm glad to hear it. i would have wished that the swedish presidency could have gone a little further in its approach to advertising, but it is nevertheless gratifying that this inquiry into advertising, alcohol and young people has now been carried out.
in writing. - the group of amendments to the eu budget for 2010, known as 'block 3', contains interventions and support measures which i am opposed to in principle. these include various storage measures, including for alcohol, and substantial eu aid to the wine sector. it is also about eu aid for milk and fruit in schools, something which may be important but is not something the eu should decide. at the same time, the group includes important initiatives on, among other things, animal welfare and the control of animal transport, which i welcome. however, since the voting procedure forces me to take a position on the group of amendments as a whole, i have therefore chosen to abstain from voting on block 3. amendment no 886 was for a laudable purpose - sports betting. but this is not a matter for the european union. that's why i voted no. amendment no 905 was based on an attitude towards migrants that i cannot accept in principle, for example, money was allocated to tell people living in africa how dangerous it is to go to europe. we are not going to build walls around our continent. that's why i voted against the amendment. amendment no 909 included funds for the surveillance of european citizens. something i don't accept and that's why i voted no.
in writing. - the group of amendments to the eu budget for 2010 which constitutes 'block 3' contains interventions and support measures which we oppose in principle (in the same way as we are critical of - and vote against - eu support for tobacco farming). these include various storage measures, including for alcohol, and substantial eu support for the wine sector. it is also about eu support for milk and fruit in schools, an important issue in itself, but one which we believe should rather be dealt with at national level. at the same time, the group of amendments in block 3 contains important initiatives on, among other things, animal welfare and the control of animal transport which we would in principle welcome because we are vigorously pushing these issues in other contexts, but because the voting procedure forces us to take a position on the group of amendments as a whole, we have chosen to abstain from voting on block 3.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. we support the basic principles of the eu budget for 2010 and want to emphasise that it should give citizens good value for money. the framework set by the financial perspective should be respected and we therefore welcome the fact that the budget will remain within it with a good margin. we want to cut agricultural and regional aid drastically and reduce the overall budget. we want to use the common money more for research and development, growth, infrastructure and security.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? i welcome the decision announced by commissioner for fisheries, joe borg, the day before yesterday, that the commission is withdrawing its proposal for a fisheries agreement with guinea. the committee on fisheries has already voted against such an agreement. we did so two days after the massacre in conakry, where over 150 people were shot dead by government troops controlled by moussa camara. i hope that this is a first step and that the european union will review its trade policy with developing countries. we have a great responsibility as one of the world's most important and largest trading and development actors. we need to have a consistency between trade and what kind of relationship we have with these types of regimes. over the years, attempts have been made to improve the fisheries agreement by saying that part of the money from the agreement should go to supporting local fisheries. but the commission's own evaluations have shown that it does not actually happen as it is written on paper, but that the money goes directly to support these types of regimes. the european union should not be doing this!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that the swedish presidency has abandoned its ambition to push for too rapid shifts to exit strategies which would risk perpetuating the high unemployment rate in europe. but i am concerned that there is a growing alarm that the copenhagen climate summit will not be the success that so many have hoped for and that has characterised many of the speeches in this debate and the questions to fredrik reinfeldt. this pessimism is also reflected in the conclusions of the last council meeting. while the council reaffirms that the developed world must reduce its emissions by 80-95% by 2050, achieving this requires ambitious commitments in the near future, and to achieve this, the issue of financing for action in developing countries must be resolved. it is the countries that have contributed least to climate change that will suffer the most from its effects, and if the funding is not resolved, there will be no climate agreement. what does the council promise? as fredrik reinfeldt has said here today, the eu has promised to make a fair contribution. for me, this is an anticlimax. could the decision have been that the eu would not make a reasonable contribution? to me, it's like starting to prick a chin and not finishing with more than a thumb. the commission has proposed aid of 57 billion for the first three years. this is what the council is choosing to take note of and i find it very difficult to see it as a commitment that is worth anything. i find that troubling. there are problems with the us, with china and with the ambitions of other countries, but there are also major problems with the eu's attitude and its own ambitions. this could be rectified, and if fredrik reinfeldt had wanted to remain, i would have asked him how the swedish presidency intends to secure a stronger mandate for the copenhagen summit. because it can't fail.
mr president, i would like to thank you. politics and psychology go hand in hand and at the moment there are many who are trying to lower expectations for the kyoto negotiations in copenhagen in a few weeks' time. i just recognized this from when we were negotiating the climate goals. the climate targets that we proposed and worked for in this parliament had been both declared dead and buried, not once but perhaps ten times, when we got the final decision. the same is true of the climate package. it's been declared dead and buried by those who are actually against the climate goals. i would therefore urge the swedish presidency to continue its good negotiating work and its constructive approach, because if we do not aim for a fully binding agreement in copenhagen, we will not achieve it. but the two-degree target is extremely important, and that's why we need to move forward now at full speed. seneca himself observed that mankind can be divided into two groups: those who go ahead and do something and those who go behind and criticize.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish presidency wishes to congratulate: the stubborn man in prague finally signed off, and now we've finally reached the end of the road. hopefully, it's not institutional issues that will be the main distraction of our time for the next decade, although "vladislav hálek" is a true european hero who was ready to take a few more steps today. the fact that the czech republic was granted an exception to the charter of fundamental rights is somber to me. as andrew duff has pointed out, poland and the united kingdom are more than enough. in copenhagen, a global agreement must be reached, in which the rich world takes on an extra-large responsibility. the poor world is not responsible for global warming. at the same time, of course, emerging economies must play their part. finally, madam secretary: the process leading up to the summit next week, when a president and a foreign minister are to be appointed, should have been conducted in greater transparency. the present secrecy is embarrassing for a democratic europe, and i think more people than i do think so.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the 2006 compromise, the socialist group withdrew its demand that social considerations take precedence over the freedom of service providers. otherwise there would have been no compromise, mr harbour said in a press release. the word 'country of origin' was deleted but replaced in a commission regulation on the conflict of laws, which clearly stated that in the event of a conflict between the labour market laws of different countries, the laws of the country of origin of the companies apply. the directive could have been interpreted as meaning that the eu would not interfere in national labour law. however, the commission quickly drew up guidelines which stated that service companies do not need to have a permanent representative in the country of work, and thus the union has no counterpart to negotiate with. the vaxholm judgment also unequivocally established that swedish labour law is subordinate to ec law and sweden was forced to weaken its labour law. i and the european united left see no other way out for workers' rights than to put a clear legal protocol in the treaty where trade union social rights take precedence over market freedoms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the nordic labour market model is based on agreements between the social partners. such a model does not work if one of the parties, in this case an official, does not have a representative on the spot with whom to negotiate. we were therefore very pleased with the decision taken on the services directive, which we believe means that the right to negotiate, conclude and apply collective agreements and to take action in accordance with national laws and practices would not be affected. during the implementation of the services directive in sweden, however, a debate has arisen as to whether or not it is permissible to require a responsible representative for the company. my question is this: does the directive in any way prevent the host country from requiring service providers to have a representative on the spot with a mandate to negotiate and conclude contracts?
madam president, it is regrettable that the swedish presidency could not be represented here tonight in the person of a minister, as it would very much have liked. i understand that the council presidency was not invited and was told there was no need for it to be here. i would like to remind the house that the swedish presidency has driven and supported the process of visa liberalisation for the western balkans from the very beginning. we should – and i know my colleague tanja fajon, the rapporteur, agrees with me – have a chance to thank the council presidency, for we owe it the joint declaration between parliament and the council, supported by the commission, which is unique in the history of this institution. i would like an explanation, though maybe not here and now, of why the council presidency could not attend, and i would like it to go on the record that the minister could not be here because no invitation was made.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i am following up mrs bildt's request and saying that the swedish presidency has indeed been very active in this process, which has made it possible, as mrs fajon has just said, to offer a number of citizens of the member states concerned, and in particular young people, the opportunity to increase exchanges and to have contacts with this europe which they sometimes do not know well enough. it is true that this proposal is a historic step in the development of the european policy of short-stay visas in our relations with the countries of the western balkans. and the commission welcomes the positive reception of this legislative proposal by both the european parliament and the council. each is aware of its major political impact and the sensitivity of the issue which affects all citizens of the countries concerned. i understand the position of parliament. i would like to confirm in this context the commission's firm determination to monitor closely the implementation of all the criteria set out in the road map by all the countries concerned. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia had already been the subject of a positive expertise; the dialogue was therefore concluded with the fyrom. the commission carried out missions to serbia and montenegro in october with experts from the member states, and these missions confirmed that all the criteria of the respective roadmaps were correctly implemented. we shall follow the same method for albania and bosnia and herzegovina. despite very significant progress in recent months, bosnia and albania have not yet been able to complete the necessary reforms required in the roadmap to justify the visa waiver. but, as you have just said, mrs fajon, it is already a great encouragement for them to feel that their neighbours already have this possibility of being exempt from visas and i assure you that i will make every effort to ensure that albania and bosnia and herzegovina, as you wish, can obtain this exemption from visas as quickly as possible. i would ask parliament, which will be a co-legislator in the field of visas with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, to support the structured method of dialogue on visa liberalisation which is being followed by the commission, because any other approach would create confusion without bringing about a real change in the visa regime. it would create false expectations and risk slowing down the efforts of the countries concerned to implement the reforms required by the roadmaps. we maintain albania and bosnia in annex i to the regulation at this stage, while reaffirming the european union's commitment to help these two countries meet the criteria of their roadmap and thus to achieve visa-free travel in accordance with the procedures in force. in this context, the commission supports the text of the joint political declaration, which confirms the union's firm commitment to the implementation of the second stage of this visa liberalisation process for the citizens of albania and bosnia as soon as possible, madam rapporteur. i think that this is a very important point, madam president, which shows the balkan states how much europe is attentive to their expectations and desires.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the ppe group is committed to speeding up visa liberalisation for all countries in the western balkans by july 2010. we welcome and support the proposal to grant visa liberalisation for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia by christmas this year. we understand the plea of the people of bosnia and herzegovina, and albania – a young generation which has been locked in and left out and feels imprisoned. to them we say, ‘we are on your side; we are ready when you are ready’. it is regrettable that the slow start by the authorities in albania, and bosnia and herzegovina left them behind. the responsibility for any delays rests with them. we exhort them to meet the benchmarks as soon as possible. we know that the commission is helping in that process. unfortunately, i have to say that i am saddened that it took us three months of negotiations for the ppe group to convince the political left in this house to operate according to the treaties. is that so complicated? finally, it too has understood that the european parliament is not above the law. with all respect to my distinguished colleagues, i have to denounce a non-constructive attitude. there are no short cuts. there is no abracadabra. we are not here to score points. we are here to obtain results for the citizens of the balkans. let me be clear, any provisional mixed intermediary status does not accelerate the process and does not put pressure on the commission or the council. it definitely does not send any strong political message. i would like to conclude by saying that i experienced the siege of sarajevo and the shelling for a year and a half. to my friends there i am saying that i am committed. (the president cut off the speaker.)
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, commissioner, for finally putting forward a proposal. i think that too often the barroso commission has not dared to challenge the council, because the council has gone backwards instead of forwards, but now the commission has done so. thank you for that. adam smith himself said that a market economy cannot work unless consumers are given enough information to express their choices when they buy things, and that is why it is absolutely necessary that we have this origin marking. there should be no exceptions for those countries which have free trade agreements with the eu and so on, but it should be the same for everyone. there are those who say that labelling is expensive, but many products are already labelled today, so it would be a marginal additional cost. we have also seen this in the more detailed beef labelling in europe: it's not expensive at all. but i think the list could go on. it seems to be focused on products that are often counterfeited and where everyone has an interest in the industry. at the same time, many important consumer products are missing and i therefore think that the list should be extended.
mr president, i would like to thank you. protectionists rarely admit that their proposals are protectionist, but they hide their aims with other arguments. i would argue that mandatory origin labelling is a clear example of this. in june 2006, i stood in this house and dispelled a number of myths about this particular proposal, and this time it ended up where it belongs, namely in the garbage can. but the decision on the korean free trade agreement has made us re-examine this proposal, and that is not a dignified way of discussing this type of proposal. three years later, it is evident that a number of the myths still exist and deserve to be put to rest. so let us start with the first claim that is repeatedly made, namely that consumers demand this, and then the advocates rely on the commission's internet consultation on the matter. but they fail to mention that 96.7% of the responses in that consultation came from a single country, namely italy, where industry and organised special interests are driving the issue. today, it is possible for anyone who so wishes to label their goods as originating, and believe me: any competitive company that sees a consumer benefit in this already does so today, so there is no need. the second myth is that labelling provides consumers with relevant information and consumer protection and promotes environmental interests, as if it were a matter of geography. no, this is actually playing on people's prejudices, not protecting people. the third myth is that labelling strengthens european competitiveness. but new technical barriers to trade are not protecting european industry. this has nothing to do with competitiveness, but is only enhanced by open markets and a good business climate. if we prohibit eu countries from allowing this kind of legislation within the union because it is protectionist, why should we apply the same rules to the rest of the world without acknowledging that it is protectionist? we have rejected the idea of introducing a mandatory eu made in label, and it would be unreasonable to introduce it now in relation to the rest of the world.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the lisbon treaty means major changes, not least in the budgetary field. as many have pointed out, the most important change is the disappearance of the division into compulsory and non-compulsory spending areas. the european parliament will thus be able to take part in the decision-making process on the entire budget, and we will have a new simplified budgetary procedure. the treaty is now clear and approved, but that does not mean that we can just go straight to the new procedure. firstly, we are in complete agreement that we should carry out this year's budgetary process under the old rules, because it would have led to chaos to try to change this in the middle of the budgetary procedure. secondly: before we can fully apply the new treaty, a new interinstitutional agreement is needed. an updated financial regulation and a new renegotiated long-term budget, the multiannual framework, are required as part of this new regulatory framework. this is gonna take some time. a number of transitional provisions are therefore needed to enable us to start work on the budget in 2010. i should like to take this opportunity to thank alain lamassoure, chairman of the committee on budgets, who very quickly took the initiative for this report, and who has prepared it in record time and in very close cooperation with the various political groups in the committee. thank you so much. thank you. we have also included in the report some comments on the new permanent solutions. we social democrats have had a few points of view in particular. the most important thing is to ensure that parliament's new powers are applied during the transitional period and that the proposals which must be put forward for a new interinstitutional agreement in the future and for a revised budgetary regulation must be seen as a package so that we have a functioning whole without overlaps and problems of interpretation. i hope that in today's trialogue we will also be able to agree on the first parts of this. i conclude that the change in the budgetary procedure which this implies is a good example of the simplification and less bureaucratic procedures which the whole of the eu is in great need of.
member of the commission. − the commission welcomes the positive reception of this legislative proposal by parliament in the plenary yesterday. the adoption of this proposal will have a tangible impact on citizens in the countries concerned. as was said yesterday, bosnia and herzegovina, and albania will not be forgotten. the commission will make proposals for the lifting of the visa requirements in these countries as soon as possible in 2010, once they have fulfilled the necessary preconditions of the roadmap. in this respect, the commission supports the joint declaration of the council and parliament.
mr president, i would just like to say that it is regrettable that the swedish presidency could not be represented here today at the appropriate ministerial level, because it has not been invited. the swedish presidency negotiated the joint declaration, which is the main political success in the field of visa liberalisation. we owe this to the presidency, but do not even have the possibility to say thank you. i would like to put on the record the fact that the council presidency is not here not because it does not want to be, but because it has not been afforded a welcome.
mr president, i just wanted to say that we should stress that the joint declaration is really a great success. it is in the joint declaration that we carry the strong political message in support of speeding up the granting of free visas to all the people of the western balkans. it is thanks to the responsible position of the ppe group, which brought the process back on track and in the right direction on a sound legal basis according to the treaties, that we could achieve such a political success. forcing into a legal annex a political statement was just misleading and sent the wrong message, raising false expectations for the people in the region. i would just like to say that i lived through the siege and the shelling of sarajevo for one and a half years. i will be committed to the speeding-up of the granting of visas for my friends and people there until we get it next summer.
in writing. - i am naturally in favour of facilitating the travel of third-country nationals wishing to enter the eu, including the balkans, and would therefore have supported this report. unfortunately, a number of amendments were passed requiring biometric data in passports. this can be both legally uncertain and a violation of privacy, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i am naturally in favour of facilitating the travel of third-country nationals wishing to enter the eu. this also applies to the balkans and i would therefore have supported this report. unfortunately, a number of amendments were passed requiring biometric data in passports. i have always opposed this because it is both a violation of privacy and a breach of the law, and that is why i abstained in the final vote.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. tomorrow is the day the telecom package is decided. i want to thank catherine trautmann and all of her colleagues who have fought for a free internet. i would also like to thank all the citizens who have been involved. they have rightly shown a very strong commitment, because what is at stake is freedom of expression and our civil liberties. thanks to the commitment of citizens, the protection of internet users against abuse of power and surveillance was better than expected, but in my opinion and in the opinion of the left, not good enough. i have three reasons to vote no. firstly, because the compromise, amendment no 138, does not provide citizens with sufficient protection against the power of the authorities and the internet service providers. it only talks about a pre-suspension trial not a court trial. this could open the door to arbitrary action. the text means that the rights of end users cannot be restricted by the member states, which is good, but companies can impose restrictions if they do so in the agreements. the second reason is that my amendments on internet rights, the well-known citizens' rights amendments, are not included in the compromise. it actually opens up a network where it's not obvious that all users have access to the entire network, and where all sites don't have the same opportunity to be seen. i think we should have been very clear that it should not be allowed to lead the internet into such a trap. the end result is likely to be a collection of cable tv channels rather than free communication for all. the third reason is that the telecommunications package falls within the rules of the internal market. this means, of course, that in the event of a conflict, the court will decide. freedom of expression is not a matter for the court of justice. it is not enough to protect citizens' rights only half-heartedly, they must be fully protected.
mr president, we in the swedish pirate party support the compromise that was reached in conciliation. it is not perfect and it is not everything we would have wanted, but we think it is a good step in the right direction. nobody should be shut off from the internet without at least a prior, fair and impartial procedure that includes the right to be heard and respects the principle that you are innocent until you are proven guilty. the compromise sends a strong signal to the member states that things like the french hadopi law or the mandelson method in the uk are simply not acceptable. it is now up to activists in france and in the uk to make sure that their governments respect this. but for us here in the european parliament this was only the beginning. we need, as several speakers have said, a proper bill of rights for the internet that makes it absolutely clear that the internet is an important part of society, where our fundamental civil liberties must be respected. this includes the right to information freedom and the right to privacy as specified in the european convention of fundamental rights. we need net neutrality and we need a policy that says ‘yes’ to the fantastic possibilities that the internet and the new information technology give us all. europe has a unique opportunity to show leadership and set an example to the world for a free and open internet. this is a chance we should take. the road ahead is open. this compromise is only a first step, but it is a step in the right direction. so i encourage all colleagues to vote ‘yes’ to it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the protection of users has been the focus of much of the telecommunications debate. this spring, eva-britt svensson and others voted down a proposal that would require a court hearing if someone were to be suspended. now we have another solution, which protects users by very clear references to the regulatory system that must be required in each member state. i think it is important to say that the difference here is not whether or not you want to protect users, but whether or not you respect the right of member states to decide on their own legal systems. it is interesting to note that one of the swedish members of parliament who is most opposed to the european union and sweden's membership wants to make it more supranational than anyone else in this house usually proposes, because she wants the european union to legislate on how the legal systems of the member states should be designed. it is a big step and the very large majority of this parliament has opposed it, because we support the compromise that is now in place and which will provide good protection for users. we also do this because we want to open up the possibility for european consumers and users to always have a choice between different suppliers and operators. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are respected. this is something different, eva-britt svensson, from the time when we had the big monopolies that decided on the right of citizens to see, to decide, to use information. it is a wonderful change which, unfortunately, eva-britt svensson and possibly some others will vote against. but the big thing - and i also want to congratulate catherine trautmann and the commissioner - is that we are now also tackling the spectrum issue and ensuring that we can be the leader in europe in exploiting the digital dividend. it will bring success and opportunity to europe's citizens and give european industry the opportunity to be world-leading. that is why i and the vast majority of this house support the motion we are voting on tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the greatest failure of europe today is that we have not yet succeeded in curbing the trafficking of human beings that is taking place right before our eyes. women and children are sold like commodities over the counter all over our member states. according to europol, half a million women were bought and sold in europe in 2009. we need to talk about this openly and find strategies to eradicate it. there are institutions in the eu that aim to combat trafficking in human beings and organised crime, but at present there are many shortcomings. the cooperation between the member states, the commission, the council and parliament must be improved in a fundamental way if we are to have any chance of tackling serious crime once and for all. this includes organised crime, mafia activity and human trafficking. in just a few days, the treaty of lisbon will enter into force. i feel like the air will be a little easier to breathe. because then there is hope at last for deeper cooperation for the safety of citizens all over our member states. we will soon be able to see europol strengthened and there is effective cooperation between europol and eurojust, and then we can finally tackle the fight against organised crime in europe, where human trafficking and mafia-like crime syndicates are concerned. let us say once and for all in 2009 that human trafficking is unworthy of europe today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am pleased with the swedish minister's commitment. yet he is still very much alone. world leaders, the european council and even the prime minister in charge of the swedish presidency seem to prioritize short-term political gains at home over long-term environmental gains at the global level. i can't do that. among other things, we need clear information on the financing of climate action in developing countries. to promise to pay a fair share is not acceptable. it's just words, no commitment, so i have to keep on talking. can andreas carlgren promise to give us a clear message before copenhagen? secondly, when we talk about the funding: a large part of the money is expected to come from emissions trading. at the same time, we risk undermining the system by opening up the possibility of a large part of the emission reductions being made in developing countries through cdm projects. on top of this, there is also a discussion about whether rich countries should be allowed to take back unused emission allowances from previous years. how do mr carlgren and the presidency intend to ensure the functioning of the ets? can we expect an end to this cat-and-mouse game between the countries involved in the copenhagen summit?
madam president, i would like to thank you. andreas carlgren warned that there are many pessimists around us. it's true, and i'm glad carlgren himself didn't join them. but unfortunately the swedish prime minister, who chairs the council, and the danish prime minister, who is hosting the copenhagen meeting, do. both of these conservative leaders have, for short-term party tactical reasons, played down expectations of copenhagen and thus made a good agreement difficult. it is embarrassing and utterly irresponsible, because there will be no better time. that's what carlgren said. it is in copenhagen that three things in particular need to be specified and made legally binding commitments: (1) how much each industrialised country will limit its emissions by 2020. the science suggests that we should be approaching 40% reductions, which is not only something we can do, but also something that will make us more competitive and create more green jobs. the amount and nature of short-term financing to be provided to developing countries in the rich world. this funding must go beyond the resources already pledged by the rich world to combat poverty. it is important that the swedish presidency is also ready to change its mind and fight so that those who are most affected by climate change do not also suffer even more from hunger.
mr president, first i would like to welcome the stockholm programme as the best way forward to a citizen-centred europe, and to thank both minister ask and minister billström for their vision. finally we can go home and tell everybody, without distinction, that europe is for them; europe is with them; europe is us. of course, the stockholm programme will be what we make it. let us give it a chance. let us support it as broadly as possible and get down to work to implement it. i would like to say a special thank you for the focus on children, which means that we can finally work on enhanced action to protect children, including migrant children. it is also very good that we have a greater possibility to combat cross-border criminality while respecting individual rights. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am pleased that the latest edition of the council's stockholm programme has developed the issue of children's rights, violence against women and the prevention of trafficking in human beings. i was a little worried that the presidency would be deviating from its priorities. now, after the vote in parliament, we also have the opportunity to improve. however, i am disappointed that there is no mention of the development of a strategy for europe for children, which parliament proposed quite recently. as commissioner barrot said, the union must continue to be at the forefront of children's rights. as regards the human trafficking texts, i am also disappointed that the presidency has not stood up to the issue of the link between sex buying, the purchase of services and the possibility of legislating in this area. the eu also needs a legal basis to combat violence against women.
mr president, i think that after the lisbon treaty becomes reality, the meeting of the european council last week and the nomination of commissioners, it is time to set new perspectives and see the new challenges that are ahead of us. one of them is obvious and that is that the work after copenhagen will be just as challenging as the work before. it will continue to be one of the main tasks for the european union and the new commission. but, also, we shall consider the fact that now is also the time to leave behind the old concepts of east and west in europe, or new and old, and to think that it is one europe. and it is also time to see that now, after all the discussions regarding the lisbon treaty, it is time to see a new momentum for the enlargement process. croatia and iceland – i would like them to compete to be number 28. but, also, the western balkans and of course the negotiations with turkey need to be considered. those are issues that are now ahead of us and are a way of improving the strength of the european union in a new world, where we need to be strong and to lead as regards ideas and values. but it is also a matter of now ensuring that we will have a new agenda for a social europe – meaning jobs, innovation and prosperity – and the only means to achieve that is to ensure that, after the crisis, we can become a competitive and leading economy. and i would underline that there is a responsibility for the new commission to ensure that there will be no protectionism, that it will be easy for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and emerge and act throughout europe, and that we can ensure that europe will be a dynamic economy. this is important, and i say this to the president of the commission and to all commissioners: we need to ensure that we have a competitive european economy in order to have a social europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we hear criticism that the eu leadership has been given to two rather unknown politicians. i think that criticism is unfair. we in parliament have at least come to know catherine ashton as an excellent leader. but the criticism must be addressed, because many now conclude that the member states are happy to see the eu function as a simple intergovernmental coordination body, not as a separate political level tasked with finding common solutions to major challenges: growth, jobs, peace and the environment. if that were true, it would be an unreasonable development. against this background, it is worrying that the commission and the council have had such difficulty in showing the will to act in the face of one of the greatest internal challenges facing the eu, namely the reform of the eu's long-term budget. now we must find the resources to invest in the single market. it's about transportation and energy infrastructure. we must provide the resources needed to put the words of the new lisbon strategy to 2020 into action. we need to solve the issue of climate finance at least partly through the eu budget and we need to prepare for future enlargement. so my question to the presidency and the commission is: when will we see concrete proposals for, on the one hand, a midterm review that affects the non-existent budgetary margins for the remaining three years of this financial perspective, the current ceilings prevent any reasonable handling of the challenges that cannot wait until after 2013, and, on the other hand, a proposal that lays out the guidelines for a long-term budgetary reform?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted today in favour of the eu's strategy for freedom, security and justice, the so-called stockholm programme, but when the council's concrete legislative proposals are returned to parliament through the commission, i intend to be both tough and tough on the issues of openness and transparency in legislative work. this is particularly important in the context of the asylum process. the possibility of seeking asylum is a fundamental right and european cooperation is about breaking down walls, not building them up. the member states must therefore respect the definition of a refugee and an asylum seeker under the refugee convention, something i have now clarified in an amendment. in its final form, the stockholm programme must stand for european values such as freedom and respect for human rights. this is worth fighting for. i will.
the european parliament and the council have adopted a joint resolution on the situation of women in the labour market and the fight against unemployment. we are convinced that free trade and market economies are conducive to economic development and are therefore opposed in principle to financial aid to countries or regions. however, the financial crisis has hit the economies of the member states very hard, and the economic downturn is deeper this time than any other downturn that europe has experienced since the 1930s. if the eu does not act, the unemployed will suffer very badly in the regions of belgium and ireland that have applied for eu aid. the risk of social exclusion and permanent exclusion is high, and we as liberals cannot accept that. we feel strongly for all those affected by the effects of the economic downturn and welcome bridging measures for individuals, such as education. we therefore support the aid measures for the unemployed in the textile sector in the belgian regions of east and west flanders and limburg and in the computer manufacturing sector in the irish counties of limerick, clare, north tipperary and the city of limerick.
in writing. - we believe it is of the utmost importance that women are not subject to violence or sex trafficking. similarly, we take it for granted that we will respect human rights and international conventions relating to refugees. the fact that we as eu citizens should have a stable legal system and that we should all be equal before the law is a matter of course, and that we should also feel safe in the way the authorities treat our personal privacy. many of the 144 points in the motion for a resolution and the 78 amendments tabled to parliament's resolution were of course worth supporting. the resolution and amendments also cover a number of issues, including human rights, discrimination and privacy, which are already covered by previous programmes and also by the treaty of lisbon. we have chosen to vote against a number of amendments in order to obtain a resolution that is even stronger on the issues not already covered by previous programmes and treaties. although there are points in the resolution which were voted on which were not included in the table, we have chosen to vote in favour of the resolution as the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages. it is more important to send a clear and unambiguous message from the european parliament that we support the stockholm programme.
the questioner. - madam president! - what is it? so today is november 25th, the 10th anniversary of the un's establishment of the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i myself have spent my entire adult life working politically in women's organizations, in networks to combat this violence against women. i think i've used all the words in the book to describe the situation. i think i used words, words, words. we have done that together in this fight. now i feel we really need to see action! this is violence that deprives women of their human rights. it affects and shapes women's daily lives. it is a violence that governs the lives and living conditions of women and young girls. we all have a responsibility to break the silence and to work with all the forces of good in parliament and beyond to break this violence. it is about intimate partner violence, sexual harassment, physical and psychological abuse, rape, murder, sex trafficking, female genital mutilation. during war and armed conflict, as well as in post-conflict reconstruction, women are more vulnerable to violence, both individually and collectively. there are those who argue that intimate partner violence is a private matter, a family matter. it is not that, but it is a structural violence and a social issue. the community must take responsibility for breaking the violence. this is a structural and widespread problem in all regions, countries and continents. the elimination of all forms of gender-based violence is fundamental to a society of equality. men's violence against women, i argue, is a clear proof of the unequal power relationship between men and women. at the same time, it helps to maintain this power structure. therefore, the work to stop men's violence against women and children must be based on the recognition that it is a matter of power, control, ideas about gender and sexuality and a prevailing social structure in which men are superior to women. men's violence against women is a clear demonstration of the unequal power relationship between women and men. it's a public health issue. it is a social problem which in addition to all the personal suffering entails a great cost to society. above all, however, it is a gender equality problem. we must therefore tackle the problem of violence against women from a gender perspective. it also means that the eu has the power to take action, and that is the kind of action that i and my colleagues on the committee on women's rights are calling for from the eu. within the eu we have the daphne programme which provides some financial support for various initiatives to combat violence. it is good and necessary, but it is far from sufficient. the committee on women's rights therefore asks the commission and the council, among others, whether it is planned that member states should draw up national action plans to combat violence against women. does the commission intend and does the council support the presentation of draft guidelines for a unified eu strategy? the existing treaty provisions include the obligation to work for equality between women and men. when will the commission organise a european year against violence against women? this is something that parliament has now asked for repeatedly since 1997. it should be time now!
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to say that this is a matter of safety and health. that is why the eu is involved in the first place. we have banned, for example, dcm, dichloromethane, - a matter for which i was responsible - precisely because it affected the health of workers. workers have the right to be protected by european legislation, and we are talking about the health of restaurant and hotel workers. a smoking ban there would save many more lives and stop many more illnesses much better than most of the laws we pass here. it is one of the most effective instruments we can put in place to protect the health of workers at the workplace, not least children and other innocent victims of smoke. dozens of substances in cigarette smoke are so toxic that you must obtain special permits to use them in a laboratory. and we want to release that into people's everyday lives. this is a completely absurd situation. it's not a matter of free choice, because the person who gets sick has not chosen it at all. we can help those people now from getting sick in the future, and we're going to take that chance.
madam president, i would like to thank you. with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, new opportunities have been created to strengthen the social dimension of european cooperation. to do so, we must be able to put these possibilities into practice. a good first step would be for eu member states to ratify all updated ilo conventions as soon as possible. there's also an external dimension. if the eu is to be a serious player in the international effort to improve working and living conditions, it is of the utmost importance that the eu member states also adopt the ilo convention. if we want to influence the situation in third countries, we must first set an example ourselves. i would therefore urge the commission and the swedish presidency to work progressively and to do their utmost to ensure that all the ilo conventions that are up to date are adopted by all the member states. i personally find it a little regrettable that my own member state, sweden, has not ratified fundamental conventions such as no 96 on public procurement. i would therefore urge the presidency to take action at national level to ensure that this happens. this, together with the binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights, would reduce the risk of the ecj coming to further rulings similar to those in the rüffert case. we cannot allow a situation where we have eu legislation that is contrary to fundamental ilo conventions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the court of auditors for a good job and i thank mr kallas, and i am glad that you are continuing. it is quite possible to hear criticism from our british colleagues, but as far as i have seen in the newspapers, many british politicians have been tampering with the money. this does not mean, of course, that we cannot improve, but that the situation in the member states would be so much better than in the eu remains to be seen. in areas where the eu has direct budgetary responsibility, the errors are small. it is the member states which are lacking. of course, €2.7 billion is a very large sum. it's an unreasonably high amount and it can't be. it is a large part of the eu budget and the member states have a clear responsibility here. as several colleagues have said, i think that the commission should ensure that those countries which refuse to disclose their financial statements and audit reports actually do so. you, commissioner, or the commission - you do not know what responsibility you will have in the future - should ensure that these countries actually improve, that information is collected and that follow-up can be checked. it is the taxpayers of europe who are asking for it. in addition, a better and more effective control system is needed, where good examples can be highlighted. mr søndergaard said something at the end of his speech which perhaps is the way forward, namely to find a completely new budgetary system which will enable the member states to control their cash flows better. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. violence against women is a widespread problem throughout europe and the world. in sweden alone, with a population of nine million, 380 women are abused every day. one fifth of the female population is a victim of violence, and 45 percent of all women between the ages of 16 and 64 have been the victims of violence at some point in their lives. this is terribly upsetting. being a victim of domestic violence is an incredible invasion of privacy. women and men should have the same opportunity for bodily integrity. the violence that continues across our continent is proof that the work on gender equality in europe still has a long way to go. the eu cannot continue to turn a blind eye to these facts. i therefore welcome the resolution on the elimination of violence against women and call on the new commission and the council to also take up their responsibilities in this area. i intend to ensure that the commission is forced to put forward proposals to improve the situation with regard to violence against women.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution wholeheartedly because i think that we need to join forces across political groups towards a common goal – to denounce, raise awareness of and combat all forms of violence against women. i am particularly sensitive to the women in conflict as i shared, provided help during, and lived through, all the conflict in bosnia and herzegovina and partly also with the red cross in darfur. i think that we now have a fantastic instrument with the stockholm programme to enable us to move from words to action. i would like to thank the swedish presidency for having included empowerment and combating violence against women in the stockholm programme. i will definitely work towards there being a priority, in the implementation of the stockholm programme, for combating violence against women.
in writing. − i am in favour of the eu being open to countries who meet the criteria for membership. i am concerned that this resolution presents enlargement as being imperative for the countries in question as well as the eu. it does not conceive of the possibility that it may be in the best interests of the countries concerned to remain outside the eu for a variety of social, economic or other reasons. eu membership is a big step for the countries concerned and it deserves the fullest possible debate and consultation involving the citizens of those countries. for this reason i abstained.
in writing. - the resolution on the fao summit and food security, b7-0168/2009 we are concerned about world hunger and believe that the focus on food security is important. however, unlike the resolution, we moderates believe that the cap is part of the problem rather than the solution and needs to be reformed.
the world is in a strange situation: a billion people are obese, while a billion people are hungry. the situation is catastrophic and requires effective action, not least from the rich eu. however, we do not believe that the eu's common agricultural policy, as it stands today, is the solution. the agricultural policy has historically been successful, but it is not the policy of the future. however, since this resolution opposes a change in the current european agricultural aid system (which could benefit the climate, the world's poor and europe's farmers), we have seen no alternative but to abstain.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. today, more than a billion people suffer from hunger. moreover, sharp price fluctuations and a dramatic rise in the price of food on the world market have caused a global food crisis, making it even more difficult for the world's poor to obtain food. we would point out, however, that we do not share the view of parliament that market support measures and aid payments to farmers should be abstained from under the eu's common agricultural policy. we do not believe that these aid measures and the payments in the extension of the aid are contributing to food security in the developing countries - on the contrary, these measures have the opposite effect. subsidized, cheap european food is exported to developing countries and, through its competitive prices, often outstrips the developing countries' own food production, leaving these countries with no chance of more long-term self-sufficiency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. anti-semitism is spreading throughout the world. in our europe too, within the eu. it must be a matter of course for the european parliament to deal with this hydra and to try to contain this hydra, which is taking up more and more space in the widest circles. it must also be made clear that one can of course criticize the policies of the state of israel, just as one can criticize any other state, because no state functions perfectly. but the policy of the state of israel must be kept separate from anti-semitism. i believe that the european parliament will vigorously oppose any tendency towards anti-semitism. at present, these trends are numerous and widespread.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there may be reason to remember in a debate like this that it is globalisation that has made europe rich, that has created jobs and investment. exports have created room for new businesses and large companies to grow. imports have created opportunities for citizens to live a good life with products and services at cheap prices, and all of this has created renewal. it is a wide-ranging change that is constantly taking place, bringing new businesses, new jobs and new opportunities. it is a broad change that is affecting our entire society and that should never be reversed. however, the transition must be facilitated for the people concerned. it must be the responsibility of each member state to ensure that this transition is carried out safely and with good opportunities. the european union cannot offer these possibilities in the case of an individual fund. the change is so big and so significant. it may create a false image if we think that this can be solved by a globalisation fund. we have been opposed to the creation of this. but we also see that we have a special situation in europe in the automobile industry, with a variety of grants from the european and national levels, where we risk not only the distortion that comes from public grants to individual operators, but where we now also see that the distortion risks becoming greater if there is no equal opportunity for companies and businesses in different regions to receive the same support. it is against this background that we will vote in favour of this proposal, because we have now reached a stage in the grant procedure where the result would otherwise be that the absence of aid would distort competition. but we also stress that this is not the way forward.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. president. - the debate is closed. if unemployment is to be reduced, the eu must take greater responsibility together with the member states. the proposal on microcredit is an initiative on which parliament has been a driving force. it is about giving the unemployed a fresh start and opening the door to entrepreneurship for some of the most vulnerable groups in the eu, including young people. the proposal will facilitate small-scale investments and provide opportunities for micro-enterprises to grow. after some minor changes and clarifications, the proposal received broad support in the economic and monetary affairs committees. the issue that has created debate is the financing, which was also mentioned here. the commission proposed that no additional money be made available, but that the funds be taken from the progress programme. however, this view was not shared by the committee responsible, as someone wrongly claimed. this is the situation today. i must say that i find it strange that the council is so adamant in rejecting our proposal for 150 million over the period - cheerfully and cheaply in these difficult times!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for coming here to inform us of this important matter. we have a very great responsibility to see that our children are not exposed to danger or ill health. i have a few questions i would like to ask about the commitments made by the commission in the negotiations leading up to the vote at first reading, but also to our vote in plenary on the toy directive. the negotiating groups agreed, among other things, to remove certain noise level restrictions, as the texts voted on in committee contained specific decibel values. the commission said that the levels might be too high and promised to develop a standard based on maximum levels for sustained and short sounds instead. how far has the commission come in ensuring that toys do not cause hearing damage? when can we expect a standard of maximum noise level for toys? i would also like to raise the question of the text sizes of warning texts. we were told that this too would be solved by standardization. what is the commission's view on the rules to be applied here? when can we expect a standard to include minimum text sizes for warning texts?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i want to say a big thank you to everyone involved. it's been a negotiation that's produced results. we have a few remaining problems for second reading and all the parties concerned have contributed to this in a good way. although it took a long time, it was certainly important that we were able to finance the economic recovery plan without putting off solutions for the future. we were pleased that the council finally accepted our approach, that is to say that the solution required new money and the use of the so-called flexibility instrument, just as in the case of kosloduy. however, on some points i am still surprised by the attitude of the council and the swedish presidency. i had not thought, for example, that there would be opposition to parliament's proposal to give the new baltic sea strategy its own new money. i am glad, however, that there has been a compromise on that point too. the other surprising thing, which is still not fully resolved, is the progress programme and the new micro-credit facility. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this is particularly important as 2010 is the european year of social inclusion. it is difficult to understand why the council and the swedish presidency seem to be fighting so hard to the last to ensure that the new micro-credit facility is financed by cuts in the progress programme. i have a direct question to the swedish presidency: in the face of high unemployment, growing exclusion and major integration difficulties, and an exceptionally well-functioning progress programme, why is the council insisting on the need to cut back on progress? the budgetary negotiations this year meant that almost all new priorities had to be financed by changes in the ceilings of the long-term framework and by the use of the flexibility instrument. there's hardly any margins left. the framework will be in place for three more years, but to live with those conditions for that long will be completely unreasonable. i therefore have one more question to put to both the commission and the council: what is your position on parliament's call for a rapid and vigorous revision of the financial framework for the period 2011-2013? we believe that the remaining three years of budgetary negotiations will be a pain in the ass if no change is made, especially considering that we are facing both a new enlargement and new major commitments in the field of climate. in my view, the principle should be that new tasks mean new resources. this principle is mostly national and should also apply to the eu. i would be very grateful for some reflection on this.
mr president, at the beginning of this week’s part-session you answered a question from my austrian colleague jörg leichtfried on the new members joining this parliament as a result of the lisbon treaty and when that could take place. you answered that this is now up to the council. i agree as regards them joining this parliament as full members, but i am not sure that this is the case when it comes to their status as observers as an introduction to actually becoming full members. i interpret the decision we took recently on david martin’s report on our own internal rules so that we are actually free to let them start working as observers as soon as they are elected and their election confirmed by their member state, and that we as a parliament can decide ourselves on the conditions for their position as observers. mr president, could you please discuss this with the rapporteur, mr martin, in order to come to a solution as soon as possible? it would be unreasonable if new members who are already elected and whose election has been confirmed by the national authorities have to wait for months and months before they can actually start working. many of them are prepared to start immediately.
mr president, i have noticed that you have given almost one minute more speaking time to some of our colleagues. i would like to remind you that we from small countries, as newly elected members, have only one strict minute for ‘catch the eye’, and this time has been taken away from our opportunity to express our views. please respect us as well.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i have two brief remarks to make. firstly i would like to thank members for their kind words – also other words, but mainly kind words and kind comments. we now have a new european union based on the lisbon treaty, and i could say, being involved in the rotating presidency, that, to make this europe work for the future, it will be a combination of taking responsibility on the part of member states, the commission and this parliament. it will be very difficult, without full responsibility taken by all these parties, to get this work on track. just a few comments on trying to coordinate 27 member states. that takes time, but, without doing that, we get a situation where this european union is managed by just a few or by someone else. we have taken that time. i know how much time you need to make this coordination, and i think that will be obvious also for herman van rompuy and also the still ongoing rotating presidency. my second comment concerns copenhagen. i frequently hear this: europe is not leading, and in my country the opposition says that sweden is not leading: it is the will to bash on ourselves. then show me who the leader is. i would like to know that, because it would be perfect to see that leader and to follow their initiatives. i have not seen that yet. we are committing ourselves to reductions, legally based, earlier on the table, with concrete financing that i have not seen from other parts of the developing world. also, when it comes to copenhagen, i think it is very important to remember that we need to keep the 2°c target. i am not sure that we will be able to deliver that. i know that europe has done its part and is ready to move to 30%, but we cannot solve the problem alone. we only stand for 13% of global emissions. if this is to be a global answer, it must be global response, and then we also need the other major emitters to make bigger commitments. a few words on sweden, since that was mentioned. i think it is very important, after making these kinds of commitments – whether it is kyoto or now an agreement in copenhagen – to go home and do your job. we updated just yesterday the reduction of emissions that has been done in sweden since 1990. we are now down to -12%. we are following how this is internationally respected, the way it is presented. we could always say that that is the wrong way of dealing with it, but that is the global agreement the world has. concerning that, we have presented these kinds of figures. of course it is troublesome that some other countries are going in the other direction, and they are getting criticised for that. so it is not just striking a deal: it is also about making the changes in your economy using emission trading and other means to get the change in place. that is also an area where you see a lot of european countries acting in a way that is lacking in other parts of the world.
president of the commission. − mr president, just two remarks: the first on copenhagen, and the other on the successful swedish presidency. first of all, regarding copenhagen, i am also very surprised when i see many european colleagues with a self-defeating rhetoric. in fact, if there is a field where we can be proud of the leadership role of the european union, it is precisely on climate change. show me one relevant player or a group of countries that have committed as far as we have been committing ourselves. as i said earlier, some others have announced their intentions through press statements. the european union has announced its intentions through legislation which is already binding: legislation which originated from the european commission, which received the support of the european council and of this parliament, and – unilaterally and unconditionally – the european union has already put the reduction of greenhouse gases at 20% by 2020. no other player has done anything comparable so far. so let us ask others to do something similar to our effort. (applause)is this enough to reach the 2°c? no, it is not enough. that is why we are telling others that we can negotiate with each other. politicians and diplomats can negotiate, but we cannot negotiate with science; we cannot negotiate with physics. so let us have a global deal which allows us to reach an agreement compatible with what science tells us. that cannot be done only by europe, because europe is responsible for about 14% of global emissions, and the trend is to go down in relevant terms. so, even if europe, tomorrow, stops completely its greenhouse gas emissions, it will not solve the problem. so we need americans on board, we need chinese on board, we need indians on board. during these six months, together with prime minister reinfeldt, we spoke with obama; we spoke with hu and wen; we spoke with singh; we spoke with medvedev; we spoke with lola. and i can say that, in all those meetings, we were the ones asking them to come with more important offers. this is what we are now doing at copenhagen – not to forget – because sometimes people tend to forget – that it is not just a game between those players but also with developing countries: the poorest, most vulnerable, the african countries. we also spoke with meles zenawi of ethiopia and others. that is why the european union was the first to put some money on the table. so let us be honest with each other. we can always have more ambition, and the european union has been showing its ambition. but let us ask also for more ambition from others. because only with this ambition can we have a deal which is compatible with our ambition. it is a global problem and we need a global solution. finally, let me say a word to prime minister reinfeldt and the swedish presidency. this is the last time we will have a president of the european council only for six months, so it was the end of many years of european union work. i want to say – and i said it to president reinfeldt during these six months – that he was the 11th president of the european council with whom i have worked, so i really welcome the fact that now we are going to have a permanent president of the european council. but i would like to say to prime minster reinfeldt that he was the 11th in the order of working with the commission, but certainly he deserves a place on the podium as one of the best presidencies we have had during this period for the european union. thank you for everything you and the swedish presidency have been doing during these six months.
mr president, i hesitate to phrase it in this way because it does not sound very modest as a swede, but i think it is fair to say that the european union and europe will not be the same after this presidency. it is a different european union – a stronger and a better union – for a number of reasons, some of which i as a swede am very proud to mention. first of all, of course, the treaty that is now in place is changing the institutional balance of this union, but it is also making it more capable of achieving our political goals. i would like to point to the fact that we have opened up the process of enlargement by the agreement between slovenia and croatia, which is important for croatia, but also in the perspective of the western balkans and their ongoing future process of enlargement. this is one of the strengths of the european union, but it is also an opportunity for all of us. i think it is also important to point to the fact that, during this presidency and while we are standing here, the european union is, for the first time, a leading global actor in one of the most important international issues mankind is facing. this is new and it gives great responsibilities for the future because it is obvious that, whatever is achieved in copenhagen, the european union has been playing a fundamental and crucial role in setting the agenda for the things that we should achieve. however successful we are, the job will not be finished, but it underlines the great responsibilities of the european union. then we have the economic recovery, with strict rules for getting public finances in order and for hindering protectionism. i am a swede, so i may be a little subjective on this issue, but i think we all have a reason to be proud of what we have achieved during this period. but we should, in all modesty, also remember that those achievements give us a great responsibility for the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that the presidency has lived up to the high expectations of an efficient and diplomatic machine. it has been appreciated, not least because of the chaos that partly prevailed during the czech presidency. the final steps of the lisbon treaty have also been handled in a very positive way. finally, the permanent president of the council and the new eu foreign minister were also presented. unfortunately, the political impact on issues that have a direct impact on people's daily lives is less. the european workers have received no support in stopping the wage dumping in the wake of the laval case. nor have they seen any new initiatives to combat unemployment and create more jobs. the environmental movement is disappointed that sweden has not stood up for environmental issues. sweden has rather taken a step backwards rather than seizing the opportunity to push for higher environmental and climate ambitions. the fact that sweden has not been given a more important role at the climate summit in copenhagen is due to the fact that prime minister reinfeldt himself, for party tactical reasons, played down expectations for the summit at an early stage. it violated the eu's negotiating strategy and angered a number of other european leaders. but more serious than that, it undermined the prospects for a good climate deal. finally, i would like to mention the stockholm programme, one of the few things that will survive the swedish presidency. as a stockholm resident, i am concerned that my home town may be associated with a political programme that is more concerned with building walls around europe than with guaranteeing human rights. we swedish social democrats are glad that you have finally listened in part to our demands and those of parliament to include more women's and children's rights in this programme. we have high expectations that cecilia malmström will do her utmost to further strengthen those elements in her new position.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish presidency has worked well, both practically and institutionally. it's been like a nice engine, well-oiled, but it's been idling. where has the social legislation gone? the anti-discrimination work is stuck. the proposal to introduce a euro coin to curb emissions from lorry traffic has stalled, as has climate policy. the leadership on these issues has been taken over by the scientists and the european parliament the council has failed! the council acts as a crawling hole for the forestry, shipping and aviation industries in the climate negotiations. where is the money for the developing countries, the concrete 30 billion that parliament called for? where are the emissions targets? parliament called for cuts of 32-40%. now we're being told that the documents the council is working on are further weakening our emissions targets. the council's climate policy seems as crude as a blue whale fishing net, or worse! finally, the waterfall. stop the lawsuits against vattenfall! they're working against climate change. you have the power over this company. so at least make sure vattenfall does its job and stop questioning the environmental laws of the eu and germany.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also give the swedish presidency a very high mark in terms of organisation. the swedish state administration has lived up to all expectations. unfortunately, i cannot be as positive when it comes to the political evaluation. there are two areas in particular which need to be criticized. firstly, in terms of openness and publicity. sweden is usually considered an example in this area, but now we have seen passivity and this is particularly serious when the freedom of communication of citizens is threatened. i would like to mention the data retention directive, the telecom package, etc., and the secret acta agreement. the presidency has been called upon to act to make documents available, which has been possible since the 2001 amendment to the transparency regulation, which requires that 'all documents relating to ongoing international negotiations shall be made available to the public'. why has the swedish presidency not acted on such a matter? the second area is about climate and, i would argue, the betrayal of poor countries that it means to use aid money to repair the worst damage the rich world has suffered and is suffering. even though the unfccc, the bali plan and the kyoto protocol say that money for climate finance should be new. once again, the most vulnerable are the ones who bear the brunt of the actions of the rich world. it is those who lack clean water, those threatened by malaria, those affected by hiv, and above all the world's poorest women and children who are now paying the price. it's a policy that's shameful to the poor world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is strange to hear some whiners, including swedish colleagues, criticise the swedish presidency. what does carl schlyter compare it to? is it the czech republic or some other big-mouth presidency? getting a high score from mario borghezio is not something you should expect either. getting a bad grade from borghezio is actually a good grade. a lot has been done. the treaty of lisbon has been signed. the two highest posts in the eu are occupied. the commission has not yet presented a number of important proposals: the stockholm programme, the future financial supervision and, in particular, the telecommunications package. the copenhagen climate summit can also move in the right direction if we in the european parliament want it to. on the downside, i'd like to put the failure on patient mobility. this means continued legal uncertainty and unnecessary suffering in the care queues. but overall, congratulations to prime minister fredrik reinfeldt, eu minister cecilia malmström and everyone else in the presidency team. you all deserve a happy new year!
mr president, i would like to thank you. building bridges is never easy. building bridges across which 27 member states and 500 million people will cross from the old eu to with the new lisbon treaty a more open, more transparent and more democratic eu is particularly difficult, as the european parliament now has much more influence. in the fall, we've had both a climate crisis and a jobs crisis to deal with. nevertheless, the swedish presidency has succeeded in getting some very important eco-efficient legislation in place. i am particularly pleased that the eu energy labelling of household products has now been introduced. other examples of legislation now in place are energy efficiency requirements for buildings and eco-labelling of car tyres. finally, i would like to thank the government for an effective and coherent presidency. i would like to pay particular tribute to ambassador ulrika barklund larsson, who was so hastily taken from us in the autumn. she did a great job and we miss her very much. now the final, biggest and most long-term task is the completion of the copenhagen climate summit. good luck with that.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the swedish presidency for the vision of a citizen-centred europe laid down in the stockholm programme. we can never underline enough the historic importance of finally having a vision that meets our citizens’ concerns for security and at the same time for respecting individual rights. finally we can move forward to a europe for the citizen, by the citizen. i also would like to welcome the asylum support office, which is an important and concrete step towards meeting the concerns of countries that want to fight illegal immigration while at the same time providing for a more humane migration policy. the stockholm programme will remain with us for five years, and i hope we can move forward to implementation. i thank the swedish presidency. your footprint will remain with us for five years.
in writing. - sweden has applied for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund in view of the redundancies in the swedish automotive sector. we are convinced that free trade and market economies are conducive to economic development and are therefore opposed in principle to financial aid to countries or regions. however, this economic crisis is deeper than any other crisis europe has experienced since the 1930s and has hit car manufacturers in sweden particularly hard, and volvo cars in particular. the redundancies carried out by volvo cars are considered by the commission to have 'significant negative consequences for the local and regional economy' in western sweden. volvo cars is of great importance for employment in western sweden. if the european parliament does not act, the workers of volvo cars and its subcontractors would be hit very hard. the risk of social exclusion and permanent exclusion is high, and we as liberals cannot accept that. we feel strongly about all those affected by unemployment and would like to see educational initiatives for them. sweden is a net contributor to the eu and therefore it is important that employees of companies operating in sweden also receive support from the eu when the economic crisis affects these people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is almost impossible to take in the terrible statistics mentioned here, and yet we know that they are accurate. however, there is a feeling, perhaps shared by many, that when it comes to the poorest of the poor countries in sub-saharan africa, the commitment is not as strong and as concrete as it should be. there has been mention here of military power. i think we all agree that the fight against poverty and corruption is essential if we are to achieve any improvement in the situation of the people of a country which has suffered so horribly. we like to talk about afghanistan and a lot about the terror there and, quite rightly, about what the taliban are doing. but here we have a people who have suffered and are suffering under the most horrible conditions. i would like to stress that there are non-profit organisations that can make a difference if they are linked to state aid and eu aid, but that can often seem very difficult.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. the plan is an important step towards collectively recovering the eu from the financial and economic crisis. however, a large part of the recovery plan consists of investments in ccs technology. we are in favour of further research in this area, but we believe that too much emphasis should not be placed on this technology without first also comparing ccs with other existing methods of reducing co2 emissions. such a comparison then allows us to invest eu funds where they have the greatest impact in combating climate change. we support the budgetary agreement and voted yes to all the parts, except the requirement to introduce a permanent milk levy, which we voted against.
in writing. - we believe that agricultural policy must be liberalised and market-oriented in order to benefit consumers and rural areas. a thorough reform of the cap is therefore necessary. all forms of export and production aid to agriculture should be abolished as soon as possible, by 2015 at the latest. the abolition of eu and us subsidies to their agriculture is also central to fighting global poverty and hunger. during the same period, all trade barriers for agricultural products and fish will be removed, so that full free trade also applies to food. the part of the eu budget 2010 concerning agriculture, 'heading 2 conservation and management of natural resources', which constitutes the so-called 'block 3', contains interventions and support measures we we oppose. these include various storage measures, including for alcohol, and substantial eu support for the wine sector. it is also about eu support for milk and fruit in schools, an important issue in itself, but one which we believe should rather be dealt with at national level. at the same time, the group includes important initiatives on, among other things, animal welfare and the control of animal transport, which we would in principle welcome. however, since the voting procedure forces us to take a position on the group of amendments as a whole, we have therefore chosen to abstain from voting on block 3.
