i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask the question to my predecessor. he said the system works in principle. i wonder if he knows that it wasn't the system that exposed it, but consumers who helped to uncover it. secondly, i would ask the rapporteur, in view of his information, whether he is aware of studies showing that people are quite willing to pay a little more if they can be sure that the products are of the right kind and of high quality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. european consumers are alarmed by the german dioxin scandal and are rightly demanding maximum safety and full traceability in food production. finally, the international reputation of agriculture has been damaged by the negligent behaviour of feed companies. the commission is urgently called upon to restore confidence in european quality agricultural production, which meets the highest standards. the full investigation of those responsible and the limitation of damage in the german dioxin scandal are only the beginning. it is necessary to take rapid and comprehensive measures to prevent such practices by feed manufacturers in the future. the food chain is not a dumping ground and industrial waste products have not lost anything in animal feed. i am in favour of stricter and uniform rules throughout the eu, especially in transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. no farmer who is audited several times a year can understand the current control practices of feed companies. nevertheless, it should be noted that the case just discussed was brought to the fore by a self-report and the competent authorities reacted correctly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thousands of lives are at stake. last friday the producer price in the pigmeat sector fell by 23 cents a kilogram. by the turn of the year, the masters had already suffered a 13 cent drop. the situation is aggravated by the fact that the cost of feed has risen sharply in recent weeks. we need to find a quick solution here. the confidence of consumers in agricultural products must not be jeopardized by greed and negligence.
i have to say, madam president, for me, it's not negligence, but criminal intent. what do we need? we need a few important points: mandatory labelling throughout the eu. but not only the place of slaughter, but also the place of origin must be indicated. consumers are being deliberately deceived. studies show very clearly that people are willing to spend money. they just want to know where the product is coming from and where it really came from. secondly, we need to tighten up the controls. after all, it was not food inspectors or the eu food safety agency who made the finding, but the company itself. thirdly, we need a clear separation between dietary fats and the production of fats for technical purposes. i agree with pythagoras, who once again put it very well: 'for everything that man does to animals, is ultimately returned to man.'
the commission has already done so. i am not an agricultural romantic, which means that i do not believe in the advertising of happy chickens and happy pigs, because i experience something different every day. but i still believe that consumers in europe have a right to food that is safe. so the first big demand: we need strict controls, and we need strict penalties. but we also need - and i think this has been made clear in today's debate - a different agricultural structure in europe. today we have commissioner dalli sitting in front of us, who is in charge of health, and he is the one who is going to kiss my hand. we must also learn from this scandal and, in the direction of agricultural reform, ensure that in europe there is a structure in agriculture which meets the needs of farmers and farmers on the one hand, but also ensures the safety of consumers on the other. i would ask that we really learn from this scandal.
i have to say, madam president, the partnership agreement with cameroon in the forestry sector is, in my view, commendable and is also very appropriate for the sake of image in the context of the eu's international year of forests. but whether the agreement is worth the paper it is signed on is unfortunately in doubt. after all, corruption is the order of the day in cameroon. environmental groups accuse the state of being aware of the forest industry's environmental crimes, but corruption prevents control and prosecution. after all, foreign companies are said to control more than 60% of the timber extraction and processing and three quarters of timber exports. only if it is ensured that foreign companies no longer pimp out domestic firms that lack the forestry and environmental expertise, and if cameroon gets its hands on corruption, does such an agreement make sense. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of forestry in the eu, including the establishment of a european forestry agency.
i have to say, madam president, i think we will be dealing with wood much more intensively in the future. it is therefore important for the agreement to give appropriate support to research and, above all, to provide training and further training so that small and mediumsized enterprises in cameroon and the congo can develop ecologically in this area. so i'm glad that this discussion is taking place. it is important for all of us that the demand for wood is guaranteed in the future.
i have to say, madam president, 40% of cameroon is covered by forest. no, we must say, because although cameroon is the largest exporter of tropical timber in africa, no other country is deforesting so heavily. experts estimate that in 10 to 15 years, ecologically valuable tree species will be gone from the congo basin if deforestation continues at this rate. what can be done? the fight against corruption, both at the level of officials and private farmers, the continuation of effective law enforcement and, of course, sustainable economic development are essential for the protection of cameroon's tropical forests. where much is cut, some must grow back. and it is essential to improve training in woodworking to avoid early damage during logging. the european companies must be the first to take responsibility, since some 80% of the proceeds are shipped to europe. the eu must also act accordingly to intervene directly. volunteering is good, but in this context we are not getting on a good footing and on a green leaf. we must make the companies pay!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in conjunction with the current market situation, the reform of the eu sugar market regulation has the effect of keeping the eu sugar price below the international price. the long-term purchasing contracts with the raw sugar producers in africa, the caribbean or the pacific will probably be very difficult to maintain in this price situation. the fact that farmers in the acp states prefer to sell their produce at higher prices on the world market rather than at a lower price in the eu may have played a role in the difficulties surrounding the new acp agreements. if this incentive is to be abolished and at the same time a most favoured nation clause is to be accepted, and if, in addition, government revenue is to be reduced by the abolition of customs revenue, it is no wonder that the acp states were so hesitant. in this context, attention will certainly have to be paid to fisheries, and not just to whether papua new guinea and fiji have granted access to their fishing waters to other trading partners. perhaps it should also be clarified whether the allegations that the spanish fishing fleet, for example, has moved to the pacific ocean because of eu restrictions and fishing quotas and is fishing under a foreign flag are true.
in writing. children are among the most vulnerable members of our society, especially when they are orphaned, abandoned or abused. in international adoption, children who are torn from their familiar surroundings often suffer massive damage. the child's welfare must therefore always be the priority. the un must also take note of this: last year, a campaign on subway tickets was launched in mexico city, aimed at gay couples' right to adopt. media reports suggest that this campaign was supported by the un! this, despite the fact that psychologists acknowledge the central importance of growing up with a father and a mother as identification figures! especially for adopted children, who often do not have the best chance of starting out as such, stable family relationships are particularly important. difficult situations may arise in any partnership, but the best interests of the child should not be the reason for pre-programming problems!
mr president, with regard to article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights, and to article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, i was informed that, on christmas day, a massive abuse of religious freedom took place in the church of st synesios in the occupied town of rizokarpaso. the so-called authorities, supported by turkey, had stopped the saturday service on the pretext that no application had been made to hold the mass that day, although according to the church of cyprus, such permission was requested at the beginning of december, as has been the case for the last 36 years. mr president, i strongly encourage you to take the appropriate steps to guarantee religious freedom on the soil of a european union member state.
in writing. the own-initiative report recognises that agriculture is of strategic importance for global food security. looking ahead, the urgency of action is clear: experts expect the world's food demand to double by 2050. agriculture must be prepared to meet the enormous demand for safe and sufficient food for the growing population. at the same time, the obstacles posed by the limitation of natural resources, high energy prices and climate change must be addressed. i supported the report, which clearly shows that food security is also a key concern in the european union and calls for coordination of the various policy areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the common agricultural policy. the protection of farmers' incomes and the provision of sufficient quality food must therefore be central objectives of the common european agricultural policy. the high volatility of market prices in the agricultural sector, caused by crop failures and speculation and concentration in trade, is a major factor of uncertainty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the unemployed, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. it is important that these market intervention mechanisms play a central role in the future cap. another important point is the recommendation to build up food stocks and emergency reserves worldwide.
i have to say, madam president, i have been in croatia in recent days and there has never been so much talk about serbia as in these days, and in a very positive sense, because exactly what mr brok has just mentioned: the courageous steps taken by mr tadić together with president josipović - i also know that deputy prime minister đelić is making a special effort here - are essential steps towards europe. these are elements of regional cooperation, but regional cooperation has great political and humanitarian significance. i therefore agree with mr brok and the other members that it is very important that we encourage serbia to take these steps. this of course also concerns relations with bosnia and herzegovina. we all know how important it is that serbia is engaged in a positive way serbia and croatia so that this country can hold together and also carry out the appropriate reforms. in this respect, serbia is really very brave and very crucial for regional cooperation. the critical element i would like to mention, however, is cooperation with the icty. i had invited mr brammertz to join the working party of the foreign affairs committee which i chair. we are not entirely satisfied with that, there could be more. the proposals have not yet been fully implemented. so i would ask everyone to push for this to be done. as mrs koppa has said, this is not just a european question. serbia must work out these things for serbia itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i too have a clear 'yes' to serbia's accession to the european union and to the fact that the serbian people have a future in a common europe, as does the whole of the western balkans. i will also give the green light to the stabilisation and association agreement, although i must also say that cooperation with the icty is not yet what it should be. i hope that there will be a majority in this house for our amendment and that mr brammertz's words will apply here in future. i would like to thank mr kacin for the report, for its very positive reporting on the progress made in serbia, but also on the points where there are still problems. as regards relations with the republic of kosovo, i, as the rapporteur for kosovo in this parliament, appeal to the serbian leadership. i was following very closely the words of deputy prime minister đelić yesterday, that there is a willingness here to this historic agreement, but that it must also be made clear that the dialogue between the republic of serbia and the republic of kosovo ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, contrary to the view of eu euphoricists, accession to the union alone is not enough to resolve all conflicts in the air. in particular, the eu is seen to be a double standard when compared with turkey, a candidate country. the european union is ready to talk to kosovo, but the eu's position is certainly inconsistent. in bosnia, several ethnic groups are being pushed into a multicultural state, whereas in the case of kosovo, it is legitimate for an ethnic group to break away from a state. not only is serbia ready to talk, but there was also an excuse for the genocide in srebrenica. the eu has also been criticised for its lack of cooperation with the hague tribunal. the human rights violations in turkey, where talk of the armenian genocide alone is enough to punish, appear to be negligible. the allegation of organ trafficking against kosovo prime minister thaçi also illustrates that war crimes cannot be seen as a one-sided matter. these allegations must be clarified to the letter. it is very important for eu membership that serbia and kosovo first resolve their conflicts.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the council, mr barroso! this week we have the opportunity to compare two presidencies, the one that has ended and the one that has already begun. the belgian presidency has done an excellent job. thank you very much. despite difficult conditions, the political situation at home is not easy, lisbon is new, and relations with the european council are not easy. but there was a clear orientation towards europe. they wanted to move europe forward. on the other hand, we have seen - so far, at least - a hungarian presidency that is more concerned with what is happening at home, in the sense of maintaining power at home, with a very controversial media law that we will discuss later. i hope that mr orbán will look closely at the belgian presidency and perhaps take a little bit of an example from it. you have spoken, mr prime minister, mr president-in-office, of economic governance. i can only agree with what president barroso has said. there's only one "either/or". there is either another crisis in europe - not just in the eurozone - or there is the attempt to establish efficient economic governance on the basis of cooperation between all the member states, but also on the basis of strong european commission activity. you know, mr president barroso, that we fully support them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. you said that it was mainly about fiscal, fiscal and social cooperation. i come now to the second point which this belgian presidency has made very clear, namely the social dimension. i think we are all interested - perhaps with different priorities - in seeing this social dimension developed accordingly. social europe does not mean that everything and everything in the field of social policy is done by europe, but for example what you have said and done to combat poverty. it is a shame to see poverty in europe increasing in some areas. and what you said about the increasingly unequal distribution of income. you have made it clear during your presidency that this is not just a social issue, it is also an economic issue. more poverty, more social inequality means also a loss of competitiveness. this is economically, economically and empirically proven. what you said is very important. the same is true of what you said about the people's europe. you have made a concrete contribution, together with vice-president šefčovič and our colleagues on the european citizens' initiative. this is a great step forward if it is also used by the pro-european forces to bring europe closer to the citizens. we will of course continue to wish belgium well. it is not unimportant how the political situation develops. i hope that all the political forces in belgium will try to find a real consensus. it is difficult to tell people in crisis regions: 'find a consensus, work together on important issues' when this is not possible in belgium, a heartland of the european union. i wish you well in that regard, you have been an exemplary presidency in many respects. i hope that other presidencies will follow suit. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).
mr president, i am familiar with this kind of argument, which states that if you criticise a government, you criticise its people. it was like this in former times in my own country too. let us be clear. we did not start the debate. it was the hungarian government with this – as i said here – contested law. it is a law greatly disputed by many hungarian citizens who suffered under communism and during the nazi regime. they are afraid that their liberty of expression is in danger. that is the thing that should be addressed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. belgium has certainly assumed the presidency of the council of the european union in a very difficult transitional period, since on the one hand the economic crisis has not yet been overcome and on the other hand the treaty of lisbon has not yet been fully implemented or its conditional suitability has become apparent. however, in the whole debate on the euro rescue package, one essential aspect must not be forgotten, namely that both the euro rescue package and the loans to greece are in breach of the lisbon treaty. the two measures therefore lack the legal basis for their adoption. this is clearly an overstepping of competence which ultimately makes an ordinary contract modification procedure unavoidable. spain is another eurozone worrying child, alongside other bailout candidates such as ireland and portugal. on the other hand, net contributors such as germany and austria are gradually becoming the eu's milk cows. of course, this cannot go on. belgium has not really been able to cope with both the admittedly difficult challenges of managing the crisis on the one hand and implementing the lisbon treaty on the other.
in writing. for the past six months, belgium has held the eu presidency and hardly anyone has taken note. belgium has been busy - and unsuccessful - with the formation of a new government, and the dispute between flanders and wallonia has left the country politically incapable of acting. it was therefore no wonder that the eu political establishment had an easy time pushing centralism further within the european union. the euro crisis was used to plan for a european economic government. and the so-called permanent bailout of the euro is nothing but a blow to the net contributors, who will have to go even deeper into the pocket in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. belgium, where the differences between flemish and walloon are clearly insurmountable and where the whole state is a redistributive machine from flemish to walloon, shows what is threatening to happen to the european union and the eurozone if the existing paths of error are followed.
in writing. - it is certainly a relief to codify after a certain number of amendments in order to preserve clarity. in general, however, it is necessary to consider whether the multiplicity of regulations is necessary at all. in some areas, exaggeration is being done and the consumer is hardly allowed to use his own common sense, while in others, for example, food is being changed to conform to the name of the product. in order to protect the interests of members and third parties, coordination of the laws of the member states on the merger of public limited liability companies is appropriate to ensure that the rights to information are respected. i cannot agree with some of the amendments, which is why i rejected the report as a whole.
in writing. - i have agreed to the decision on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, given that all the conditions were fulfilled and that this was primarily a formal act.
in writing. − in order to create a common basis for flights to non-eu countries and to ensure legal certainty, all bilateral agreements need to be reviewed. the commission, acting on the authorization of the council, has negotiated an agreement with the west african economic and monetary union (waemu) to replace the 47 existing bilateral air transport agreements between the eu and waemu member states. i am voting for the report because a general agreement makes sense in this context.
in writing. − this agreement merely replaces the 47 bilateral treaties with the various member states, giving the eu more powers in foreign policy. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the construction industry is one of the largest economic factors in europe. but the crisis has hit this sector hard. smes, which are often suppliers, have suffered particularly badly, many having to close down. in order to ensure the survival of businesses and thus jobs, trade barriers should be removed. this could create a fairer environment for the benefit of all concerned. that is why i voted against the proposals of the committee responsible at second reading.
in writing. - the report goes too far in its harmonisation measures. the construction sector is a sensitive sector: it is of central importance for the development of infrastructure and thus also for the economic location of the member state. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. each member state should largely decide this on its own. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the report on the implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid contains some important proposals which need to be addressed in the future. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of disaster prevention. the improvement of coordination not only between member states but also at international level with the united nations is also important. the approach of buying food and other supplies locally in the event of disasters and thus supporting the local economy is also sensible. unfortunately, however, the report is too imprecise and too unambitious on some points, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - unfortunately, the text adopted by the conservatives proposes a more expeditious procedure in the eu for authorising the import of new feed variants containing genetically modified organisms (gmos) whose safety has been demonstrated. the need for food must not be met by genetic engineering methods. i remain firmly opposed to genetically modified food and remind the european commission of the precautionary principle: even if there are scientific studies that consider genetically modified food not to be harmful to health, there may not yet be the right testing methods to determine this. finally, we must respect the wishes of consumers who reject this type of food.
in writing. - agriculture is of enormous importance for global food security, so we must act! the protection of farmers' incomes and the provision of sufficient quality food must therefore be central objectives of the common european agricultural policy. the fluctuating market prices in the agricultural sector are also uncertainties and must be addressed. i support the report which clearly shows that food security is also a key concern in the european union and calls for coordination of the various policy areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − the problem with food security is that eu member states are losing their capacity to feed themselves. the worrying trend of the shift from the main occupation of farming to the secondary occupation and the death of farmers has not yet been stopped. so when we talk about food security, we need to find ways of stopping this worrying trend and raising consumer awareness of regional products. in particular, eu support for reducing cross-eu food transport should be examined in this context. this is not only good for the environment and helps to meet the kyoto targets for emissions reduction, but also reduces noise exposure for people, especially along transit routes. finally, consideration should be given to the extent to which alternative propulsion systems can be further promoted, as biofuel production is beginning to displace conventional farming, and this is reflected in food shortages and food prices. these aspects are covered in the report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - the report contains some very good approaches, such as incentives for traditional, organic farming, support for smallholders in particular, and protection of domestic farmers from the competitive pressure of third countries with much lower quality standards. on the other hand, the rapporteur is in favour of the use of gmos. i therefore abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have the energy summit on february 4th. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a transparent manner. in both cases we would have to think about how to reconcile these two options in a sustainable way. this is about the environment and energy production. i believe that the approval procedure in this area should not take more than one year. the commission has proposed five years at present. i think that five years - that's a whole legislative term - is no longer possible in this dynamic. is the commission prepared to reduce the time accordingly? is it possible to adapt the water framework directive so that in the future storage power stations also have a chance to ensure the balance between solar energy and wind energy on the other hand?
innovation, climate change, renewable energy if you read the europe 2020 strategy, you might really think that the eu is serious about environmental and energy policy. however, if we look behind the facade of environmental protection, we quickly see another energy strategy: nuclear power as a so-called clean energy. commissioner oettinger made a clear statement when i asked him to tell me that nuclear energy was making an important contribution to low-carbon electricity generation in the eu and would continue to do so in the near future. the european commission is not planning a directive on the maximum lifetime of nuclear power stations. and that's 25 years after chernobyl! april 26th is a sad anniversary. now, mr president barroso, my question is: do you also think that nuclear power can actually and sincerely be sold to our european citizens as clean and climate-friendly energy?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that the role of politics is to help to ensure and improve the quality of life. this is not an easy task in the healthcare field at the moment. it is primarily the responsibility of the national states to guarantee this health care, access to the best medicine, regardless of the income of the patients and regardless of the region in which they live. however, despite the best national health systems, there will be cases where patients need or want to seek help, support and medical services abroad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to benefit from the services of the european union. i really see this directive as a success after the long negotiations, even if its implementation will now entail great achievements on the part of the individual health care states and also the insurance companies. i very much hope that you will continue to press for this, because the best directive is only useful to us if it is implemented and enforced. i also ask you to remain steadfast in your efforts to develop prevention and health care. because i believe we want europeans to live in good health for as long as possible, with the best possible access to high-quality medicine at the lowest possible cost.
10 million people in europe suffer from dementia, half of them alzheimer's patients. as life expectancy increases, these numbers continue to rise. the own-initiative report is moving in the right direction in calling for a more effective approach to the treatment of dementia and alzheimer's in particular. particular attention should be paid to prevention. early diagnosis, free testing for those at risk and, in particular, better information for the general public are key to this, as alzheimer's is often detected too late in the eu. the further spread of dementia requires a european strategy that offers as comprehensive a structure as possible, giving patients equal access to information and treatment options. support for family members and carers must also be taken into account. broad epidemiological and clinical studies and improved dementia and alzheimer's research are also important factors in the fight against dementia.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank you in particular for the information, because it is the basis for a sensible discussion and also a clear commitment to our small and mediumsized enterprises, because after all, two thirds of europe's employment is in them and 80% of the taxes are paid. so my question is: do you think that in the future we can strengthen the research framework and the research infrastructure in the area of these programmes a little more?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. after the fairy tale lesson of our italian colleague from the epp, i would like us to return to earth. it is a fact that italy has been accused, and rightly so. italy has been condemned, and rightly so. italy has not respected the deadline. apparently, the plan was delivered by the government, but then not forwarded in time. so the situation is always the same. it is impossible to avoid the impression that the authorities are continually pushing things on until an emergency situation arises, when they can govern and decide with the emergency laws in italy, thus overriding all other norms. if there is a lot of rubbish on the road, whether it is mixed with industrial waste from the north or the south, then it can be quickly dumped somewhere unsecured in a landfill without taking or being able to take enough precautions. this is not an italian debate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen from italy! this is a debate where european law has not been respected and implemented. if this approach, as is being followed here, spreads to other countries, it will have consequences for the whole of europe. it's not a sunday stroll down there. it is outrageous. it is not a question of denying access to 536 new sites and then using police force to dissuade citizens from protesting because they do not want household waste mixed with toxic industrial waste to be dumped on their doorstep. it can't be! there must be consequences, and tangible consequences. it is good that the funds can no longer be used to the extent that they used to be. there's enough leakage already. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the waste crisis in the greater naples area has been going on for 14 years now. the existing dumps are overcrowded, and the construction of new facilities is blocked by the affected municipalities. the citizens' distrust of any waste project can also be explained by the fact that at the political level during this period much was promised, but almost nothing was fulfilled. the previous approach to this problem has been, in practice, short-term interim solutions. special commissioners were set up, but they were not even obliged to inform local authorities and residents. on the other hand, disposable goods are part of everyday life in italy. this means that the daily production of waste is well above the european average, while at the same time there is little emphasis on waste separation and recycling. the sad result of this lack of environmental awareness on both sides is that campania is now a heavily polluted region, and the rate of cancer among the inhabitants and respiratory diseases among children in the greater naples area are far above the average in italy. it is therefore urgent that solutions be found and implemented!
author. − madam president, my colleague mrs in 't veld has already explained what the resolution is about and referred to it and i strongly agree with the question she put to you, commissioner: what about a road map for lgbt rights in this common european union? but i would like to take a different angle to hopefully convince those who in this parliament have not yet decided on voting in favour of this resolution. you know what? last summer, four members of the european parliament, mrs in 't veld, myself, mr cashman and mr fjellner, representing four groups, the majority of this parliament, were in vilnius, in lithuania, together with the first baltic pride to be held in vilnius, empowering and supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in this city and we were there under the european flag telling everybody, ‘this flag protects us, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and that is true also for lithuania.’ now, what would happen to us and to lithuanians who next year might go marching in favour of our equal rights in vilnius if this law is adopted in the seimas? each one of us could be fined up to eur 2 900 for publicly promoting sexual orientation – meaning homosexuality in this case, because i guess for heterosexuality that does not apply. is that really what this parliament would want? is that what the parliament of lithuania would want, the parliament of a country which 20 years ago struggled for its own freedom, with lesbians and gays among the people struggling for that freedom? so i am very happy that the president of lithuania, mrs grybauskaitė, former commissioner, and the government of lithuania have already said that this proposed law contravenes lithuania’s obligations under its own constitution. i hope it will be clear that different forms of sexuality, of sexual orientation, of forms of living, have been part of all cultures and of all societies and are so in lithuania, as well, and that hiding facts like that from the public, from young people, is simply a basis for inciting hatred, hate speech and hate crimes. that is something that i think nobody in this parliament or in the lithuanian parliament would want. therefore i hope that we will have the support of this parliament and of the commissioner for the resolution. we do not need your support, but i hope we have it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we had a brief exchange of views yesterday. i have two questions for you: it is not surprising that you support the presidency from the far right, but whether mr orbán is right is another question. but have you noticed that the hungarian revolution was carried by many, many people and not just by right-wing conservatives, as mr schulz said? and have you noticed, madam president, that the criticism of the media law in hungary is not only being voiced by social democrats, but by many citizens, whether it be mr györgy konrád or many others who have nothing to do with social democracy. did you notice that?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in europe, the press is not obliged to be balanced. in europe, there is freedom of the press. and if a body emerges in europe that wants to establish the so-called balance by means of unreasonable penalties, by ending the protection of sources, by fear, then i expect the guardian of european law - the commission - to react. but not hesitantly, not halfheartedly, not defensively, but quickly, decisively and effectively. and that hasn't happened yet. mr orbán, i am not convinced by the aggressive and insensitive defence of your friends. mr orbán, you were considered a liberal. i can imagine that it doesn't always feel good, either. but i want to ask you: how does it feel now to be considered as someone who is leading a country away from democracy and towards totalitarianism? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) and how does it feel to be someone who has to be defended by those up there, mr. orbán? that's what i'd like to ask you.
the commission has already done so. yes, your country has suffered a great deal and your country, you personally and your party have contributed much to peace and to a united europe. as a good neighbour, as an austrian, i can respectfully note that at this historic hour. creating jobs, promoting growth, ensuring security - these are the priorities of your presidency, and we are happy to support them. strengthening the internal market, advancing energy policy, the danube strategy and also concluding the talks with croatia. that is something we want to support and will continue to support. i want to thank you in particular for your advocacy of religious freedom. yes, christianity is a pillar of european action and european thought and we have great respect for the fact that you have reformed the communist media law in hungary in 1986. it is important and right, and we also say that we do not think that some of the voices we have heard in this context - including in this house - are correct. some of these sounds remind me of the sanctions that were unjustly imposed on the austrian government back in 2000. i'm telling you, it was just as unfair to you as it was to me back then. i would like to thank you for doing this and wish the new hungarian presidency every success. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister! i agree with you on three points. firstly, on the croatian question, we are on the same track and we hope to find a solution together with your foreign minister. secondly, the importance of roma integration and thirdly, the european significance of the hungarian revolution. i am from austria, born near the hungarian border, but i have seen it from the better side. i had two classmates, whom i then taught in german. i know what it means. but this was a revolution against the claim to power, against the monopoly claim to power. this was a revolution for freedom, including freedom of the press! mr president, i would ask you to reconsider whether this law is really in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the hungarian revolution. when you compare that with these goals, you'll come up with a better law. and so i ask you once again to think for yourselves how you can write a better media law that corresponds to the hungarian revolution and the spirit of that revolution. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. strengthening europe means strengthening the commission, means extending the protection shield, both financially and in terms of content. it is called strengthening democracy in europe, that is, the community europe. strengthening europe starts at home. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the national governments. if we want to strengthen europe, mr president-in-office, we must strengthen the common features and reduce the weaknesses. our strengths are the same rights, the same values, the same freedoms, the community method, the internal market with its four freedoms and the common currency. parties are only instruments of democracy, not the other way around. our weaknesses are nationalism, selfishness, polarization and protectionism. let us make europe stronger this semester and thus make europe a community.
in writing. hungary takes over the belgian presidency of the council of the eu. two member states as different as they could be: one, the traditional epitome of a european state, the other, a country still searching for its way to europe. i expect the hungarian presidency to continue the path taken by belgium, focusing on the european interest as a whole. the priorities presented are wide-ranging. as a sub-theme of the 'citizen-friendly eu', hungary has set itself the objective of implementing the charter of fundamental rights, which should prove 'interesting' given that hungary is currently in the crossfire of international criticism over its new media law, which is in clear contradiction to article 11 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. as a full member of the committee on budgets, he will be responsible for monitoring further developments in the field of strengthened financial supervision and the permanent crisis mechanism. as belgium has done with a good example, it is to be hoped that hungary will also make social agendas a priority.
madam president, i would like to table an oral amendment to this amendment no 4 by ms brantner and me, deleting the latter part. it should read: ‘calls on serbia to enter into dialogue with kosovo without any longer referring to new negotiations on its status’. i hope i have your support for that.
i have to say, madam president, i think it is important that we do not use national tax systems against the single market. this is particularly important for crossborder services. we are talking about equal treatment. we now have a negative example in hungary, where retroactive price limits have been introduced for crisis taxation. this is not acceptable. the financial, insurance and commercial sectors, as well as the energy sector, are particularly affected. i hope that in the future this will not be used in the health services. i would ask president orbán to review these regulations because they are in themselves totally contrary to the concept of the internal market.
in writing. - if the surgical dates are overrun in one's own country, the assurance that the health insurance institution will cover the costs of the surgery abroad is a tremendous relief. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the disabled person a residence permit for a period of three years. however, this regulation is only useful if it is ensured that it does not create medical tourism and that it does not place a heavy burden on the already heavily strained coffers. in addition to the risk that certain areas of medicine may be rapidly overrun in some countries with high medical standards, there is a risk that a wave of costs will be felt in poorer eu countries that have so far invested less in public health. it should not be overlooked that, up to now, the counter-balancing of social security systems in the eu countries has not worked and the funds have owed millions to each other for many years. while member states can theoretically exclude treatment if they fear that the influx of foreign patients will jeopardise their own healthcare, in practice this will not be so easy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i voted against it to avoid an explosion of costs in the social sector.
in writing. - partnership agreements for the sustainable use of forest resources worldwide cannot be expected to produce miracles. the only way to combat illegal logging effectively is to reduce the vulnerability of local systems to corruption, to close the loopholes that circumvent existing regulations and, finally, to ensure that there are effective penalties and sanctions for non-compliance. the environmental damage caused by forestry activities should not be overlooked. the agreement is not a miracle, but it is a step in the right direction and that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − the partnership agreement with cameroon in the forestry sector is commendable and is also likely to be appropriate for image reasons in the eu's international year of forests 2011. but it is doubtful whether the agreement is worth the paper on which it is signed. after all, corruption is the order of the day in cameroon. in the 2010 transparency international world rankings, it was ranked 146th. environmental groups accuse the state of being aware of environmental crimes committed by the forest industry, but corruption prevents control and prosecution. after all, foreign companies are said to control more than 60 percent of the timber extraction and processing and three quarters of the timber exports. the agreement is not a miracle, but it is a step in the right direction and that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - 40% of cameroon is still covered by forest. because cameroon is the largest exporter of tropical timber in africa, and no other country is deforesting so heavily. experts estimate that in 10 to 15 years, the most ecologically valuable tree species in the congo basin will be gone if deforestation continues as it has been aimed at maximum yield. this ultimately threatens africa's green lungs, which are critical to global climate, and endangers cameroon's unique flora and fauna. the following are essential to protect cameroon's tropical forests: fighting corruption and bribery (both at the civil service level and among community owners of state forests), effective law enforcement, sustainable forestry, where only as much is cut as is grown, and better training of woodworkers to avoid damage to the forest floor during logging. european companies in particular are to be blamed, since some 80 per cent of the proceeds are shipped to europe. the eu must take the lead here and intervene directly! i therefore voted in favour of the present report because it is moving in the right direction.
in writing. − only if it is ensured that foreign firms no longer pimp out domestic firms that lack forestry and environmental know-how and if the congo gets its corruption under control does such an agreement make sense. the aim must be responsible and intergenerational forestry. until this awareness is ingrained in the minds of the local population, the practice of eye-wiping will continue. and as long as there are no significant penalties and sanctions for non-compliance with deforestation regulations, the eu agreement remains a paper tiger. even if only 'selective' deforestation is carried out, it should not be overlooked that many trees have to be removed during transportation itself, for example for the construction of transport roads. the agreement is not a miracle, but it is a step in the right direction and that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − the european parliament's approval of the voluntary partnership agreements between the eu and the republic of cameroon and the republic of congo is an important step towards combating illegal logging and trafficking. a certification system that ensures clear traceability benefits not only the european economy and in particular the european timber industry but also those in cameroon and the congo. i am in favour of both agreements.
in writing. − i have agreed to the signing of a voluntary partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cameroon and between the eu and the republic of congo. the year 2011 is the international year of forests. healthy forests are vital to the maintenance of local biodiversity and make a major contribution to our climate goals as natural carbon sinks. natural vegetation is in serious decline worldwide, including in central africa. satellite images show that some 25,000 square kilometres of africa's flora have been lost in the last 30 years. these new partnership agreements also promote responsible forest management in these two countries, for which the eu indirectly, through its timber imports, bears and now also assumes co-responsibility. the introduction of a system of provenance and proof of legality for wood products also brings the desired transparency.
in writing. − the interim partnership agreement between the european union and two acp countries, papua new guinea and fiji, should be seen as a step towards a comprehensive agreement. the interim partnership agreement covers all the important areas of a trade agreement for goods, but could also extend to intellectual property rights and developments in public procurement. i am in favour of the agreement, but at the same time i am aware of the possible impact on the european fisheries sector and i expect the commission to provide information as requested in paragraph 15 of the resolution adopted by parliament.
in writing. - children are the weakest link in our society. the protection and subsequent monitoring of their rights must be a high priority for the eu as a whole. within the union, children are still victims of trafficking and exploitation, often through uncontrolled adoptions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are protected, and that the rights of children are protected. i shall abstain because the resolution does not sufficiently set out measures which could actually guarantee the protection of children from exploitation through adoption.
in writing. - i have agreed that the european union should sign a stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of serbia. serbia is important for the stability of the entire balkan region, and therefore a continuous and institutionalised dialogue with it is important. serbia has made great strides towards europe in recent years. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union's common foreign and security policy. the european union should also support serbia in its efforts to cooperate with the international criminal court in every possible way.
in writing. − alzheimer's is a devious disease for which, despite all the research, there is no cure. so alzheimer's, with its progressive memory loss and loss of other higher brain functions, to the complete loss of autonomy, will remain incurable for a long time. this makes it all the more important to start treatment quickly. the information of the population on prevention options, as well as the early detection and delay of the disease, is therefore important. it is counterproductive, it seems, for many general practitioners and specialists to switch to anti-dementiva treatment too late to avoid overspending. because proper drug treatment can delay an expensive stay at home for up to a year, according to doctors. not to be overlooked is the heavy physical and emotional strain on caregivers, which in about one third of cases leads to depression, burnout and similar disorders. at eu level, efforts are being made to alleviate the suffering of those suffering from alzheimer's disease. i therefore voted in favour of the matias report.
in writing. − the rapid increase in the number of people with alzheimer's and other dementias means that the eu sees a need for rapid action, with a strong emphasis on early diagnosis and prevention: this means that people at risk should be tested early and that targeted education campaigns should help family members to distinguish between normal ageing and dementia. member states should promote a good exchange of experience between themselves, involving both academics and nurses. the alarming number of people affected and the resulting costs to individual economies are pushing for prevention, in the form of encouraging healthy eating and delaying the further progression of the disease. the physical and psychological care of the family is also to be noted. it has been shown that a patient in home care requires the use of three people, who usually have to give up their occupation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. this can be done by means of education, which is already being used in schools.
in writing. - council directive 93/42/eec on medical devices sets out precisely the requirements that a device must meet in order to be authorised and to remain in circulation. the ce marking is used to indicate that the product meets these requirements. member states are responsible for carrying out checks to detect any unauthorised use of the ce marking and for recalling products from the market where appropriate. the competent authority shall inform the commission immediately of the measures taken. i shall abstain, since i do not think that the commission needs to act in this case.
in writing. - one year after the devastating earthquake in haiti, the situation in the country has not improved in any way. the cholera outbreak has worsened the situation dramatically, despite all the humanitarian and economic aid. the capital, port-au-prince, is still buried under tons of rubble, and the only means available to the population to remove it is shovels and wheelbarrows. while tens of thousands of people remain homeless and the trafficking of children is booming, political chaos continues in the dictatorial-ruled country after the elections. i voted for the resolution because the people of haiti are finally being helped and the western world must take its responsibility.
in writing. − the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) ensures, among other things, that people with different sexual orientations may not be discriminated against. the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat fraud. the european parliament considers that the adoption by the lithuanian parliament of the law on the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information constitutes a clear breach of the treaty. it also called on the lithuanian government to reject further legislative amendments on this subject and to include sexual orientation in the list of protected interests. i abstain because it is not clear to me to what extent the eu is interfering in national affairs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, and madam vice-president! thank you for your clear statement. in fact, the increasing attacks on christians and religious intolerance in general are very worrying. this must be deeply despised by us, because we are for religious tolerance and freedom and diversity. i would like to express once again our deep sympathy and regret at the attacks on the coptic christians in egypt. this was a serious blow, not only to the coptic christians, but also to the tolerance that still prevails in egypt in many cases. i say 'yet' because she is already in danger. i also deeply regret, on behalf of my group, all that is happening to christians in iraq, because the overthrow of saddam hussein was not intended to see us now witnessing this intolerance against christians on the other side. however, there is also intolerance among muslims. it is therefore particularly important for our group to take a firm stand against intolerance towards other religious beliefs in general - and, of course, against religious minorities in particular. i almost never make written statements, but at the invitation of mr maurer i was happy to participate because it is such an important issue that we are fighting this growing intolerance, that we are fighting it together. i am glad that we have found a common resolution and thus a common basis. but just as i, on behalf of my group, very clearly and unequivocally reject all attacks against christians - not only these bloody attacks, of course, but also other forms of discrimination against christians - i would also like to make it clear that i very much regret that there is a growing islamophobia in certain circles in europe, which is just one more argument - a false one, an invalid one, but one more argument - that certain radical forces among muslims see in it a cause, a justification, a justification for discriminating against christians or even for using violence against them. we must all, regardless of our views on individual religions, recognize that all people have the right to practice their religion in peace and quiet. the minority of aggressive, violent people - whether muslims, christians, jews or people of other religions - can never justify acting against other religions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to thank you very much for your explanation. it is right, it is timely, and it is also encouraging in terms of the basic attitude of your authority and yourself to the overall problem, to cooperation with other countries and to the necessary measures. this debate is also necessary in this house, not only because of the current situation, but because freedom of religion is part of our fundamental values and of our european identity. this debate is important because we are witnessing discrimination, persecution and violence in many countries around the world, and it is particularly worrying that a very high proportion of all victims of religiously motivated violence worldwide are christians. in this context, our condolences go out to all those who have been killed, injured or tortured on such occasions. our condolences go out to the friends and relatives of the deceased. it's about working to make it less and go away. unfortunately, we also know of discrimination against christians by governmental authorities, and we want to fight and end this too. that's why we need our commitment to upholding religious freedom. this must be at the heart of our bilateral relations. we need effective instruments which should be created to protect christians and to protect religious freedom. it is therefore welcome that the promotion of the human right to religious freedom should be on the agenda of any bilateral contact. in this context, provisions to guarantee freedom of religion should be included in our agreements with third countries, and i very much welcome your intention to dedicate a separate chapter to the situation of religious freedom in the european union's annual human rights report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. coptic bishop damian recently called for a christian alliance specifically for christians in egypt as a result of the incitement campaigns in mosques and also as a result of the terrible massacre at christmas mass. the charity open doors, in its world persecution index, lists at least 50 countries where christians are severely persecuted. if we're showing concern today, i don't understand. because we can 't wonder: the fish starts to stink from the head. because if we in the eu and the commission, as a model of self-denial, distribute a calendar - after all, in 21 000 european schools for three million pupils - in which all christian holidays are not listed, but instead the holidays of the muslim population, the sikhs, hindus and chinese, etc., then it is already self-hatred and not just self-denial. we need courage, lady ashton, we need sustenance and not tolerance where there is intolerance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the media has repeatedly said that the reintroduction of sanctions against belarusian president lukashenko, which were only eased two years ago, would be an admission that years of efforts to bring the two countries closer have failed. i believe that these efforts have failed before, at the latest in the presidential elections or the closure of the osce office in minsk. the actions of the last dictator in europe show once again that the eu also has a problem in the area of human rights violations. the scandal surrounding the cia's overflights and the inconsistent attitude towards the issue of territorial integrity and the right of peoples to self-determination, for example in the balkans, have tarnished the eu's image as a champion of human rights. the credibility of the union is also damaged by the fact that accession negotiations are being conducted with turkey, a country which has a great need to catch up with regard to human rights, in defiance of the lofty principles of copenhagen. the situation in belarus is very good, and mr lukashenko has certainly made sure of that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the coup in tunisia has also shaken neighbouring countries in the maghreb - including libya - which are largely dictatorships. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the riots will undoubtedly have an impact on the flow of refugees. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: but gaddafi's demand that the european union should provide africa with five billion euros a year to combat illegal immigration is certainly going in the wrong direction. the european union countries are already paying billions in development aid and i believe that this development aid needs to be urgently reviewed so that it no longer benefits dictatorships and corruption but really reaches the people. the european union's external relations should also give greater weight to the plight of christians in islamic countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is to harmonise asylum law by 2012. it is not clear, however, whether, for example, fast dispatches in transit zones, which have proved to be quite successful in germany, will still be possible. the commission denied the intention to suspend this airport scheme, cryptically stating that it should continue to be possible to turn away asylum seekers at the border if an applicant comes from a safe country. well, we know the debate, especially on the notion of what is a safe country of origin and there are very different views in europe. the right of residence for siblings - previously restricted to parents and married couples - and the extension of access to medical care are also provided for. i do not want to start with plans to make asylum seekers fit into the social system. i therefore strongly doubt that these proposals will reduce the cost of the procedure. i doubt there's any hope of cutting red tape. i believe that there is a greater burden and a relaxation of the right of asylum, and this will ultimately lead to an increased rush. and that, god forbid, is not good for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr lamberts, you spoke of special aid to banks which they received from the central bank. could you elaborate a little bit more on what that means, how that worked? you also talked about shutting it down. what would be your suggestions on how we could actually get this handled so that the wrong people aren't making the profits?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to you for allowing such dialogues. it is a small misfortune that the earl of dartmouth has now failed to understand that you would have granted him this time as well. i think that is very positive and it is also good that someone comes forward with such concrete proposals as mr lamberts, but that this leads to a contradiction and that we are going in exactly the direction that we would like to have in this house, a more direct dialogue. perhaps you could give him a brief opportunity to respond to that later. i would like to continue where mr lamberts left off. yes, we need transparency in the banks. the public is not yet aware that we have done something unimaginable by eu standards with these subsidies in the wake of this financial crisis. it is clear that competition per se cannot always do without subsidies when it comes to larger objectives. the great bitterness of the whole affair is that the very banks which have been helped are now making new profits and are in some cases again violating common european interests. the financial market. the second point i would like to raise is the question of medicines - my old subject. it is very regrettable that we still do not have the progress that would have been possible and necessary for decades. it would indeed be a great european added value if citizens in my home country, austria, germany and other countries had to pay as much for medicines as in other eu countries. there are cartels at work, there are big corporations at work. i think the commission has the opportunity and also the obligation to finally take action. the second aspect is that of the authorization of medicinal products. there are still unnecessary experiments being done, both in animals and in humans. there's a lot of ambiguity there. in a european single market, this is actually a matter of the last century. i would ask you again to take a very active part in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the unpredictable amount of natural resources in the arctic is known to be a hotly contested area. ninety billion barrels of oil alone are expected to be stored under the ice sheet. the fact that british petroleum, which caused the oil disaster in the gulf of mexico last year, is now able to access the arctic resources in this sensitive area - where conditions are much more extreme than in the gulf - is a matter of some discomfort. after all, the arctic is already the global end-resort for mercury emissions. yet, given the world's energy hunger, the very idea of renouncing arctic oil reserves is highly unrealistic. it is to be hoped that the european union will take better security measures within the framework of the arctic council so that the arctic wildlife does not face a similarly terrible fate as that of the gulf of mexico during the recent oil disaster. the arctic is also of vital importance to the eu, especially for the development of new global trade routes. if a new sea route could be opened between europe, asia and north america, it would eliminate piracy in somalia, for example, in one fell swoop, and the eu would save a lot of money by abandoning its atalanta mission, at least as long as the inuit indigenous population is not driven into desperate acts or activities similar to piracy, perhaps because of the deprivation of their natural livelihoods. this is important for both route planning and oil production.
i have to say, madam president, the exploitation of natural resources, strategic interests, climate change and, not least, the growth of tourism are all bringing this fragile ecosystem to the brink of extinction. however, the ecosystem in the far north is relatively self-sustaining and therefore extremely sensitive. it is therefore important to strike a balance between exploiting the system and at the same time maximising the protection of this sensitive system. but this will not be possible without restrictions on the extraction of raw materials, restrictions on the methods of extraction and stricter rules for tourism and freight shipping. the fact that the oil company bp and the russian state company rosneft have joint plans for oil and gas production does not exactly point in the direction of a conservative extraction of raw materials - quite the contrary! it is therefore clear that the protection of the arctic must be above national strategic and economic interests and a key concern for the eu.
in writing. the european union's relations with libya must be viewed objectively, given their complexity and importance for europe. of course, respect for human rights is of great importance and it is therefore also sensible for brussels to demand that libya ratify the 1951 geneva convention on refugees or to propose a moratorium on the death penalty. however, it must also be taken into account that libya is an important transit country for illegal mass migration from africa to europe. it is therefore not appropriate to oppose a readmission agreement with tripoli in general terms, as was done in the report of the foreign affairs committee. without a readmission agreement with libya, the pressure on europe to accept migrants will increase even more. and because illegal mass migration is a matter of survival for europe's historical growth, the eu is well advised to differentiate its relations with tripoli and involve libya in managing migration flows.
in writing. - 75% of religious terror attacks in recent years have been against christians. in recent months, there has been an increase in attacks, including direct attacks on churches where mass is being celebrated. it cannot be that in the 21st century, faith communities should fear the freedom to practice their faith. the principle of freedom of religion must apply to everyone, and globally. i therefore support the idea of developing a strategy to enforce the right to freedom of religious practice!
in writing. − the european union's mere declarations on religious freedom are not enough. in particular, in islamic countries, christians are considered to be free-wild animals, are oppressed and often murdered. and despite these appalling circumstances, the eu's high-level community of values has so far largely remained silent. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. instead of calling for an end to the persecution of christians, the welfare of muslims living in the eu is being looked after in a politically correct way, and they enjoy a degree of religious freedom that most christians in the islamic world can only dream of. the situation of christians must play a special role in shaping the eu's external relations with islamic countries. the eu has plenty of ways and means of doing something to improve the situation of christians. for example, development aid and other financial aid should be made conditional on the granting of religious freedom to christians. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − this joint resolution was welcomed because the number of attacks on christian communities has increased worldwide in 2010. in the european union, freedom of religion, belief and expression are signs of european identity. at the same time, christianity is of the greatest importance to these very countries and is an important part of european culture. in the eu, freedom of religion is governed by article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights and article 9 of the european convention on human rights.
in writing. − the media is saying that re-imposing sanctions against president lukashenko of belarus, which were eased two years ago, would be tantamount to admitting that years of efforts to bring belarus closer have failed. in fact, the efforts have failed before, for example in the presidential elections, but at the latest with the closure of the osce offices in minsk and the accusations of subversion against germany and poland. nevertheless, in many cases the resolution is exaggerated, making the text, which is good in itself, vulnerable to criticism. for example, if we demand that all officials and the entire judicial system be banned from entering the eu in the future, we are going too far. the exaggeration becomes striking when one calls for the cancellation of the 2014 ice hockey world cup. i therefore abstained.
in writing. the resolution contains some very exaggerated demands, such as the visa restrictions for civil servants and the judiciary. in addition, the 2014 ice hockey world championship is to be boycotted. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis that has shaken the financial markets has naturally also affected competition policy. on the one hand, growing budget deficits and public debt in many member states, which have slowed down the economic recovery, and on the other, the state aid granted in response to the financial crisis. the government guarantees have had numerous effects and distortions such as reduced private bond spreads, but also impacts on the strategy of pension funds. the european competition policy is designed to make the internal market globally competitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. the high north is rich in resources, energy and opens up new sea routes which could be used by the european union. the resources in these areas are valuable and must be treated accordingly. when mining for raw materials, it is important that the ecological system not suffer too much. the people, the indigenous peoples, also need special protection and attention. the arctic is a world heritage and must be treated as such. the priority must therefore be to preserve this heritage, not to exploit it. i support the report by my colleague, mr gahler, on the sustainable policy of the eu for the far north.
in writing. - the unpredictable abundance of natural resources makes the arctic a hotly contested area. ninety billion barrels of oil alone are expected to be stored under the ice sheet. it is a matter of concern that bp, which caused the oil disaster in the gulf of mexico last year, should now have access to arctic resources in this sensitive natural area, where conditions are much more extreme than in the gulf. after all, the arctic is already the global end-resort for mercury emissions. in view of the warming of the climate and the consequences that are expected from it, this problem cannot be overestimated. the report makes a good deal of reference to the many aspects, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the report on the black sea strategy is important and therefore very comprehensive. the further development of the black sea synergy is not only important for energy strategic reasons. we need new impetus for the modernisation of the economic area and new business initiatives in the black sea region. the security of natural gas supply to europe is of particular importance. the eu's efforts must not, however, ignore russian interests. only with russia as a strategic partner can a peaceful and prosperous development of the black sea region be ensured. criticism of the extension of the russian black sea fleet's presence in the black sea is an unnecessary provocation. i voted for the report.
in writing. − in 2007, the strategic importance of the black sea region for the eu was recognised. after the accession of romania and bulgaria, the black sea became partly an inland sea of the eu. as developments in this region, geopolitically situated between europe, the middle east and central asia, also have an impact on the eu's internal affairs, there is a need for greater engagement in the region. the aim is to develop regional cooperation between the eu and the region and within the region. the black sea region should develop into an area of stability, security, democracy and prosperity. in addition, joint projects are being developed, such as the creation of a forum for civil society in the black sea region, the strengthening of academic and student networks and the creation of an institute for european studies in the black sea region. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i supported the report on an eu strategy for the black sea region. the actions undertaken so far in the eastern european mediterranean region have not been coordinated and the results are marginal. the black sea region is dominated by long-running bilateral conflicts. the european union needs to be more involved in regional dialogue in order to promote political stability in the region, given that two eu member states are coastal states and the black sea region has become the union's immediate neighbour. cooperation in the development of regional structures will also benefit the environment, which is currently a cause for concern. the eu should act as a supporter to help achieve the balance between economic development and environmental protection. the european union has also interests in the black sea region. the area is an integral part of the eu energy strategy, so this new strategy is an implementation of the overall energy strategy and brings synergies and continuity to the work at the european level.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i thank you for your comments and i thank the president of the council and the vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank all those who have inspired this hour - my group, in particular kinga göncz. as you said today, mr president, the extermination of the roma has often been pushed into the background when we talk about the extermination of the jews. but others have also fallen victim to the atrocities of national socialism. i am also mentioning homosexuals, as you have done, mr president, in another context today. i agree with the president-in-office of the council and with my predecessor that the best way to commemorate is to think about the future at the same time. we cannot be satisfied with the situation of the roma on our continent today. they are still discriminated against, they are still prejudiced. if a country is now thinking of returning to the name "gypsy" instead of "roma" to avoid confusion, i do not want to criticize it, but only to note that the fight against prejudice, the fight against discrimination, is important, not adapting to discrimination by changing a name. we have been dealing with the roma issue for years in this parliament and we still have to say - also when we visit the different countries - that there are still very big problems, that the cycle of discrimination and disadvantage has not been broken and that many children are still being educated in separate schools today. i am therefore very grateful that the hungarian presidency has taken up this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our group has been in contact for some time, through the mediation of martin schulz, with günter grass, the german writer who also founded a roma foundation. günter grass once said: "the roma, in their permanent state of dispersion, are, strictly speaking, europeans in the sense in which we, trapped in national narrowness, should think of them if we do not want a united europe to become a bureaucratic administrative and economic colossus with overwhelming power. at least this one, their cross-border mobility, is ahead of us, the so-called gypsies. first of all, they should be able to identify themselves with a european passport, which guarantees them the right to stay from romania to portugal. (quoting from the minutes) we should create the conditions for all roma to feel at home where they are at home. we should also create the conditions for them to be able to travel freely throughout europe without being deported again. if we can do that, then we have done a great deal for the roma and we have overcome the terrible things that the nazis did to the roma in the holocaust during the second world war. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am not going to be too blunt, but i am not as determined, serious or dynamic as i should like to be. we're running out of time! and sometimes i feel like we're still trying to make wishes to the heads of state and government instead of making nails with heads. the time is ripe for more courage for more europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the events call for new acts of solidarity. they're asking for the next step in integration. they are calling for the rapid correction of the design error of monetary union, namely economic and social union. i say yes to the competitiveness pact, yes to the internal energy market, because it can also help to bring down prices, increase independence and create growth and jobs. but we must also say yes to the research, education and innovation area, that is to say to a greater europeanisation of education and research policy. i am talking about an economic government, if it is the commission, but not about a new intergovernmentalism which undermines the treaty of lisbon.
it's a good one. i have two points of view: the current energy policy path is moving too slowly towards the goal. the eu can make important progress by simplifying and speeding up procedures for developing energy infrastructure, but not at the expense of citizens, and the aarhus convention must not be undermined. the transparency and comprehensibility of the work are a necessary prerequisite. of course, smes must be involved as equal partners with their innovative strength. the world of financial markets is moving much faster than the council has been able to react to it. the resulting general uncertainty among citizens and in the financial world requires swift and decisive action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am not in favour of this. some people say you can't learn from history, but we should still try. i would like to point out once again how things went in iran at the time. we supported a dirty regime. we have more or less tolerated the sawak police who have been attacking people and torturing people. and america and britain also overthrew mossadek, who wanted a peaceful revolution. we've made some progress today, but we're not quite there yet. i think we have to be very clear - and i can join my colleagues who have already said this - that we have to stand with the people who started this revolution and who have driven it forward. and it wasn't the islamists! let us rejoice in this great opportunity that the revolution did not start from the islamists, but from the people on the streets, from the ordinary citizens who were dissatisfied with the social injustice, with the economic situation and with the lack of democracy. that's what was there. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be self-critical, but part of our neighbourhood strategy has collapsed. and part of our neighborhood strategy has been based on having stability. we need peace in the middle east. we have been expecting that peace in the middle east would be on the shoulders of dictatorships and dictators, and that is not possible and that is not acceptable. we must therefore have a clear opinion and speak a clear language. the peace in the middle east will be lasting only if it is based on democracy and not on dictatorships. and that is why, mrs ashton, we must speak our minds. i know you are known for your softness, but i agree with the other members: loud and clear! they have to speak so loudly that we don't hear some of the voices of our secretaries of state, and maybe sometimes so loudly that you don't hear the voice of hillary clinton, but the voice of catherine ashton. that is what this parliament expects. also, take it as a sign of trust that we expect you to speak a clear language.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the debate in this house - you have followed it with interest - has one common denominator above all, and that is the call to you, commissioner: raise your voice! i would like to see the commission and the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. take a stand for those who have stood up for democracy, freedom of expression and the press in a modern civil society! tunisia, egypt and perhaps a few other countries are facing difficult transitions. that is where our support is needed, and that is where it is wrong for your first representative in this country to say that no change in strategy is necessary. on the contrary, we need the mediterranean strategy, perhaps the middle east strategy, perhaps the rethinking of coexistence beyond the mediterranean and, of course, first and foremost, very quickly, the coordination, preparation and support of elections. the first eu representative in the country may not have noticed that in tunisia the transitional government is now pursuing four international agreements to protect human rights, that the release of all political prisoners, the return of opposition figures and the preparation and holding of democratic elections are a given. we must support this process and parliament wants you to speak up.
i have to say, madam president, lady ashton, please! optimists believe that the revolutionary events in tunisia and egypt could be the beginning of something like an arab spring, events like those we saw in eastern europe in 1989. the fact is that we as europeans should always be on the side of freedom and democracy, and we would be glad if that were the case. but we cannot forget that we europeans, the west as a whole, have also made pacts with some of the worst and most brutal dictatorships in the arab world. we should have no illusions. while facebook, the internet and twitter are modern tools to drive a revolution, they do not replace the rule of law and democratic structures that must exist behind the scenes to transform a revolution into a democratic system. what we europeans can and should do is to take a clear stand and help to build such democratic structures so that we can finally establish the rule of law and the free market economy that are necessary for democracy in these areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i took two things from my journey from sudan: first, the belief in the survival capacity of south sudan, and second, that there is no alternative to this belief in the survival capacity. but, like a small child, this young state needs us to accompany it until it becomes independent. the international community is simply called upon to do so. i would like to address two points: first, the debt relief. as an austrian member of parliament, i am particularly concerned about this, since austria is the largest creditor to the paris club. i think that we must set a good example here, and although it is the responsibility of the member states, it is very important that there is very good coordination between the member states under the auspices of the european union. the second point i would like to raise is the impasse we are in: on the one hand the arrest warrant issued by the international criminal court and on the other the will and the need to pay out the funds from the 10th edf. i think that a quick but also a very pragmatic solution is needed here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the recent referendum in south sudan, the people decided that the old arbitrary colonial borders should fall. in july, the 193rd state in the world will be officially established. the fact that 3.8 million voters voted for an independent state and only 45 000 for remain is an overwhelming majority who have exercised their right to self-determination and a cause for great rejoicing. but secession alone will not bring stability to the country. sudan remains a hotbed of crisis, and in the north radical islamism is ubiquitous. it is therefore important, among many other measures, to establish administrative structures, because a new border must be managed and controlled. this requires an effective security policy throughout the region, in somalia, sudan and south sudan. the eu high representative will be called upon to work with the international players to promote security and stability in the region, and in particular to combat radical tendencies and to stand firmly by south sudan.
in writing. the south sudanese will vote for secession in the referendum, which was foreseeable. and it is equally foreseeable that the problems in the region will by no means end there. firstly, the south is still unstable, it must first prove itself as an independent state. and possibly that will be before the target date in july. the loss of 25% of the land and 20% of the population is not as severe as the loss of a substantial part of the oil revenue. the eu must therefore help the new state to assert its independence and preserve its sovereignty. development aid to south sudan can continue to play an important role in europe's oil supply. the eu should therefore follow china's example, especially as beijing is adept at linking development aid with the supply of raw materials. so the chinese model is mutually beneficial. the problem of illegal immigration into europe must not be ignored either. the european union is therefore proposing to conclude agreements with the government of south sudan on the readmission of its own citizens who have illegally entered the european union. and it will be closely watched whether south sudan is also prepared to comply with these agreements.
i have to say, madam president, after years of dispute between the european union on the one hand and the latin american banana producers on the other, an important step has now been taken thanks to the agreement on trade in bananas. i am in favour of this agreement because it also settles the dispute before the world trade organisation. the agreement between the eu and latin american banana producers must not, however, ignore the general situation in the acp states. the eu's assistance to the acp states should be closely monitored and reinforced where necessary. the impact assessment requested by the european parliament is important here, and it should be clearly emphasized. despite all the assistance, which is undoubtedly basic and important, there must be no rearrangement of the eu budget. too often funds allocated to certain areas have been diverted and used for other purposes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must be aware of its responsibility towards the acp states and the outermost regions and act in a sustainable manner. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economies. the world economic forum in davos seems to have made a move. the g20 wants to conclude the wto negotiations before 2012. it remains to be seen whether words will be followed by deeds. but it seems that the banana agreement has contributed a piece to the great doha puzzle.
member of the commission. − in 2008, the tuberculosis vaccine initiative was established as a public/private partnership with support from the health cooperation programme under the 7th framework programme for research to mobilise additional resources for this important area. at present, most of the newly developed candidate vaccines are still in the preclinical development phase or in the early stages of clinical development. a crucial point to emphasise is the fact that we do not have clinical data to support the idea that any of the candidate vaccines currently in development could demonstrate better efficacy than the vaccine that is currently in use, i.e. the bacillus calmette-guérin vaccine. to reach the market, new candidate vaccines must be able to increase efficacy over bacillus calmette-guérin or be able to replace it as a better vaccine. the fact is that we still do not have this important data today. the tbvi initiative should not be considered in isolation from other initiatives to support clinical trials. in order to address bottlenecks in clinical development, the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership, or edctp, was set up as the first article 185 initiative, in which 14 member states, 2 associated states and the commission collectively committed €400 million of which €200 million came from the european union to promote research in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for aids, for example, for malaria, for tuberculosis, in sub-saharan african countries. the programme is expected to complete all ongoing trials, including eight trials of the tb vaccine, by 2015. so there's already this alternative that works. the commission is also following with great interest the so-called business model developed by public/private partnerships, including the one presented by the tbvi initiative. the tbvi initiative has proposed a model which has the potential to become a useful tool in the future. but this requires a thorough analysis of the business plan and a risk analysis. therefore, even if the tbvi initiative is receiving significant financial support, its success is not guaranteed precisely because of the lack of evidence to know whether what is currently being tested can produce results in the future. but the commission will continue these internal discussions and will also analyse the model with financial institutions, thus contributing to the development of a concept so that it becomes part of the practical implementation of eu 2020. in this context, this possibility could therefore be considered.
i have to say, madam president, today, tuberculosis is still very widespread, especially in poorer countries. one third of the world's population is thought to be infected, and 2.5 million die from tb each year. according to who estimates, in the european region alone, there are 49 new cases and seven deaths every hour. in the industrialized countries, tb has experienced a renaissance, particularly as a secondary disease among hiv-infected and aids patients, but also through migration and tourism. prevention, diagnosis, and treatment can actually control the spread of this disease. humans are the only hosts of the tb microbe, and its eradication would be possible. but the growing number of resistant germs is a cause for concern. there are new vaccines, and one study shows that vitamin d shortened the course of tb treatment. how much more is the commission doing in this area?
i have to say, madam president, mr dartmouth, i have noticed that in your speeches you always try to bring the british taxpayer into the picture. i would like to know whether you consider yourself to be representative of a small group in the united kingdom or do you feel that you are representative of the european union?
i have to say, madam president, development aid is always expensive, often ineffective and sometimes even harmful, because the specific problems of a country are often or all too often not addressed. there is a lack of sustainability and coordination of activities. i think it is doubtful whether an eu-wide financial instrument for development and human rights will change that, especially if the voting in the eu is not coherent. so when we give money to small farmers in africa, but at the same time ruin them with subsidized agricultural products, we end up throwing billions out the window. this will change little as long as we continue to support large corporations in the eu and indirectly in developing countries. the chinese development aid, for example, with which beijing is known to secure raw materials and new markets, is in competition with our traditional development cooperation, and we will have to think about this too. it is also important that development funding be made conditional on cooperation on refugee issues, for example through return agreements.
i have to say, madam president, in our immediate neighborhood, the dictators are leaving, and it's a good thing they're leaving. even if our high representatives in the european union are unable or unwilling to support and promote those who are committed to democracy, it is at least good that we - if we do not talk - act and help. but it is very important to link this aid with our values, with the value of democracy, with the values of the rule of law and core labour standards. it is essential that the union help. but then it must not only help, but also convey what really made us strong, namely these values. if that is so, it is also clear to me that this aid must ultimately be controlled and regulated by a democratic parliament. it is not acceptable that the union should in future be controlled by a civil service. no, parliament must be able to do what it has to do as a parliamentary body, namely to take final decisions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking karl-heinz florenz for his very pragmatic approach to the matter and also for his tenacity. i have a question for the commissioner at the outset. commissioner, you say we should treat member states according to their capacity to collect waste. it is true that europe is 'united in diversity', but can it be that one member state collects 16 kg per capita and another 1 kg? is this not a misinterpretation of this diversity? i would ask you to take a more stringent approach to the member states in the field of waste. it is not possible for us to adopt some nice regulations here and for the member states to do whatever they want. i would also remind you of the interview you gave in connection with the waste crisis in naples. italy has been condemned there, and there is still no proper plan on the table. be more strict here! it is the commission's task as guardian of the treaties to remind the member states which fail to comply with their obligations. we have a fast-growing market in this area and the future of europe will depend on how we manage to deal with this waste problem. we also need the member states to do this, and they should implement it properly. if you're too lax in that area, we're not going to get anywhere. i would also have asked you to set realistic targets, particularly for small businesses, and to involve consumers too. everyone has to take their share of the responsibility, that's clear. but it is also necessary to remind those who bear responsibility - and that is the member states - of their responsibility in implementing the directive.
in writing. - tamás deutsch made statements in a radio programme last year, for which he was charged under hungarian law. in fact, he has expressed his opinion on facts which are public knowledge and which have been published in a newspaper. this statement was clearly made in his capacity as an eu member of parliament, for which he has immunity under eu rules. the purpose of immunity is to safeguard the integrity of the european parliament as a democratic legislative assembly and to ensure the independence of its members in the performance of their duties. the attempt to prevent members from expressing their views on matters of legitimate public interest by means of judicial proceedings is incompatible with democracy. freedom of expression must be respected. i fully agree with the report rejecting the request for waiver of the immunity of mr deutsch.
in writing. - as in the other reports on the financial instruments for development cooperation, this one strengthens the rights of the european parliament in relation to the commission's delegated acts, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the report gives the european parliament more powers in the area of delegated powers. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the main purpose of this request is to confer on the commission the power to adopt delegated acts. the amendments proposed by parliament provide for a comprehensive information obligation on the part of the commission vis-à-vis parliament. this, together with the possibility of objecting to delegated acts or of withdrawing them in their entirety, together with the efficiency gains from the proposed measures, led me to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - this report gives the european parliament more powers, within the limits of the powers conferred on it. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. - as in the gál/lochbihler report, the proposed amendment to the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation is aimed at increasing efficiency through delegated acts from the commission. i voted in favour of this report because the amendments strengthen the european parliament's powers of control.
in writing. - the commitment to date has brought little improvement. on the contrary, it has cemented dependence on governments, and, what is worse, often the development aid millions end up in dark channels or in the bank accounts of third world dictators. the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's external relations, and has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the union. there must be serious doubts whether an eu-wide financial instrument for development and human rights can change anything about these conditions. if we give money to small farmers in africa on the one hand and ruin them with subsidized agricultural products on the other, we are throwing european taxpayers' money out the window. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the council and the commission in the future.
in writing. − to avoid putting latin american supplier countries at a disadvantage to acp countries in importing bananas into the eu, an agreement was agreed. the bananas import rules are now also brought into line with wto rules. the agreement underlines that the eu will gradually reduce its import duties on bananas from latin america from eur 176 per tonne to eur 114 per tonne by 2017. i abstain because a relative deterioration in the competitiveness of some countries cannot be excluded.
in writing. − in december 2009, an agreement finally settled the long-running banana dispute between the eu and the wto. it comprises three main components which should correspond both to the acp states and to the latin american countries supplying bananas. the eu also committed itself to applying strictly regulated customs duties on banana imports. i shall abstain because some points in the report, particularly those relating to customs arrangements, have not been fully clarified.
in writing. the geneva convention is intended to put an end to the so-called 'banana war'. however, further conflicts are to be expected as the latin american countries have demanded a much higher tariff reduction. in addition, some third countries are trying to bring their banana production duty-free into european trade under the guise of 'fair treatment'. this could cause considerable damage. once again, the eu has made unjustified concessions that will ultimately benefit only multinational companies. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - bananas are the fourth most important agricultural product in the world, after rice, wheat and maize. in the eu alone, 5.4 million tonnes of bananas were sold in 2008. however, the eu faces the following problem: five large multinational corporations control 80 percent of the international banana trade. a decades-long dispute between the eu and the wto over the preferential treatment of acp banana imports over latin american bananas was finally settled by agreement in december 2009. i abstain because it is not ensured that all the legitimate interests of the parties involved are taken into account.
in writing. - the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing. the proper disposal of this type of waste is an environmental necessity, as waste electrical and electronic equipment contains significant amounts of pollutants such as the heavy metals mercury, lead, cadmium and cfcs. to make member states, businesses and individual consumers aware of this, the eu has set collection targets which are to be amended in a new directive. i did not vote for the report because i think it interferes too much with the powers of the member states.
in writing. - i share the member states' concerns about this commission proposal. the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are largely ignored. smes would face massive difficulties in implementing these regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in tunisia, as it expresses in a balanced and clear way the european parliament's position on the events in tunisia. it is now urgent that the transitional government organise elections quickly so that the country can move from an authoritarian regime to a stable democracy. the resolution also calls on the high representative to act swiftly and to provide the country with the necessary eu assistance.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the situation in tunisia supports the democratic aspirations of the tunisian people. it also stresses the need to create the necessary conditions for the election of a parliamentary assembly. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. the repression and the disproportionate use of force by the security forces are condemned. for these reasons i support the motion for a resolution on the situation in tunisia.
in writing. − two billion must be spent annually on the treatment of tuberculosis in the european union. tb is considered the most common disease in the world, along with hiv and malaria, and it affects about one third of the world's population. so the white plague is far from defeated. as with all diseases, increasing resistance - from multi- or even ultra-resistant pathogens - and the resulting lack of treatment options is a major challenge for modern medicine. the standard drugs used since the '60s, they don't work on mutant variants. this will replace other drugs that are more expensive and have more severe side effects, which will cost up to 100 times more than the cost of treatment for normal tb. if standard treatment for normal tb is stopped before six months have elapsed, not only will serious side effects occur, but resistance will also develop. the spread of the disease can only be prevented if all contacts are also examined. some countries have not complied with this. as long as these well-known basic rules are not respected, even multi-billion research projects will do little to change the situation and will only create new resistances. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. − the european police college (cepol) was established in 2000 to promote close cooperation between police forces within the union. it is intended to strengthen national authorities in their cooperation in the fight against and prevention of crime. in addition, cepol works closely with services from third countries. i think that cepol is a reasonable institution and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − national interests will be represented in the new central european supervisory institution by the respective financial market supervisory authorities, for example by the fma for austria, as voting members. the national banks also participate in the meetings, although without voting rights. i am against the election of the above-mentioned candidate as president of the european banking authority, and therefore i support the report, because i believe that expensive double structures are being set up, which are manifested, among other things, in the fact that the individual supervisory authorities have their seats in different cities. in addition, financial supervisory agencies can only be part of an overall solution, and sanction mechanisms against eu deficit offenders need to be improved.
in writing. − financial supervisory agencies may be more useful than many other eu institutions, but a single financial supervisory agency would have sufficed, instead of the three that now have three different seats and the associated expensive dual structures. the european level of supervision should include the coordination of national supervision, which will be difficult to achieve in the current structure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
in writing. − the creation of three new eu agencies based in london, paris and frankfurt am main, as well as a separate risk office at the ecb, is likely to create a confusion of competences. the financial supervisory agencies are more useful than many other eu institutions, such as the fundamental rights agency, but a financial supervisory agency could have been used to achieve this. the three new financial supervisory agencies can only be part of an overall solution. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the apparent motto 'you don't hurt me, i don't hurt you' in which member states have spared each other from fines under the deficit procedure has led to disaster. i am convinced that this is the reason why i voted in favour of the report and therefore against the candidate for the post of president of the european insurance supervisory authority.
in writing. - italy has been facing a waste crisis for years, particularly in the province of campania. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life. huge piles of garbage pile up, and illegal dumping, such as into the sea, is making headlines. investigators recently discovered that untreated municipal waste was simply dumped into the mediterranean sea around naples. the resolution did not receive my vote because, in my opinion, it is primarily an anti-government statement and it does not deal with the matter objectively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you see, there are a lot of members who are talking about the 'catch the eye' procedure because it is such an important issue for us. i come from a country, austria, where the services directive has not yet been implemented. the reason is constitutional. the corresponding majorities are needed for a federal constitutional law, and they are not easy to obtain. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mrs evelyne gebhardt, not only for her longstanding commitment to this subject but also for her efforts, together with the shadow rapporteurs, to incorporate the principles and practical aspects of this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social services are not included in the budget. and practical ones, such as the possibility of finding the information you need on the internet. i have spoken mainly because i want to express our disappointment that the implementation of the services directive will not be able to tackle wage and social dumping.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a european patent would probably bring an improvement in some areas of business and science. however, i must say that the hopes that are being placed on this patent are probably a little bit exaggerated. you have to leave the church in the village. i am speaking here primarily against increased cooperation. we have just had the divorce in the enhanced cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we shall be supporting the fact that we shall soon have only increased cooperation, because the path to agreement in the council is too arduous, if we wave this approval through here. we did not envisage this at the convention when we discussed enhanced cooperation. good governance, which we talk about a lot, also means clarity and transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is a great problem for the future if, on a variety of subjects, we have different subgroups of states agreeing on a particular subject. it's nice to say, "yes, the others are invited to come". yes, on what terms? i would have thought that this time - unlike all the years before - there would have been a chance for an agreement if the negotiations had been a little longer. i do not think that the path of closer cooperation on patents is the right one. that is why i shall not be voting for this regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. multilingualism is a reflection of the eu's cultural and linguistic diversity, and this is also very important. the language dispute over the eu patent, however, has now lasted for more than 30 years. this is a period of 30 years in which european firms have had to cope with high translation costs and, in some cases, with competitive disadvantages on the world market. intangible assets such as trademarks and patents are undoubtedly difficult to quantify, but they are used as collateral for loans and, as we know, also in ratings. in this sense, the new patent law, which is being drawn up under the enhanced cooperation procedure and which is at least applicable in parts of the eu, and which only needs to be translated into german, english and french, will certainly be a bureaucratic relief. this is all the more so since english is universally used as a professional language in some fields, such as computer science or medicine. last but not least, the consistent use of the three working languages, german, english and french, makes it possible to reach a large part of the population. the new regulation - and i am personally pleased about this - also strengthens the position of the german language, which is the most widely spoken native language in the eu, according to the 2006 survey.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the chernobyl accident and the subsequent contamination of food by radiation in 1986 have, as is well known, hit the neighbouring countries unprepared. the union has learned from this and has thankfully set limits for the disaster. the radioactive contamination of some foods can be known to be important for many years, but it cannot be seen, tasted or smelled. this is precisely the problem when, in areas contaminated with radioactivity for centuries, contaminated foods such as the fruits of the forest are not only consumed locally but are often sold as safe in uncontaminated areas. the consequences of radioactive contaminated food, which is particularly dangerous to pregnant women, sick people, young children and the elderly, often do not become apparent until years or even decades later. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. research into the causes of a host of new diseases, such as allergies, is in its infancy, yet food is still being irradiated. and the interactions with genetic engineering are also something that hardly anyone is concerned about. if, 25 years after chernobyl, sensitive people still cannot safely eat large quantities of domestic mushrooms, it is time not only to shut down nuclear power stations but also to put an end to nuclear testing. all of this is ultimately worthless if food controls in and around contaminated areas don't really work.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr bendt bendtsen, because of course the cip programme is a pillar for entrepreneurship and for financing this area. the jeremie, jasmine and, in particular, erasmus programmes for young entrepreneurs are also of particular importance and provide a simple way of getting to know the markets. i would like to thank mrs herczog for her support for the eib and the eif, the european investment fund, and for her support for an increase in the appropriations. but that would be my request to commissioner tajani in the 2020 targets we should also look at making it mandatory for smes to have 20% equity. we do it with banks, we should do it with smes. this would be very important for both sectors. i would also ask that profits should be taxed only on withdrawals from the holding. so the funds that have been generated should be available for equity. if an entrepreneur or an employee withdraws, it can be taxed normally. the last point which seems to me particularly important is the possibility of depreciation of not less than eur 5 000. we believe that if profits are to be made up to 5 000 euros, there should be a depreciation right, a so-called depreciation right. this would be the best basis for having risk capital and equity capital available for ordinary credit financing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union is always full of praise for small and mediumsized enterprises as the motor of the economy and the main employer, as an employer who does not throw workers out even in a recession. at the same time, the very same companies have been bureaucratically burdened and disadvantaged in eu-wide funding for decades. on paper, one sme initiative after another is being hammered out for almost as long, but in practice, with basel 2, and now even basel 3, access to capital is being cut off from smes. innovation is vital for the future of smes. but innovation also requires money and research. it is however commendable that smes should be given greater consideration in the future in the new eu procurement rules or that their access to eu research funding should be facilitated. unfortunately, many smes will not see the implementation of these long-debated measures because they may run out of money before then.
the commission has already done so. thank you so much for coming. you have listed 11 priorities today and one of your first sentences was 'the commission is delighted.' the danube strategy is a strategy that really comes from the bottom up. wherever we go in the member states, but also in the danube communities, this strategy is seen as necessary everywhere on the danube. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. cooperation in the cultural field will not be a big problem, it will work. the danube region has long been a cultural partner. the concerns are more about the sustainability and the threat to the danube. we have heard today that we must develop the danube as a transport route because we - and i am also a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - really see here an alternative to not increasing, if not reducing, co2 emissions, which is perhaps too much to ask for. but we see the great danger for the whole danube. if we consider the danube and its tributary as a large ecosystem, then i see in this danube strategy a very great opportunity, but on the other hand it requires a great deal of foresight in the formulation of the strategy. there will be calls for money, there will be demands for money. but it will be up to you and the commission, and of course also parliament, to decide together that all the funds used here will really help to preserve the ecological service system that the danube represents - its tributaries, the forests, the dry meadows, the wetlands - in the future. this is a basic condition for the further development of europe. this danube strategy really offers an opportunity to invest in green energy, to create sustainability from the bottom up. the opportunity, the enthusiasm of the people, of the stakeholders, of the decision-makers, is there now. we should all use this together, because here we can set an example and live by it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. the danube strategy is designed to promote long-term cooperation in improving the transport network and infrastructure for environmental protection. this includes wastewater treatment plants, environmental technology and biodiversity projects. - very good. what i am missing, however, in the environmental pillar, commissioner, is the issue of environmental safety in connection with nuclear energy. the fact is that some of the most controversial nuclear power stations in europe - mochovce, temelin, belene - are located in the danube region, and many of them are soviet-era and have serious and dangerous shortcomings. despite the serious transnational consequences of a negligent nuclear policy, the neighbouring regions of neighbouring countries are not heard at all, or at least insufficiently, and are not adequately included in the epc procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the danube region is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the danube is a lifeline which, despite the apparent decline in europe, continues to divide, the danube area an almost closed cultural zone from passau to the black sea. the danube strategy aims to make better use of this river, which flows through eight eu member states and six non-eu countries, as a transport route, which is likely to be accompanied by deepening of the channels. the energy issue, and therefore possibly even the expansion of hydroelectric power stations, is also to be dealt with in the context of the danube strategy. the strategy is also intended to be a major driver of economic activity. it is hoped that the new eu flagship project 'donaustrategy' will then soon be filled with tangible and visible content. the extent to which the project will really come to life will certainly depend, among other things, on how the tension between the objectives of environmental protection and connecting the danube area is resolved and whether the danube will be sufficient as a common denominator for the implementation of this mammoth project. the danube strategy will not only address environmental aspects in order to avoid further stress on the danube ecosystem. it would be particularly welcome if cooperation with croatia under the danube strategy would bring progress on the restitution claims of the danube swabians displaced after the first world war.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not long ago that the rapporteurs on the swift agreement asserted in the plenary that intra-european transfer data are not affected by the agreement. but that is a false statement, as we now know. it is true that only sepa transaction data is excluded from the agreement, but not eu standard transfers or even emergency transfers via swiftnet fin. so it turns out that there is a huge data leak from the swift agreement and that one of the main arguments of the swift proponents has collapsed in itself. but what is the european parliament doing now? i didn't say anything. i didn't say anything. there is no outcry, but only an attempt to quietly sweep this new information under the carpet. the german bundestag is the opposite! there has already been a debate in the german bundestag, and i have also received an e-mail today from the spd in germany, which is very clear that the european parliament must take action on this issue. i would like to call on parliament to do the same. i think it's very important that we stop this mass data transfer and start the negotiations again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i represent today anja weisgerber, our shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who is on maternity leave. we all wish her well. she has done an excellent job on this dossier. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it wasn't as difficult as the passenger cars, because it's not as emotional. nevertheless, the environmental and economic challenges were very great. in terms of climate policy, the burden must be shared by all the links in the chain, and this link in the chain had to do its part. but of course, the challenge was not to drag so much off here that this limb could tear. what do i mean? it is of course a great challenge for smes to bear the additional costs that such measures impose on them. a small business will consider very carefully whether it is profitable to exchange its old vehicle or to invest in a new one. the commission has therefore decided to keep an eye on the economic side rather than the technical one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall probably have to wait a few years to see whether this regulation is a good one, because it is only a good one if the emission levels are actually reached. if we go in the direction of fines, we have not reached our goal. we must now be very careful as to how this thing develops.
the commission has already done so. i cannot conceal that i am one of those who would have preferred to have opted for the 135 grams today. but i believe that this compromise reflects the reality that we are serious about working together to limit and reduce co2 emissions. overall, the european union has recently succeeded in reducing co2 emissions by 9%. the transport sector, however, is the one which has increased by almost 30%. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. but we should not be distracted by the fact that the real problems in the transport sector lie elsewhere, when there is an overall increase of 29%. this means: greater attention to the development of public transport, not burdening small and mediumsized enterprises but relieving commuters, and encouraging railway construction. because if we shift from individual transport to public transport, we can achieve much more. i think that today is a first step. it is 25% we are talking about!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not despite the signature of the relevant convention, the rights of persons with reduced mobility have not been taken into account in this dossier. i put this at the beginning of my comments on this report because i think the most serious shortcoming is that we have always added the restriction 'if possible'. unfortunately, i know the situation well enough to say that this 'if possible' often leads to the fact that it is not possible for people with reduced mobility to do anything really efficient and to get things done. i was particularly disappointed that they even restricted the formats in which information on buses should be made available. this too has been weakened, so that, for example, people with reduced mobility cannot even know or find out where to get assistance and help, and so on and so forth. there are still other shortcomings in this last round of negotiations, which my colleague mr cancian has really carried out with all his heart and soul. he tried very hard to make something really good out of it, but the council's hard-heartedness was just a blocking element. another element is the 250 kilometres mentioned earlier. i am afraid that the longer lines will be fragmented, that a whole line of 500 kilometres will be cut in two, so that there is no danger of having to apply passenger rights somewhere. this must then be taken into account in the implementation. the question of the establishment of a conciliation body was a positive one. it helps consumers. the positive was that there is the principle "now must be improved" and the positive is the training of the staff. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we have not really achieved a masterpiece of european legislation here!
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. however, some points in the proposal are greatly exaggerated. the passenger would be entitled to up to two nights' hotel accommodation if the departure of the regular bus is delayed by more than 90 minutes. but road transport in particular is partly subject to factors beyond the control of individual operators, such as traffic jams caused by accidents, bad weather and poor snow removal. the result is costly liability cases without the polluter-pays principle. the latest eu regulation on rail passenger rights is similar. since then, companies have had to pay for delays which they did not cause. the austrian federal railways, for example, have since been liable, even though trains from germany cross the border with great delays, for the delayed hours, which last year amounted to 2 800. such unintended results must be avoided in future!
in writing. − i am in favour of the conclusion of the eu-south africa agreement to further deepen bilateral cooperation. in addition to strengthening the rule of law, important steps are being taken in the fight against terrorism and its financing and in preventing the use of weapons of mass destruction. the overwhelming support of the european parliament for the agreement will lead to an improvement in working conditions, poverty reduction and improvement of the health system in south africa.
in writing. - i have followed the european parliament's recommendation to amend the provisions of the agreement on trade, development and cooperation in the field of rights, freedoms and security. i believe that the introduction of a results-oriented approach to development cooperation is important and necessary if progress is to be made towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. the priority objective of job creation is the main problem of economic development in south africa. for years, the country has been calling for a concept for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the eu, the country's main trading partner, can provide valuable assistance in the process of economic and social transformation.
in writing. − i support the eu's agreements with iceland, liechtenstein and norway on the continuation of the eea financing mechanism, as we should all be concerned with reducing social and economic disparities in the eea. the overall package of eur 1.8 billion also represents an increase of 31% and 22% respectively over the previous five-year period. the extension of the protocols on fishing licences and market access will settle important and lasting issues in the aquaculture sector.
in writing. − the recommendation concerns the conclusion of an agreement with third countries associated with schengen: iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein. they should be involved in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. this requires additional rules on the protection of the community's financial interests and on the court of auditors' audit powers. these additions are reasonable, and i have therefore agreed to the conclusion of the agreements.
in writing. − the eu offers a wide range of activities, particularly for service providers. the eu's single rules make it much easier for people to work across borders, and there are increasing incentives to spend a few years abroad. however, workers are often confronted with national service legislation of which they are unaware or have not been aware of the meaning, which often leads to problems or misunderstandings. i do not vote for the report because it does not deal sufficiently with the question of costs for the addressees.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the implementation of the services directive because i consider the parliament's report to be very balanced. it focuses on evaluating the practical difficulties and makes concrete proposals for their elimination. i come from a country which has not transposed the services directive into national law. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to implement this, together with measures to prevent wage and social dumping. i am particularly concerned about the clarification in the report on the implementation of the services directive, which highlights those areas which are explicitly excluded such as social services or health services . this must be respected in the implementation of the measures.
in writing. − in the eu, the services sector accounts for around 70% of gdp. in some countries, such as my home country of austria, this sector is a driver of economic growth. the aim of the directive is to remove unjustified obstacles to crossborder services. smes in particular are often faced with bureaucratic barriers and discrimination which prevent them from taking full advantage of the single market. the social characteristics of the various member states are taken into account. the increased control possibilities of the country of destination are an important step. however, an instrument for effective sanctioning of foreign service providers' breaches of the law should be provided promptly. i have agreed to mrs gebhardt's report because i hope that the implementation of the services directive will give new impetus to the labour market.
in writing. − in order to achieve a significant reduction in co2 emissions, manufacturers must convert vehicles so that they cannot exceed a certain value in the future. what seems technically feasible for passenger cars is not necessarily feasible for light commercial vehicles. since it seems impossible to change the shape of the companions, the engineers have to confine themselves to the engine and mechanics, which experts say is a lengthy process. this is why alternatives must be created which can reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles. two options are being considered: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the environmental performance of the road transport sector, including the introduction of a new road safety directive. i could not vote for the report because i think there are too few alternatives.
in writing. - i did not agree with mr callanan's report, although it is very sound and goes in the right direction. however, i think that we should be more ambitious in terms of co2 emissions per kilometre. i therefore support the commission's proposal of 135 g co2/km. the combination of emission communities which the manufacturer can calculate for his entire product range and a simultaneous speed limit of 120 km/h makes this goal seem achievable - certainly with effort. at the same time, and for the sake of our environment, we should not delay any deadlines. it should stay at 2014.
in writing. the eu patent has been in dispute for more than 30 years. this is a period of 30 years in which european firms have had to cope with high translation costs and, in some cases, with competitive disadvantages on the world market. intangible assets such as trademarks and patents are difficult to quantify but are used as collateral for loans and are included in ratings. in this sense, the 'new patent law' developed under the enhanced cooperation procedure, which applies at least in parts of the eu and requires only translation into german, english and french, will certainly be a bureaucratic relief. the new regulation also strengthens the position of german, which is the most widely spoken native language in the eu, according to the 2006 survey. the idea is good in principle, but the language arrangements are not entirely clear in the explanations, so i abstained.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the introduction of enhanced cooperation on unitary patent protection because i believe that the blockade in the council is not justified by the language regime. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. we shall be taking the lead in this matter in the legal affairs committee and will certainly be making many further amendments. i would like to make it clear that the view that parliament is losing its rights by the approval it has received today is wrong. the legislative process is just beginning. today's vote was merely parliament's permission to open the procedure for enhanced cooperation by a group of member states, which was only made possible by the treaty of lisbon. the procedure will continue as follows: (a) consultation of the parliament on the language arrangements (the decision is in this case with the council); (b) involvement of the parliament in the drafting of the content of the patent regulation under the ordinary legislative procedure; (c) obtaining parliament's consent on the issue of patents. these participation possibilities remain unchanged. even those meps from member states not participating in enhanced cooperation do not lose their right to vote in the further procedure as european and not national representatives.
in writing. − in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency, appropriate action must be taken. prevention and assistance for those affected are important! compensation payments to farmers are the basic prerequisite for helping farmers who have been harmed through no fault of their own. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant compensation to farmers in one member state who are affected by pollution from such an accident in another member state. the effects of nuclear accidents must not become an existential threat to farmers. i support mr belet's report because we must ensure that farmers are protected against damage caused by external parties.
in writing. - radioactive contamination may be of importance for some foodstuffs for many years. the problem is that in areas that have been contaminated with radioactivity for centuries, contaminated foods such as the fruits of the forest are not only consumed locally but are often sold as safe in uncontaminated areas. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear accident. causal research into a host of new diseases, such as allergies, is in its infancy. yet food is irradiated, and the interaction with genetic engineering is not a concern. all established limits are ultimately worthless if food controls in and around contaminated areas do not work. i took these considerations into account in the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european court of human rights has ruled that the asylum system in greece is inhumane. it is inhuman, because it can take up to five years to reach a final decision. but the procedures are taking forever across europe because of the lies being told, the burning or forging of documents, the ignoring of orders, the exploitation and manipulation of the asylum system. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. in the face of the eu's failed asylum system, it is finally time to be honest and say that the eu cannot take in economic refugees from all over the world. and yet, at the same time, it is paying billions for development aid and democracy building in the countries of origin. finally, there is a need for a clear definition of the right to asylum, strictly based on the geneva convention, in order to put an end to the practice of asylum seekers seeking to gain wealth, and which also lays down an obligation for asylum seekers to participate in the procedure. humanitarian tricks are not legal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last time there was a massive wave of refugees like this, in the face of the tunisian revolution, was perhaps in 1989 with the collapse of communism. and the eu has learned nothing from this. she was completely taken aback by the influx of refugees. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but that's the problem. unless economic refugees are returned immediately, and without repatriation assistance, we will continue to be inundated by waves of economic refugees. tens of thousands of people in the neighbouring countries are already in the starting blocks. mass amnesty and a generous disregard for the fact that most are simply wealthy migrants have repeatedly spurred new flows of refugees in the past. if we now introduce distribution quotas for asylum procedures instead of immediately returning economic refugees, we will only be creating new incentives for similar operations.
i have to say, madam president, the eu will soon see a reversal of the population pyramid, with the over-55 age group accounting for the largest share, life expectancy continuing to rise and birth rates remaining low, and young people entering the labour market at an increasingly later age. the consequences are well known: an ageing population and ever-increasing pension funding shortages. what we need, therefore, is a family-friendly policy in europe, such as the introduction of family tax splitting in the area of income tax or similar measures in the social field, where the contribution of families to safeguarding the generational contract with a reduction in the tax burden should be taken into account. we must also create incentives to keep our seniors in the workforce for as long as possible. i would also like to send a clear message to the commissioner: the much-vaunted mass immigration is in any case the wrong way to secure our pensions and it also endangers social peace in europe.
in writing. in the commission's initiative for this green paper, a number of issues seem to me to be particularly important: i believe it is our duty to prevent our elderly fellow citizens, who have built up our present wealth during their active working life, from being left in precarious old age situations. at the same time, the report takes due account of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission should make a clearer call for equality between men and women. women are more likely than men to be employed in atypical employment contracts, their retirement income is very often lower and this increases the risk of poverty in old age. adequate and secure pension systems are always long-term, generational contracts. i would therefore encourage the commission to use the green paper to launch initiatives to make solidarity between the generations more widely known in the field of old age insurance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner füle for what he has said today, and for his commitment over a long period of time. i would also like to thank mr lajčák for his commitment over the last few months. he's used to tackling delicate problems and solving them. i wish you both the best of luck. the debate has shown a genuine common spirit, a common support for the efforts of the two sides to find a solution in albania. i admit i was skeptical when we started this debate. because nothing could be worse for the development of albania than one side accusing the other side here in this house of what the two major political groups - the government and the opposition - accuse each other of at home. i am very glad that we have a common position, at least for now and i hope it will remain so. both sides, both political groups - the government and the opposition - must stick to finding a way out of the crisis now. i would like to join my colleague, mr belder, in saying: i came to albania fairly soon after the hoxha regime was overthrown. i was very moved by the atmosphere there, by the enthusiasm of the young people. and when i see what's come out and what hasn't come out, it's a big disappointment. i must say that the political class in albania is not capable of really satisfying the wishes and the expectations of the people. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. but the crucial thing is that we say to both sides now: please sit down and try to make the local elections at least transparent and open. we also need to appeal to both sides to be ready to implement what the odihr has found necessary for this election, either through legislation or in practice, so that we can really talk about fair and transparent elections. i also believe that this parliament should send as many observers as possible to the elections, even though they are local elections, because the elections could be the starting point, the beginning of a new political climate in albania. albania is in dire need of this. i agree with everyone: if albania does not change, it will be isolated. we do not want albania to be isolated, we want albania to take the road to europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank commissioner füle and mr lajčák for the work they are doing here and for trying to find a solution. i am also glad that the debate today has not turned into a hack-and-slash between the political families, which are also in conflict with each other in albania. i would have found that very regrettable for our parliament and i hope that it will not come to that. the institutional crisis that albania is experiencing is in fact also a crisis of political culture. it has to do with verbal violence that then escalated into street violence, with four people having to die. i too join those who say that this must be investigated and it must be clarified who is really to blame for this. but if verbal violence turns into violence in the streets, this is something that can jeopardize albania's path to the european union. as commissioner füle has already explained, the point is that the political opponents in albania see clearly and unmistakably that it is their duty to act in the interests of the albanian people. and the way to the european union is to find a solution to this political crisis, to sit down at a table and stop playing this blame game all the time, always blaming the other person and not seeing that you can also contribute something to change the situation. it is necessary. this eternal "who started it" and "who is to blame" is something that has not really lost anything in a european state. i hope the opponents learn from this and say, "this is no longer possible". if mr rama and his party, as he has announced to some of us today, actually want to take part in the local elections and now also nominate people for the electoral commission, then i welcome that and hope that this is a first step towards actually holding these local elections in an open and transparent way and that the result will be accepted afterwards. the liberalization already mentioned received massive support from parliament. my appeal to commissioner füle: i hope that the commission will not consider suspending the visa-free regime for the citizens of albania as a possible means of sanctioning the two parties to the conflict. i hope that will not be the case. the other question is, what options are there if the two don't agree to put more pressure? one possibility is - as my colleague cornelissen has already said - that the ipa funds will no longer be managed by the government itself, but that this will be taken over by the commission. the other option would be to freeze the ipa funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what are you planning to do here in case there's no solution? the council of europe's marty report accused the albanian secret services of being involved in or supporting organ trafficking. do you know whether the albanian intelligence services and the albanian judiciary are prepared to cooperate in this matter?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i was one of those in this parliament who strongly promoted the accession of bulgaria to the european union. i am very happy that bulgaria is now a member state, but i am very disappointed at some of the measures taken by the present bulgarian government. yes, we fully support the fight against corruption. this is a very important fight, and we fully support what the commission has said that there must be laws in bulgaria concerning videotaping and interception. the commissioner was very careful. he said it seems to comply with european standards and he said very clearly that the measures must be proportionate. is it proportionate when all of a sudden, in a timeframe of three years, interception grows from 6 000 in 2008 to 16 000 in 2010? is it proportionate and fair that only 2% of the videotaping is going to the courts and is used for 1% of convictions? is it proportionate and fair that the proceedings are filtered by the ministry of the interior? why is everything not given to the judicial authorities? why is it filtered by the ministry of the interior? what does the ministry of the interior do with what is coming in? i would like to ask the commission to look into its monitoring process regarding what is happening to the rest of the data. there are also reports in the parliament in sofia and in the media in bulgaria that there are serious doubts that the ministry of the interior can protect the information. we have already seen leakage of the information. you mentioned schengen and, yes, we want the schengen border extended. it now includes bulgaria and romania, but when we see what is happening here you cannot be surprised that some in europe are critical about this enlargement. i would ask the commissioner to do his job, as he did, and ask the bulgarian government to stop this kind of wrong implementation and wrong law enforcement tending towards a very restrictive practice concerning these interceptions. be fair, be open, be transparent and stop violations of this kind of the spirit of european laws. (the speaker agreed to take a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149(8)).
mr president, we have received different figures from bulgarian sources. perhaps it should be left up to the commission to prove who is right. as far as i know from sources in bulgaria, there is a very low percentage of referrals to prosecutors, of which very few lead to convictions. this is what we know; this is the information we have from various sources. there is also, i think, a report from the parliament in bulgaria. the commission should look into that. why is there this scandal in bulgaria? we really have to look into this matter. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, it always seems to be a party political issue for mr stoyanov and mr busuttil. for me, it is not a party political issue. for me, it is a basic issue of rights, of human rights, and of obeying and respecting european law, regardless of who transferred it to the ministry of the interior. secondly, the important thing is how it is used. you can use the same instrument in a very restricted way, or you can use it in a very wide way. as i said before, it is very interesting what is done with the data kept by the ministry of the interior. that is the major issue. there is always the danger that when so much data is kept and not given to the prosecutors, that it will be misused. this may be politically motivated or it may be personally motivated. we should fight against this kind of misuse.
the commission has already done so. i have followed this debate and the debate on albania very closely. what a difference! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there's a lot of innuendo here that's completely unproven. the aim is to bring the two major parties together. here is the aim of some of you, that a wedge is driven between the major parties. there is a desire for the parties to meet and work together for the good of the people. unfortunately, this is another case of prejudice on the part of a section of parliament. why are you doing this? why do i hear from you not a single fact, but only statements like "it seems to be", "we have been informed from certain sources", "we have heard that"... if you see it that way, why not go to the relevant committees in parliament? why don't you go to the security committee? why don't you ask the commission? no, you are forcing a public debate here because you want this debate for political reasons! we reject that. we don't want that. we do not understand that this debate is being conducted on the backs of the bulgarian government and the bulgarian people. if there is something to be discussed, i invite you to do so in the relevant committees. we take it for granted that there must be the rule of law, that there must be a functioning judiciary, that there must also be appropriate parliamentary control, especially on such sensitive matters as this instrument, by a parliament set up by this government, in which all parliamentary groups are represented. i am grateful that commissioner malmström said last week in sofia that this is an internal matter and that the commissioner also made it clear that the bulgarian government had taken all the necessary steps.
mr president, on a point of order, there was a guy up there filming us, including when we were signing. he says he is from the bulgarian delegation. i do not know how that can be, as all the bulgarian members seem to be here. it is very strange that somebody has come into the chamber and filmed us while we were speaking and signing. perhaps the services could look into what has happened, because it is unacceptable for outsiders to come in here and film what we are doing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was actually going to address you directly. i find it very regrettable that you - while we are all trying to make the parliamentary debates more lively - do not use the opportunity of the blue card. so there could have been a substantial qualitative increase in this debate. i do not think that the commissioner has any right to say what he thinks about the matter. it's pointless in that way. this is what a colleague has called a 'karaoke parliament' for a long time, when you do not even consider an attempt to conduct debates and improve them in any way.
mr president, i can only congratulate ms keller for what she has said and her analysis. the question though is this. we have known about these problems for two decades now. ms keller, since you have dealt with the issue in more depth than most of us, is there any particular point that makes you optimistic that what we are about to decide upon could actually bring some progress, or that the world bank is now finally heading in the right direction?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the 1970s, in the early 1980s, the ecological blindness of the world bank was indeed a big issue. the same speeches were made then as here today and certain promises were made by the world bank. they have acted as if they were reforming the world bank. decades have passed since then. for various reasons, i have recently been to various countries called developing countries. it was unbearable! where are all these projects, where are the solar panels in the tropics, where are the sustainable forests in the amazon or in vietnam, where are the solar panels and wind turbines in kenya? there's nothing there! the only thing that has happened is that the system of self-government that exists at european level has been perfectly copied. it has essentially been self-managed, playing into the hands of a few major stakeholders, but nothing has been achieved. and then we are surprised when citizens from the third world say in complete desperation: 'i don't want to live in the caribbean anymore, i want to go to the usa and through the loophole of martinique into the eu'. we are surprised that people in the maghreb are now all rushing to join us. there is an incredible amount of falsehood in this debate! you have to understand the radicalization of millions of people who simply say "we've had enough". anyone who looks at the european parliament's motion for a resolution now will have to admit that it could not have been that. we'd have to speak with a much louder voice. we should call on the world bank to do something more explicitly and to take action. what is the point of all the committees here - the development committee, the acp assembly and so on - if the result is just a dull piece of paper, some of which falls back in the conclusions of the debate of the late 1970s? this is embarrassing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner piebalgs in particular. as a former energy commissioner, he is of course well aware of our strategy. i believe that there is still a great deal to be done in development cooperation, particularly in the field of technical assistance. europe must not only be a payer, but above all a player in the world bank. a stronger role for europe and the european institutions in the world bank will therefore be a key challenge in seeing how development aid can promote family businesses, how small and mediumsized enterprises can be promoted in energy production, because many small businesses are also, in the end, economies of scale and can offer a corresponding return on investment. one of the most important issues is, of course, the storage of energy. this will play a central role in development cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very good cooperation which has led to a report which i hope will be widely accepted. i would like to begin with the very successful visit to this house yesterday by prime minister kosor. you, mr president, have pointed out that croatia's accession is not only important for croatia, not only important for the european union, but also important as a signal for the whole region. the first point i would like to make is the reforms. if a country does its homework, we must also keep the commitments made in connection with membership. as mr martonyi and the commissioner have said, not everything is done. the message must also be to take the final steps of reform so that we can achieve the common objective of concluding the treaty in june. in his interview with mrs kosor, martin schulz said: 'yes, the conflict in the bay of piran would have been resolved by war in the past. today, you sit down at a table and try to find a procedure to negotiate things. this is also an important signal to the region as a whole - i am thinking here of serbia and kosovo - that such conflicts are not resolved by fighting, but only by negotiations and talks. the prime minister said that in her country the government and the opposition were on the same page when it came to eu affairs. and my last conversation with zoran milanovic, the leader of the social democratic opposition, confirmed this. we discussed albania yesterday. albania could also take an example of how to act together on important common issues, beyond all political disputes. we should therefore send a double message to zagreb and to croatia as a whole: yes, we - the council, the commission and the european parliament - are working together to ensure that the negotiations can be concluded in june, that the treaty can be concluded, that we can then give our consent in the autumn and that the ratification process can then actually take place. but please also this to the address of croatia settle the remaining issues! the commission has already taken bold steps in the fight against corruption, but there are still further, final steps to be taken. the reform of the judiciary and the question of the shipyards still have a lot to do. but these are all things which we also point out in our report, which are not insurmountable obstacles but which represent the possibility that croatia will still meet the requirements in question. in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, a truly common message should be sent from here today to croatia, but also to the region: whoever does his homework, the european union will also honour the promise that he can become a member of this union. as you said yesterday, mr president, it is also in the interests of the european union to take in croatia, provided that it has fulfilled its obligations. in this context, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again. and if we can send this signal to croatia and the region together, we would have taken a big step forward towards a peaceful integration of the whole region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in croatia is on the right track. the theory is complete, but it has to be proven in practice. but there are three open areas where there is still real work to be done. first, croatia must work even more closely with the international court of justice in the hague to advance the issue of human rights and the prosecution of former war criminals. as amnesty international points out in behind a wall of silence, there are still egregious cases of human rights violations that need to be addressed. the protection of human rights is a key issue for the eu. we must not compromise here and we are not compromising here! secondly, the corruption. it continues to move through society, the economy and politics. i welcome the efforts of the croatian government in tackling corruption in its own country, but at the same time we must insist that this problem be pursued with vigour. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council of ministers has adopted a decision on the appointment of a new president of the republic of croatia.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is not surprising, since it is firmly rooted in the cultural history of central europe. croatia has demonstrated its eu maturity on several occasions, including the settlement of the fisheries dispute. of course, there is a need for further efforts in the area of corruption, but there is clearly no lack of goodwill here either, as can be seen in the arrest of the former head of government, sanader. there has been a lot of movement in the investigation of war crimes. the role of the german arrest warrants vis-à-vis high-ranking former yugoslav intelligence officers remains to be seen. croatia seems ready to put the past behind it, for example in terms of support for returning war refugees. it would be desirable if the eu would not only support war refugees but also displaced persons and seek a solution to the still open danube swabian restitution claims.
i have to say, madam president, it is clear to everyone in this room that the closer europe grows together, the closer economic policy coordination must be. that is why an instrument such as the european semester makes sense. it must, however, stop where it interferes with tasks which are traditionally the responsibility of the social partners, such as wage and collective bargaining. we really have to practice abstinence here; it makes no sense for europe to determine the level of wages in individual countries. we should focus more on removing market barriers to make the european economy flourish. this applies to oligopolies, monopolies, but also to barriers to market access. nor can it be that certain profit margins are guaranteed to different sectors. this is where more competition is needed to unlock the potential of the european economy. another task for the european union must be to bring our infrastructures up to date. it's about energy, transportation, communications. here too europe should have the means to overcome the bottlenecks that exist between member states. we should also consider what resources we can put at the disposal of this europe. this includes a clean own resources base. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council of ministers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but here again, the question of money is crucial.
i have to say, madam president, the expectations of the strategy are different. while some are sure that this is just hot air being produced and that the strategy is not worth the paper it is printed on, we are faced with very dramatic real scenarios - i am thinking here only of the flexibility of the labour markets. this brings masses of low-skilled, cheap labour to central europe, and wage dumping is the result. the strategy's stated target of 40% of the younger generation having a university degree seems to be a rather naive one. i said, "for what?" we already have a situation - i am thinking of italy - where there are hardly any skilled jobs for young academics and they have to make do with cheap jobs. why do we really need such a high proportion of academics if there are no jobs available? it is true that we need higher education, but we cannot achieve this by simply placing a university degree on the backs of 40% of the population. this is the wrong way!
in writing. − the health of people is the most important asset in our society and should be promoted and maintained by appropriate means. the increased availability of counterfeit medicines is exposing more and more patients in europe to incalculable risks, which could even cost them their lives. i have voted against the report, however, because i do not think that the measures proposed, particularly the import controls, go far enough.
in writing. - 100 million jobs in the eu are provided by smes. however, these are now facing increasingly frequent problems of financing after the crisis, as they are mostly financed by external sources. banks are no longer lending to them, but only under strict conditions of loan facilitation. it would be desirable to be able to offer solutions that are as unbureaucratic as possible and that are fair to both sides. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that smes should be given financial support to keep the economy stable.
in writing. − within the european union, there is still a considerable wealth gap, which will certainly be felt with the abolition of the labour market protection periods. the demographic change and the consequent un-financiability of pension systems are problems facing every country. the private pension as an additional pillar has not brought about the much-propagated relief of pension systems, but has put additional pressure on the state pension system. in this context, for example, the population of hungary was forced to return to the state system. in this context, the untenable return promises of pension funds, which have revealed their potential for problems in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, are also problematic. interventions such as those at eu level often lead to a cascade of problems, such as the compensation of pensions, which have opened the door to abuse. the details of pension schemes vary from one country to another and must remain so, which is why i reject the report absolutely.
in writing. − the eu will soon see a reversal of the population pyramid: the over-55 age group will account for the largest share, life expectancy will continue to rise, birth rates will remain low and young people will enter the labour market at an increasingly late age. the result is that we all know the ageing of the population and the increasing shortages in pension funding. what we really need is, in particular, a more family-friendly policy in the member states: i am thinking, for example, of the introduction of family tax splitting in income tax law. social legislation should take account of the contribution of families to safeguarding the generational contract by gradually reducing the burden of contributions. these aspects are not or only inadequately covered in the report. the much-vaunted mass immigration is the wrong way to secure our pensions. finally, pension policy should remain a matter for the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in supporting the motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on croatia, i would like to express my support for the early accession of agram to the eu. this country is not only culturally and historically rooted in central europe, but also fulfils the accession criteria. while efforts are still needed in some areas, such as the fight against corruption, there is no lack of goodwill in the face of the criminal prosecution of former prime minister sanader. croatia also seems to be ready to put the past behind it, as shown by the support it has given to returning war refugees. this is something which has been explained in detail in the resolution. however, i have also expressed my opposition to the politically correct language of the resolution by supporting several amendments. in some ways, she's more than unbearable. however, in order not to block the croatian people's way into the eu and to demonstrate our goodwill, i finally voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − croatia is the country with the greatest progress among the candidate countries: croatia has demonstrated its eu maturity on several occasions, for example by settling the fisheries dispute. progress has also been made in the fight against corruption, as evidenced by the arrest of former prime minister sanader. as regards the handling of war crimes, croatia seems to be clearing up its past, for example in terms of supporting returning war refugees. the motion for a resolution contains some unnecessary, overly 'politically correct' words, such as the protection of transsexuals in article 5. the report is, however, on the whole a good one, highlighting progress and aiming at a speedy accession process. this is welcome, as croatia is firmly rooted in central europe in cultural and historical terms. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs is very balanced. it addresses all remaining weaknesses currently preventing the conclusion of the last open negotiating chapters. in its recommendations to the croatian authorities, the report pays particular attention to sustainability, including reforms in the judiciary and the fight against corruption, the assurance of which will be the key to croatia's future democratic development. the report also makes the important point that the good efforts of the croatian government must be pursued beyond eu accession without any loss of ambition.
i have to say, madam president, the supply of goods for daily use, and especially of agricultural raw materials, must not be left to the short-term profit-making efforts of speculators. the new raw materials strategy announced by the commission is therefore welcome in order to ensure transparency and stability in the raw materials markets. in view of the forecasts that food production will need to increase by 70% by 2050 to meet the demand then existing, particular attention should be paid to the so-called third lever recycling and better use of raw materials and proposals should be made soon. in the field of raw materials diplomacy, i expect the eu to provide developing countries with the know-how to mine raw materials in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
in writing. the fact that food prices have reached a new high since price monitoring began is more pressing than ever in the face of current political conflicts. finally, it is a question of food security, and in developing countries, of the basic food security. the european union is called upon to take the lead in the global fight against poverty and hunger some 1.4 billion people are affected by extreme poverty. poverty is also an issue within european borders. the only guarantee of supply in europe is the common european agricultural policy. the challenges facing agriculture are great and fuel the tendency to produce 'more from less'. higher food prices do not automatically translate into higher incomes for farmers; there is a widening gap between producer and consumer prices. the reality of price control is complex: scarce raw materials, higher manufacturing costs, high fuel prices, dependence on crops, exports and the world market a dense web of causes that must be untangled by targeted action. to tackle the root causes, action and unity across all policy areas are urgently needed. the commission is called upon to make a fundamental contribution to the strengthening of agricultural production in europe and in the developing countries. speculation in our most important commodities is unethical: we must do more to combat it.
the commission has already done so. revolutionary upheavals are naturally fraught with great emotion. we should be careful, however, even as europeans on the outside, to avoid such emotions and to be aware of the reality. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the middle east. it looks like we have a military regime in egypt, which we hope is a transitional regime, and in tunisia, a regime that is unable to protect thousands or tens of thousands of people from illegal immigration. the europeans must be friends of the peoples and allies of freedom. we must also do so pro futuro in relation to the regimes and dictatorships that are still firmly in place in other arab countries. i believe that the only way we can do that is if we have no illusions, if we help these people develop what is essential to democracy: the rule of law, free markets and structures that make democracy even possible. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
mr cohn-bendit, you have heard me say that the eu must take a stand against dictators who are still firmly in power and who are still accepted partners of the european union, and that it must stand up for human rights, democracy and the rule of law even before revolutionary changes take place in the countries concerned. however, democratization in these countries is not really a reason for asylum, and if democracy breaks out there now, then it must be possible for people to stay there.
if i understood you correctly, you said that in many european countries there are restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. i would like to know which countries you are referring to and what you personally intend to do about it.
my question also concerns the danube strategy. we want to improve the quality of the danube's water dramatically. is there an action plan being planned by all the member states to gradually include the sewage systems coming from the tributaries so that we also get clean tributaries, so that the quality of the water up to the mouth of the danube is improved? are action plans foreseen by all member states concerned?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is very good that you are here today, commissioner, because your efforts over the years in this area have been very well recognised. however, you know from your own experience that it is still a long way off. it is really important that people who are included in expert committees can be subject to a procedure and be sanctioned if they give incorrect information. it is unheard of how people give themselves away as independent and are in fact in clear dependencies. you have to punish that, or it's a toothless bite. the second point is the question of who is represented. you know this from the economic field. it is in this context that it would be in the commission's own interest to open up to representatives of civil society. if you look at the results in the area of financial scandals, in the area of economic crisis, it was often very badly advised. it's a matter of urgency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner barnier has acknowledged that the commission's expert groups in the financial field are unbalanced and one-sided. currently, 11 out of 25 expert groups in the financial sector are dominated by the financial industry. in some groups, more representatives of the financial sector than responsible officials are represented. all these representatives have to do is sign a pre-printed declaration to act in the public interest when they see a conflict of interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation is also serious for the experts at the european food safety authority. the opinions on the risks of genetic engineering refer to manufacturers' opinions and the links with genetic engineering lobbies are obvious. the chief executive of the eu's main plant genetics agency works for the international life science institute, which is funded by industry. in other words, eu legislation based mainly on corporate and bank opinions is dangerous, irresponsible for eu citizens and should therefore be stopped immediately.
in writing. - the european parliament's approval of the report by mrs zalba-bidegain on the bilateral safeguard clauses is an important step forward in the framework of the free trade agreement between the eu and the republic of korea. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his involvement in the trilogue negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission and to stress the importance of these safeguard clauses for the european economy. they allow for a short-term increase in tariffs to protect the european economy from excessive import growth. i am in favour of such safeguard clauses and have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. − the eu-north korea free trade agreement contains a bilateral safeguard clause allowing the reintroduction of the mfn rate if, as a result of the liberalisation of trade flows, a good is imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions, either in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, that it causes or threatens to cause significant injury to the eu industry producing similar or directly competing goods. the report makes important suggestions to ensure that this safeguard clause can be effectively enforced in an emergency to avert significant damage to the eu industry. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in support of the eu's external policy, the european investment bank also finances projects outside the eu, for example in the field of development cooperation. the guarantee fund, set up in 2009, is designed to guarantee the eib's liquidity in the event of default. the evaluation and assessment process has led to an extension of the list of countries eligible for eib financing and to the corresponding adjustments to the financial framework. i cannot fully agree with the proposed amendments and therefore abstained.
in writing. − the european investment bank contributes to the implementation of the eu's external policy by financing outside the union. i have agreed to the report by mr kalfin because i particularly welcome the eur 2 billion for climate change and adaptation and the specific support for smes. the report also calls for comprehensive information and transparency obligations for citizens, parliament and the commission. the rights of parliament are respected, which i also consider to be essential.
in writing. - the european parliament's approval of mr sturdy's report is a clear signal from the members. today we voted overwhelmingly in favour of the most comprehensive free trade agreement ever negotiated by the eu. this is a clear yes to the european economy and a clear yes to the european economic centre. with customs savings of eur 1.6 billion and an increased trade volume of eur 19 billion, the benefits are clear. in particular, the agricultural sector can expect a customs loss of eur 380 million. this will open up new export opportunities for our local farmers. i have given my consent to the entry into force of the free trade agreement.
in writing. - the eu must revise its naive expectations of arab democratic aspirations. with all the cheers for the "arab spring", brussels must now recognise that the changes in tunisia and egypt are not only consuming hundreds of millions of euros in aid payments on the ground, but are also being reflected in the thousands of economic refugees for european citizens who have already arrived in europe. the people of tunisia and egypt have taken to the streets not only for democracy and freedom of expression but also and above all for greater prosperity. and this prosperity will not come overnight, so we can expect a further increase in the flow of economic refugees from north africa. europe has a lot to offer here, especially since the arab countries have seen a real population explosion over the last two or three decades. the eu will also be measured by whether it respects democratic elections even if islamists come to power. in egypt, the muslim brotherhood, with a voter turnout of 30%, is the only well-organised opposition force - the eu should not indulge in illusions but think seriously about how it will deal with an islamist victory. i voted in favour of the report because it dealt mainly with these matters.
in writing. the resolution welcomes the reforms in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social justice in egypt. the resolution calls for the lifting of the state of emergency, responsible governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in egypt, such as freedom of conscience, religion and thought, freedom of expression, and freedom of the press and media. the aim is a rapid transition to a peaceful, democratic and pluralistic egypt. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the danube strategy aims to make better use of the river as a transport route, which is likely to involve deepening the channels. the danube strategy will also deal with energy - and possibly even the expansion of hydropower plants. the strategy is also intended to be a major economic driver. it is hoped that the new eu demonstration project 'donaustrategy' will soon be replenished with visual and tangible content. the extent to which the project will really come to life will certainly depend, among other things, on how the tension between the objectives of environmental protection and connecting the danube area is resolved and whether the danube will be sufficient as a common denominator for the implementation of this mammoth project. i voted for this project.
in writing. − the eu strategy for the danube region and its 115 million inhabitants offers the opportunity to accelerate crossborder cooperation and sustainable economic and cultural development in the region. in june, the council should set a timetable and concrete implementation steps. the strategy focuses on improving mobility, energy supply, safety, and environmental and disaster protection. i hope for a new territorial dynamic and for the involvement of all stakeholders and civil society actors to make the most of the projects supported. it would also be desirable to have an initiative at macro-regional level for greater security in nuclear policy in the danube region. it is in this region that there are still nuclear power stations which pose a threat to the environment and the population. however, the eia procedures do not take into account neighbouring countries and regions at all, or even inadequately. we need to act. i very much welcome the fact that the danube strategy uses only the funds already made available by the structural funds (around eur 1 billion for the period 2007-2013), i.e. no additional funds are allocated and no new institutions or legislation are needed. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on russia addresses some essential points which are essential for any democracy. independent courts, speedy and fair trials and an efficient criminal justice system. in this respect, the text also has to be accepted when it speaks of the need to eliminate existing shortcomings in the russian legal and judicial system. the condemnation of the terrorist attacks at domodedovo airport is also important and shows solidarity with this important partner country for the eu. however, the tone adopted in relation to certain pending or ongoing legal proceedings (e.g. khodorkovsky) is wrong and undiplomatic. when one speaks of "politically motivated trials" or "serious legal issues", one is taking over the dictation of the political opponents of the russian prime minister. this is made clear by the demand for 'an independent judicial review' of the judgments. this is a general assumption that the russian judiciary is not independent and that it makes "wrong" judgments. these 'judgments' from outside are not meaningful due to lack of knowledge of the true facts and, moreover, also constitute interference in internal affairs. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − around 1.5 million people worldwide, mainly in developing countries in africa and east asia, still lack access to electricity. in rural areas in particular, it can be observed that for this reason, residents very often resort to traditional biomass fuels, such as charcoal stoves. however, the health risk is not negligible. the world bank, which is committed to promoting sustainable energy, should be called upon to give priority to such regional projects over large-scale commercial projects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. in order to achieve environmental and economic sustainability, it would be desirable to give priority to small, alternative and decentralised energy projects, as this could prevent the purchase of energy, which is often more expensive. i shall abstain on this point because we have to wait and see what the world bank's strategy will be by the middle of the year.
in writing. − with the 2020 strategy, the european union has made employment policy a central issue. it is important that all member states work together and in unison to achieve the stated objectives in order to achieve a high level of employment and productivity in europe. these objectives will only be achieved if we work together in areas such as tackling structural unemployment, building a skilled workforce, promoting job quality and improving the performance of education systems. i therefore support the motion for a resolution which sets out guidelines for economic and employment policy for the member states.
in writing. − the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy would be essential to strengthening the eu and should not be purely optional. the strategy aims to promote the future prospects of european citizens for secure and sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress. the commission has also proposed that the community method should be strengthened and the objectives incorporated into economic policy. in order to ensure the financing of the strategy, a catalogue of policy initiatives, which would include the involvement of the eib and the ebrd, and the attraction of private funds, would be essential. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. there are also many flagship initiatives, such as the 'innovation union', 'youth on the move' and 'industrial policy for the age of globalisation', to name a few. i did not vote for the resolution because, above all, the financing of the europe 2020 strategy could not be clarified.
in writing. − one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to achieve an employment rate of 75%. the economic crisis continues to challenge the eu to cope with rising unemployment and social exclusion. the european employment strategy, with its guidelines, is therefore an essential instrument for curbing unemployment. it also aims to steer the efforts of the member states in the right direction. this means, among other things, that member states are invited to involve the social partners, regional and local authorities and civil society in their action. this should be achieved by ensuring that both employment guidelines and job creation are guaranteed. to underline the seriousness of this core objective, member states should report on progress in the future. in addition, individual states should also focus on national objectives such as the integration problems of subgroups such as women, disabled people and older workers, and the working poor problem. i did not vote for the resolution because i think that there is too much interference with national law, especially in the area of social partners' schemes.
in writing. - i welcome the epp resolution on the current problem of rising food prices. the european union is called upon to take the lead in the global fight against poverty and hunger, and in developing countries it is vital to provide basic services. however, high prices are also a problem within the eu. the causes of this situation are the scarcity of raw materials, high fuel prices, dependence on crops and exports, the world market situation and price competition. the only guarantee that europe will continue to be supplied with food is the common european agricultural policy. farmers themselves also depend on fair prices; they face high production costs. higher consumer prices do not affect farmers' incomes. parliament called on the commission to act urgently and to take action across all policy areas.
in writing. - a combination of higher raw material prices, export restrictions, weather-related crop failures, higher transport costs, agricultural commodity speculation and rising demand are driving prices up. the eu will have to look at itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment. i have taken these considerations into account in my vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the decision to sentence to death a minor in yemen is appalling. yemen has clearly acted unlawfully here, because this state has signed the un convention on the rights of the child, like almost all countries in the world. article 37 of the convention provides that neither the death penalty nor life imprisonment may be imposed for offences committed by persons before the age of 18. the decision is justified by the fact that the age of the accused is not known. however, there are also death sentences for minors in other parts of the islamic world. in somalia, some sharia courts impose the death penalty on juveniles. the eu must act with greater determination and speed, together with the un, to prevent violations of international law with such serious consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they're helping us move on a lot faster anyway.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all wish that david kato, who was murdered a few weeks ago, was still alive and could be here with us, as he was last november, to talk about lesbian and gay rights and the lack of lesbian and gay rights in uganda and to plan with us what we can do to change that. we all wish he were alive, not the victim of a brutal killer. david kato, who has been a human rights defender in his country uganda for the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. i am glad that we have managed to achieve a six-party unity in this resolution and condemn the murder of david kato and call on the authorities, the political leadership that will be re-elected in uganda tomorrow, and also religious leaders to finally put an end to the incitement and violence against lesbians and gays and other minorities and to contribute to the fact that lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people can also live freely in uganda. we, as the european union, also have a responsibility to stand up for these equal rights and in this sense to promote the memory of david kato and others who have already lost their lives in the fight for equal rights. it is in this spirit that it is also necessary that our foreign secretary, mrs catherine ashton, and the new foreign service should work for these same rights, for example to use the toolkit for lesbian and gay rights in every non-european country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. farage, you are wrong. i am very much in favour of a financial transaction tax. i believe that the european union can prove itself in this area. yes, we need the european union for these very issues! and the european parliament can also prove itself here. if we all vote in favour tomorrow, it could be another solid intermediate step towards a financial transaction tax. it can give the right policy response to finally break the chains of financial slavery. the financial transaction tax is not only intended to provide incentives for the financial sector to make long-term investments with added value for the real economy, but it should also have a social component and it should also lead to a significant shift of the tax burden away from the workers. but it takes courage, even in this house, to set the tax rate. a tax rate of 0.03% or 0.05% is not sufficient. we should aim for at least or up to 0.5 per cent. the commission has also proposed a new approach to the taxation of financial transactions. i shall certainly vote for amendment no 2 tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the taxation of speculation, which in many cases does not bring any benefits to the real economy, by means of a financial transaction tax is undoubtedly the right approach. however, such a tax must not be used as an excuse to introduce something like an eu tax through the back door and establish the eu's fiscal sovereignty. unfortunately, this report goes in exactly that direction. but in my view the eu is not a state and should not become one. the taxation of capital must remain a matter for the member states. if brussels cannot come to terms with its budget, then it is time to go on the austerity line. there are already enough competences that should be regulated better at national rather than eu level. in addition, the thickness of subsidies or eu agencies offers enough savings potential. the introduction of eurobonds, which is also recommended in the report, is, in my view, clearly to be rejected. it is against all economic logic and is nothing more than another measure to make the eu a transfer union. and i refuse to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. innovative financial instruments complement the austerity policies that are currently needed and should be urgently introduced worldwide. if we therefore opt for a financial transaction tax at a rate of 0.05%, we could already have a revenue potential of almost 200 billion euro across the eu or even 650 billion worldwide. the potential to regulate and make financial markets more transparent is at least as positive. so a step in the right direction!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the extension of the fisheries agreement with mauritania is also of particular importance because it is an agreement which affects a particularly sensitive area - north africa - which is now again the focus of world politics. we know that fisheries agreements must be of economic benefit to the parties involved and must be based on ecological principles. if fisheries account for one third of the budget, as in the case of mauritania, then the economic importance of the country is clear. on the other hand, the eu fleet is also an important economic factor for europe. the environmental principle is one thing, the other is that such agreements are also intended to strengthen democracy and human rights in a country that may have similar problems to other north african countries. that is why special caution is needed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the atlantic region is of enormous importance to europe, both economically and ecologically. we know that the gulf stream has a very significant impact on the climate in europe. the extent to which the gulf stream system has changed in recent decades and what the future will bring in this regard is a matter of debate among experts. as far as the economy is concerned, it remains to be seen whether china and colombia will actually implement plans to build a rail link between the atlantic and pacific coasts of latin america. if some 20% of all chinese goods are transported by sea through the panama canal, this project will certainly have an impact on the union's latin america strategy. it should not be overlooked that the atlantic also plays a major role in the flow of refugees. for example, since the establishment of the spanish border fence in 2005, african trafficking organisations have been using the atlantic route to the canary islands. the arab unrest will have an impact on this too. in the coming months, the tens of thousands of refugees who have landed on europe's shores to date may prove to be nothing compared to what lies ahead. in this sense, it would be useful for the european union to be active in africa on the mediterranean coast, but also on the atlantic coast. because the principle should be that refugees should be accommodated as close to their homes as possible.
mr president, the living conditions for the cypriots in the northern part of cyprus, the part occupied by the army of turkey, a candidate country, are unbearable. we face, for example, ongoing violations of human rights. turkey is transferring population to this part of cyprus and is therefore responsible for a severe demographic change. the turkish cypriots are already a minority in their homeland and a lot of original villages’ names have been changed. two rallies have taken place in recent weeks. in reaction to the rally in january, the turkish cypriots were humiliated verbally by turkey, and turkey replaced its ambassador in the northern part of cyprus in order to install a governor. i therefore ask you, mr president, to take the appropriate steps before part of a european territory is lost to turkey, and to make sure that mr elcil, secretary-general of ktos, is safe in his homeland.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report speaks of great progress, but it is worrying that despite the product safety directive, despite the toy directive and despite rapex, about 60% of the products notified originate from china, and thus the majority of dangerous products come from a market that cannot be controlled by the eu. i hope that the new rapex system will help to solve this problem. the eu must take a strong stance to ensure consumer protection and health. the most shocking fact is that around a quarter of the dangerous products are children's products: dolls, water guns, children's utensils, child seats, according to rapex last week. the eu is too slow to react in such cases. the use of bisphenol in the manufacture of baby bottles has only recently been banned, but its harmful effects have been known for a year. i have also pointed this out in a question to the commission. in addition, carcinogenic products are still not prohibited by the toy directive. finally, the recall of risky products must be made more rapid and efficient and the traceability back to the business chain must be significantly improved.
the commission has already done so. we are fortunate today that the epidemic has not turned out as we sometimes feared, namely, that it has caused many deaths. every single death is tragic enough. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate. this discussion clearly reflected the situation in the eu: we have had many different national experiences. we have different health care systems. the health structure and health care are national tasks, but in the event of an epidemic or a pandemic we need cooperation at european level. we have seen that there is still a great need for learning and catching up in many areas. as has been repeatedly called for today, we must in any case regain the confidence of the people. the handling of the h1n1 situation has shown that there are shortcomings here. we need better coordination in the future.
the commission has already done so. the theme for today is 'reducing health inequalities'. that's very ambitious. in this situation, i am more concerned that we are, at european level, everywhere, contributing to the further widening of these differences, these inequalities, in the years and decades to come. it's not just about concrete steps backwards in health care, but also about what social standards we're breaking down, where we're breaking down educational trends, where education is being made more difficult. because we know that where the level of education is lower and where there are social difficulties, there is also greater poverty. and we know that poverty makes you sick. my appeal to the commission is: let us make it clear - also in the necessary consolidation of the european and national budgets - that investments in health, social and education that are not made today will create costs in the health system of the future.
i'm working hard. the eu is unable to provide the feed it needs and is dependent on third countries. only 30% of the protein-rich crops needed for animal feed are produced in the eu. the effects of dependence are being felt by our farmers, on the one hand, through enormous price fluctuations and, on the other, through the lack of traceability of imported products. i welcome the calls for increased support for protein crops in eu agriculture. europe must take a consistent and independent approach to the supply of feed. i would like to see more honesty and objectivity on the whole issue of animal feed - the handling of gmos and the prohibition of the use of animal protein require new scientific assessments. agriculture must not be subject to populism, because it is the field of work in which the eu's food supply is cared for with great commitment and utmost responsibility on a daily basis. we must provide the best possible conditions for farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the data. it is clear to me that each member state should decide for itself whether it wants to have genetic engineering in its crops - austrian farmers do not want genetic engineering in their fields. in the long term, the only way to reduce dependence is to focus agricultural policy more on regional economic cycles with sustainable production, short transport routes and high self-marketing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the draft budget for 2012 presented by mr fernandes is based on austerity and consolidation. as a parliament and representative of the citizens of europe, we must take a stand. there is a need for thrift. however, the accession of croatia, the edf and the three new financial agencies will add to the eu budget. but new expenditure does not have to - and in no case - lead to an increase in the budget. firstly, there are potential savings in all the institutions, for example in personnel and building policy or in administration. i would again urge that an economic review of the agencies be carried out and that synergies be found with the member states.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask commissioner lewandowski what the procedure for using the euro shield - that is, the amount the european institutions will take on - will actually be in 2012. will the commission make a proposal here if it is expressed that it wishes to use the umbrella? is the european parliament fully involved in the decision-making process and will this be an issue this week in connection with the extension of the shield? secondly, i would like to comment on the eur 1 500 secretarial allowance. i would ask all those who are not making full use of the secretarial allowance - and this is ultimately a question of an abuse limit - to make public how much they are saving themselves. perhaps there are even members who do not have to use the secretarial allowance at all because they are very rarely in parliament. in these cases, these resources need not be fully utilized, only those who work particularly hard should do so. everyone else, please return these funds to the taxpayers!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is an absolute testament to the poverty of our society that we still have to discuss equality between men and women. women suffer from discrimination, not only in the world of work but also in social life. the list seems endless, so here are some keywords: wage levels, working and employment conditions, precarious working conditions, pension rights, childcare, social security and various forms of violence against women. there are women who are certainly better qualified than men, yet there is discussion about equal pay for equal work - hard to believe! it is also hard to believe that women are at a greater risk of poverty than men; the main groups at risk of poverty are older women and single parents. i remember that 2010 was the year to end poverty. poverty is female. this has serious consequences for society, because poverty makes people sick and can lead to unemployment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fight for women's rights at work, in the family, in democracy, the fight for women's economic independence, the fight against male violence, against poverty for women, against discrimination against single mothers, lesbians and migrants has been going on for too long. today is the 100th anniversary of women's day. fortunately, we will be able to celebrate it in the future, the achievements we have already made, but also what is still missing. mrs morin-chartier said earlier that she did not believe in quotas ten years ago, but now she does: quotas are necessary. i thank her for it! quotas are something women really can't do without. we have male ratios in all the boards, in all the committees, in politics, in business. the male networks are working without problems. and men are not necessarily there for their performance -- some are, but by no means all -- but because they belong to these networks of men. that's why we need quotas and we need equal pay!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 100th anniversary of women's day should also be a moment of reflection and reckoning. i want to thank our women pioneers today, the women who have paved the way for so many women to participate in the political process and in the economic system. but this day must also be a reminder that what has been achieved so far must not be jeopardised. the programmes of the individual member states, which are now to be implemented under the guise of budgetary consolidation, are in many areas directed specifically against women, against women's access to education, against women's access to a livelihood, against women's access to political development. i would also like to ask the men - and there are some of them here now - to work together and in partnership with us to achieve our ambitious goals so that in future women's day can truly be a holiday.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. what women really need is a real freedom of choice in life: they need to have the certainty that none of their decisions will be less valued. the introduction of family tax splitting in all member states would be an important step to prevent the creation of a family from becoming a poverty trap. women's quotas on supervisory boards only support women who are already top earners, if at all. since norway introduced the quota for women on the boards of listed companies, these positions are cumulated by a small number of women holding several seats on different boards. in the workplace, these women are often called "gold dresses" in a derogatory way, which is not very conducive to the work environment. we must start where women are really disadvantaged: with the underpaid nurses, with part-time jobs, and with the many women who are struggling to balance family and work.
in writing. − approximately 60% of the products notified in rapex originate from china. the majority of dangerous products thus come from a market which the eu has little or no control over. i hope that the new rapex-china system will help to solve this problem. the eu must take a strong stance on consumer protection and health. the recall of risky products needs to be made more rapid and efficient and traceability in the supply chain needs to be improved. the present report goes in that direction, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report on the review of the general product safety and market surveillance directive because i am generally in favour of strengthening market surveillance in order to ensure effective consumer protection. the protection of children, the elderly and the handicapped is important to me, because the community has a special responsibility towards them. after ten years, it was time to revise the directive in a fundamental way, in particular to include new distribution channels such as online sales.
in writing. − influenza a/h1n1 caused fewer deaths in 2009 than seasonal influenza. and while the who has described h1n1 as a mild illness, it has also issued a pandemic alert of level 6, the highest level. in order to meet their obligations to the population, eu countries have therefore spent billions to combat a flu that is far from being comparable to a normal influenza in terms of its potential for causing harm. in addition, the media were used to create panic. when a pandemic that was heralded as dangerous turns out to be a storm in a teacup, future warnings are insidiously dismissed. this clearly shows that the who needs to revise the pandemic criteria. of course, in the case of a pandemic, good collaboration and joint procurement is beneficial to make a profit on price reductions, but when drug approvals are rushed through to combat pandemic visions, then we have a big problem. the role of the media and the role of the pharmaceutical companies in creating panic has not been addressed. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − in the context of the constitutional reform required by the treaty of lisbon in 2010, the austrian governing parties have introduced a kind of standardised nomination procedure for some eu posts. it is apparent that a number of influential positions are missing from the list of article 23c b-vg, according to which high-level personnel decisions must be brought to the attention of the federal president or the federal government must agree with the national council. harald wögerbauer, political director of the epp parliamentary club, is to become a new member of the bureau of the european court of auditors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on rules for fishing in the gfcm convention area. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the coordination of the activities of the different structural funds (article 5 of the treaty on european union) is a step in the right direction. the technical adaptations proposed in detail correspond to the modern requirements of responsible fishing.
in writing. - the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which would particularly affect hedge funds and similar products that provide only a very limited benefit to the real economy, is a step in the right direction. it is also undoubtedly right that europe is moving forward here, because if we wanted to involve the americans we would have had to wait for st. nimmerlein's day. however, a financial transaction tax should not be used as a pretext to introduce an eu tax through the back door. unfortunately, the report by mrs podimata goes exactly in that direction. the taxation of capital must remain the responsibility of the member states, and if brussels cannot come up with the money, then the austerity measures must be applied. there are, however, a number of areas of competence which could be better regulated at national rather than eu level. the other demands made in the report, namely the introduction of eurobonds and a carbon tax, must also be rejected. on the one hand, eurobonds are a product that goes against economic logic, and on the other hand, the thrifty euro countries are once again being unjustly asked to cash in. the eu would be transformed into a transfer union. even a carbon tax with questionable objectives would damage europe's economy, destroy jobs and thus negatively affect the majority of people. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. - the financial impact of the economic crisis has so far been mainly passed on to taxpayers. it is therefore important and right to make financial market players and speculators aware of the need to comply with the directive by means of other instruments. however, a financial transaction tax cannot be used as a pretext for imposing taxes levied directly by brussels. this would undermine the fiscal sovereignty and thus the sovereignty of the member states. the report shows a tendency in that direction, and i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it is high time that the eu took the lead and introduced a financial transaction tax at european level. if this is done as a first step, i think it will increase the likelihood of achieving the objective of introducing a global financial transaction tax. the amendment tabled by my group, which calls for the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level without further delay (for example by carrying out further studies), was adopted by a narrow majority. i now call on the commissioner responsible, mr šemeta, to take action. the resolution was adopted by a large majority of 529 votes to 127, with 18 abstentions. this is a strong signal from the european parliament which the commission cannot ignore or misinterpret for obvious reasons! i also call on president barroso to take action, to exercise the commission's right of initiative and to put a proposal before us, the legislators! the european union is a major player in the world economy, with a market share of around eur 200 billion. the commission is also proposing to make a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the future of the european union. this money should benefit both the budgetary consolidation and the eu budget as an own revenue.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report by mrs podimata on innovative finance at global and european level. until now, the financial impact of the financial and economic crisis of 2007 onwards has been borne exclusively by european taxpayers. the report examines for the first time a number of innovative instruments to help financial market players share these costs. the proposal for a financial transaction tax at global level is welcomed if possible. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the major advantage of this tax is not only the revenue potential from a sector that is so far hardly taxed, but also the parallel regulatory effect. the financial sector, which is often based on speculation, has, as is well known, become disconnected from the real economy. taxation of the financial sector could thus create incentives for longer-term investment and thus take account of the needs of the real economy.
in writing. − public health remains the highest good of mankind and should be given the highest priority by governments. however, within the eu there are still major differences in the health of the population in different countries. the effects are particularly evident in the differences in life expectancy: for men there are variations of 5.6 years, for women even 6.6 years. the reasons for this are the low level of education, the high poverty rate and the high unemployment rate. it is not surprising that the wave of redundancies caused by the economic crisis has not been beneficial to public health either. because the loss of income significantly reduces access to medical services in many countries. i did not vote for the report because it does not deal specifically enough with measures to remedy the problem.
in writing. − the report by mrs estrela deals with the reduction of health inequalities in the eu. i very much welcome this work, because even if in times of the current financial and economic crisis economic and legislative issues are the main focus, responses to issues such as health, education and social security must not be overlooked. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. − the objectives of making tax systems more sustainable, fair and transparent are pursued alongside the development of democratic systems. the taxation of internationally mobile capital is proving difficult due to globalisation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. i welcome joint initiatives to combat tax havens, as well as practices that intensify international dialogue between countries. responsible taxation must have a lasting positive impact on the development of these countries!
in writing. - i believe that there is an urgent need to develop an efficient tax system for developing countries. the approaches adopted in this report are absolutely useful in this respect. in particular, when implementing the new tax systems, which will be supported by the eu, care must be taken to ensure that the economic partnership agreements between the eu and developing countries promote these projects and do not counteract them. the eu's investment policy must also create an economically friendly environment for both domestic and foreign investors. the result of all these measures should be a fundamental improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the population, which is currently cut off from the income from the sale of raw materials and is thus often forced to migrate. i voted in favour of the report because it covers many aspects in a very comprehensive way.
in writing. − there is a need for concrete measures to better promote the principles of good tax practice, such as transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition. the main objective is to improve the synergy between taxation and development policy. the report goes in that direction, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have agreed to mrs joly's report. the creation of a functioning tax system is the foundation of any responsible democracy. the report calls for developing countries to be assisted in setting up such structures to provide sustainable support for the self-responsibility of these countries. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of development cooperation. the report also briefly touches on the problem of so-called 'eagle funds', which i believe should be completely banned, because intergovernmental development aid must not become the plaything of global financial players.
in writing. − the european parliament calls on the european commission to be more active in representing the interests of european farmers and consumers in international trade negotiations. the highest quality and social standards in agricultural production and the best quality of food for the population these standards of eu agriculture must not be wiped off the table lightly with a multitude of economic agreements. i am firmly in favour of further opening up of the market for agricultural imports only if it is ensured that the competitiveness of european agriculture is maintained. the doha round must not allow any further concessions in the agricultural sector. i welcome the clear demands made in this report.
in writing. − although food prices have been rising for some time now and we are facing a price explosion for some agricultural products due to weather caprices, rising fuel prices and agricultural speculation , store prices are out of proportion to what small farmers get for their hard work. the eu's food industry is a major player in the world market, and it is difficult for an eu producer to compete without it, given the high standards we have in social, quality, animal welfare and the environment - standards which we cannot or do not want to control when importing food. in order to halt the disappearance of rural areas and the death of farmers, which has already put the self-sufficiency of the eu member states in serious danger, it is high time that agricultural subsidies were no longer granted to agricultural corporations but to those who really need the money to survive, namely small farmers. if this is not possible under eu centralism, the only thing left is the renationalisation of agricultural subsidies. the report lacks a clear commitment to small and mediumsized farmers, who often have to work for pocket money. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report by mr papastamkos on eu agriculture and international trade. as an austrian, i am particularly well aware of the problems facing our farmers. european agriculture is a cornerstone of the union, of our common culture and of our common habitat. the rapporteur calls on the commission to be an aggressive and active advocate of the eu's agricultural interests. the eu is the world's leading importer of agricultural products. it is essential to ensure that imported products meet the high quality standards of eu-produced agricultural products.
in writing. − the eu is heavily dependent on imported feed in the animal sector, as it does not produce the feed it needs. seventy percent of the protein-rich plants needed for animal feed are imported from brazil, argentina, and the united states. the report on this protein deficit clearly addresses this problem and calls for the highest standards in feedingstuffs. compliance with quality, environmental and social standards must also apply to imported goods. in addition, raw materials suitable for feed production must be used more efficiently. it is important to reduce the enormous dependence on third countries, which causes price fluctuations and a lack of traceability of production conditions. this can only be achieved if we take back control of protein crop production in the eu, as the report suggests. i am, however, clearly against the use of genetic engineering in crop production.
in writing. − protein crops are an important part of the animal feed industry and therefore an important economic factor. in europe, however, the cultivation of protein crops is treated almost as a step-mother's business. in the last ten years, there has been a decline of up to 30%, with the sole exception of soybeans, where the decline is only 12%. only 3% of the eu's total arable land is used for protein crops. this, as studies show, not only has a significant economic disadvantage, as it leads to an import quota of 80 per cent, but also disadvantages in the field of agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment. the research sector is also suffering from the low demand for protein-producing plant seeds. the downward spiral has already started here. i did not vote for the report because i feared that it would prevent the cultivation of traditional seeds.
in writing. the report calls for the use of genetically modified organisms and animal flour. in general, the use of animal protein in animal feed (remember the bse scandal) should only be allowed if all the scientific evidence and controls are in place to rule out any adverse effects. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the protein deficit in the eu yesterday because i believe that the problem of the protein gap cannot be solved by introducing genetic engineering imports into the eu. the commission has already decided to grant a loan of ecu 1 million to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) for the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2000. the original intention of the report to take measures to increase the domestic production of protein crops in order to counteract the decline in protein production in the eu was distorted. the genetic engineering lobby has apparently succeeded in creating a positive mood for imports of genetic engineering containing protein, which has been incorporated into the report by amendments which unfortunately were adopted by the majority in the plenary. the rapporteur himself has had to vote against his report in the end. as a spö politician, i, like my colleagues in the eu parliament, advocate zero tolerance for genetically modified organisms.
in writing. - what women really need is real freedom of choice in life: they need to be sure that none of their decisions is less valued. the introduction of family tax splitting in all member states would be an important step to prevent the creation of a family from becoming a poverty trap. but women's quotas are the wrong way. we must start where women are really disadvantaged: with the underpaid nurses, with part-time jobs, and with the many women who are struggling to balance family and work. i am not aware of any such thing in this report, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - i have approved the report by mrs nedelcheva on equality between women and men in the european union. gender equality and equal treatment is a fundamental requirement of the eu. however, ongoing public debates on women's shares in the economy, the persistence of severe pay gaps and the multiple disadvantages faced by women in the workplace clearly show that there is still a long way to go to achieve gender equality. the member states are invited to see the crisis as an opportunity to re-think their policies and to step up their efforts on this important issue.
in writing. - women's poverty is a tragic problem, especially in developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on women's poverty in the european union. the commission's 2010 annual report on equality between women and men shows that poverty is one of the areas where gender differences are most pronounced. the economic, financial and social crisis has led to a 'feminization of poverty'. the current budget cuts and restructuring of the public sector are putting jobs in which women predominate at risk. at the same time, the measures promoted by governments to combat the crisis are primarily aimed at the male-dominated sectors of the economy. the analysis of the phenomenon of the 'feminization of poverty' requested by the rapporteur is therefore urgently needed in order to take appropriate countermeasures.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much, especially for the fairness of announcing the list of speakers in advance. the proposals for fiscal union include a uniform retirement age and harmonization of vat rates and wage policy. this is another step towards economic governance and a massive intervention in the tax sovereignty of the member states. what is worse is that the european parliament will have no say on these issues and that article 136 of the lisbon treaty could be invoked, and merkel and sarkozy will thus probably push through their proposals despite the resistance in other eurozone countries. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. in an emergency, the life-saving device is finally deployed. profits are privatized, losses are socialized and transferred to the entire eurozone. president barroso, you said that growth must be distributed more equitably. i ask you, what about the liabilities? the bailout will lead to an even more unequal distribution of burdens, social problems will arise and the wealth of the net contributors will be arbitrarily jeopardised.
the commission has already done so. a turkish proverb says: "a man's actions are his mirror, words don't mean much". but it is precisely by beautiful empty words that the pro-turkey people have been deceived. the 2010 progress report is in fact a kind of deficiency report and it proves that turkey is everything but certainly not european. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of journalists are respected and that the rights of journalists are protected. nor has there been any change in the discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities such as the kurds and christians. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. the expropriation of the mor gabriel monastery is further evidence of this. the turkish government has been pushing for islamisation against all the odds. we know that. the latest poll shows how turks really see the eu, with support for eu membership but the greatest distrust of europeans. we should stop the accession negotiations as soon as possible!
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to ask a question, but it's a little late. mr. cashman, as you saw, has already left the room. i have some important questions for mr cashman and would ask that if a member takes the opportunity to put a question on the blue card procedure, he be allowed to speak immediately. otherwise, the member to whom the question is addressed may leave the chamber, as we have just seen. but i may still have the opportunity to speak after the catch-the-eye procedure, and i thank you in advance for that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, mr commissioner, i would also like to thank our colleague charles tannock for a very good and well-balanced report and i am glad we found consensus here in regretting the decoupling of the candidate status for montenegro from opening the negotiations. as previous speakers have said, i would also like montenegro to move forward with negotiations and i hope the delay will not be too long. i am happy also to hear from the hungarian presidency that they are strong supporters in the enlargement process. so i hope there will be progress this year, at the latest, following the progress report. montenegro has achieved a lot in the past and in recent years, but there are still quite a few areas of concern. i would like to mention three: fighting corruption, discrimination and ecological issues. in the fight against corruption and organised crime, i am glad that in this report we also demand from the state authorities that they refrain from pressurising ngos and civil society organisations that investigate corruption and organised crime. they should be free to do their work and support the state in removing corruption and organised crime. the second aspect is anti-discrimination. there are still lots of groups where, despite good legislation, anti-discrimination is not working: roma, ashkaeli and egyptians, lgbt people; we should also mention gender equality on international women’s day. finally, on ecological issues, montenegro defines itself in its constitution as an ecological state, which is great. the problem is, despite the beautiful coast and mountains, if good transparent progress is not made by having environmental assessments, then this beautiful countryside is in danger of being destroyed. so, i hope that this country will move forward, involve civil society and have transparent processes in its ecological areas, especially hydro-electric power plants.
i have to say, madam president, it was expected that with the visa liberalisation for serbia, montenegro and macedonia, tourists and business people would make greater use of this possibility; but the majority of the refugees came from poverty. in this context, information campaigns on the ground are undoubtedly important to make it clear that a visitor visa cannot be equated with asylum or a job in the eu. the fact that the eu had to apply pressure to close down so-called travel agencies specialising in permanent departures to the eu shows the lack of awareness of the problem. the extent to which the planned early warning systems for mass movement in connection with the roma problem will take effect remains to be seen. after all, many people still seem to be looking for a future not in their home countries in the balkans, such as montenegro, but using the newfound freedom of travel to enter the eu illegally. but there is no right to immigration into europe's social systems. in any case, it will be important for montenegro to make further efforts to achieve eu standards in the areas of justice, anti-corruption and minority protection in order to develop a european perspective.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group has visited roma settlements in europe on several occasions and we have seen horrendous conditions. it is hard to imagine the conditions that prevail in some european capitals! it's a vicious circle that can hardly be broken. both commissioners thankfully made special mention of poverty. i believe that the fight for roma is also a fight against poverty, and not only among roma because we also have to make sure that there is no new division because the non-roma poor criticize that the roma are now suddenly getting a lot of money or a lot of attention , but it must be a common fight, in addition, of course, against any kind of discrimination. the local level is also important. because very often we see that at the community level, the county level, a lot is done, but unfortunately not always with the support of the national government. we must find a way of using european funds at local level. that is why we have - i shall come to that in a moment - drawn up an alternative resolution, particularly on the suggestion of mr enci, who will be speaking on this subject in due course, in order to draw particular attention to this problem. i hope the commission will have a good roma strategy. both commissioners have said it very well: it is a monitoring, monitoring process - a work in progress, as they said. we must examine what is really happening with the funds, because we have been watching for too long as if very little had been done - i am not saying nothing, but too little has been done - and the funds have not been used optimally either. we wish the hungarian presidency every success! we will support you fully on this issue so that we can come to a new strategy here and so that you can say this is one of your successes during your presidency. you have our support! i would like to conclude by thanking mrs járóka for her very good report and, because we want to support her report, we will also withdraw our alternative resolution. we just wanted to raise awareness of the problem in terms of local authorities and communities. but we want to support their report together as a clear statement by the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, while the majority of the eu population is ageing rapidly, the roma population is growing rapidly. in hungary, roma currently make up between 6% and 8% of the population, and by 2050 roma will make up more than 50% of the labour force. the eu has also been a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has been a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. the present report does address some problems, but it is one-sided. integration is not a one-way street. the roma must also contribute, by sending their children to school and integrating into the labour market. and of course the situation of women in roman societies, which are often characterized by archaic structures, is particularly dramatic. the distance from education and thus exclusion from the labour market which will only increase if we do not act now will exacerbate the problems of integration due to demographic change.
i have to say, madam president, i must admit that i can quite follow your reasoning in terms of the passage of time. i would ask you to bear in mind that those who wish to ask questions are not responsible for the fact that we are so late. i have a particular problem with the fact that i have put a question to the council on a matter which is now being dealt with as point 2, namely a similar question, and the question time with the council has now been cancelled without a replacement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i have a question for mr reul. this morning we celebrated the 100th anniversary of international women's day. in this context i would like to ask you: what opportunities do you see for women in the industrial policy of the future? what are the opportunities for women in industry? i think we need them urgently. and in what skill areas are women in industry best placed?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you very much for your initiative! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can also focus on investment protection agreements, for example, because they allow long-term contracts to be concluded which also provide investment protection for the return on investment of new mines which we urgently need. the commission has therefore concluded that the aid granted to the beneficiaries is compatible with the internal market. we can also look at the situation with the singapore issues in the context of the wto successor conference to the doha round. we have already put together a good package of measures in singapore, and this too should be pursued, perhaps even in parallel with the current doha negotiations. the question of whether there is an infringement of the anti-dumping rules must be examined by looking at the price at which the chinese industry partly buys the raw materials for processing and the surcharge which the european industry has to pay. that's a work in progress. it is not just rare earths that are at stake, but also, for example, magnesite, which is the most important raw material for refractory products, without which, for example, steel, glass, cement and other raw materials cannot be produced. we should also focus on what substitution products are possible in the future and perhaps design our own programme for research into substitution products accordingly. i also welcome commissioner hedegaard's proposal for a carbon footprint levy, which would, for example, charge an additional vat surcharge for products produced with high co2 emissions and transported over long distances.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we look at the price movements in the energy market over the last few weeks, it is not just the political risks in many countries around the world, but also the financial economy and many other influential factors that make a secure strategy for the future impossible. we must therefore divide the energy pie into as many pieces as possible, and gas will play a very important role in this in the future. the efficient use of gas must of course be the focus. we need more efficiency not only in production but also in consumption. and we must ensure that the taxes on co2 are ultimately borne by the consumer and not by the manufacturing industry, otherwise there will be a distortion of international competition. it is not for us to make a difference whether the gas is used outside europe and produces co2 or whether it is produced within europe. europe is the region with the highest purchasing power in the world. if we import products with a high carbon content or ship them within europe, this must not affect our competitiveness. we also have to think about what pipelines mean for the future. a pipeline is like a wedding: both partners are bound to it for a long time if a win-win situation is to be created.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lady ashton, you have repeatedly received criticism from this circle. i would like to take this opportunity to say clearly: the european union, and particularly you and your staff, have acted quickly, well and efficiently throughout the crisis. it has also brought europe a step closer to the role we envision for ourselves as co-creators of a global world. it is right and important to see that the conditions in each country are specific, especially in libya. the european union has taken a timely political stand against genocide and for civil society. here, rightly, together with nato, the un and others, the pressure on the gaddafi regime has been increased. of course, military action cannot be excluded if it is carried out within the framework of international agreements. humanitarian aid - that is, food, medicine, shelter - must also be provided for people who have to flee the war zone. but we also have to think about what happens on day one after gaddafi. i would like to refer once again to the parliamentary assembly in rome, which has proposed some very important positive steps: firstly, personal security for the citizens, secondly, political security - which means also close cooperation with the transitional government - and thirdly, economic security. we must do everything we can to ensure that the economies of these countries return to normal and that people find work.
in the form of refugee boats, falling stock prices and price shocks at petrol stations, the eu naively expected the latter. with the rise in crude oil prices combined with a strong euro and the ecb interest rate hike, there is little hope of a decline in heating oil prices. this is a further reminder of our dependence on oil supplies and the need to pursue alternatives. with the rebels' demand for a no-fly zone, we are faced with a dilemma. this is because the un must approve this direct interference in the sovereignty of a state and, as a result, the air defences must be destroyed, as experts warn. the eu countries must not only think about this, but also about the consequences of an open civil war. and what is the eu's position if gaddafi should still turn the tables? it is clear that a dictator is not intimidated by mere gestures of intimidation. gaddafi has shown how to ride a sled with the west and the rest of the dictators are watching closely. the eu must now demonstrate its foreign policy strength and take clear steps towards de-escalation and democratisation in libya.
in writing. − the expenditure ceiling of the multiannual financial framework of the budget of the european union for 2012 has been raised again. the european union must also save money, especially at a time when the people are tightening their belts. there is plenty of potential for savings, from the abandonment of a parliament building, to reducing the eu agency jungle, to improving the fight against fraud in the funding programmes. the european union has only postponed some projects in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, but it has not really made any savings, which it is selling as a major savings measure. such an approach is more than unfair to the european citizen, and it is equally unfair to justify all the additional costs now with increased requirements under the lisbon treaty. i have voted against the budget report for these reasons.
in writing. − the report includes an increase in the expenditure ceiling of the multiannual financial framework of the european union budget for 2012. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, citizens in the member states were encouraged to adopt austerity measures and thus bear the brunt of the impact of the crisis. the eu should also reduce its spending; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary procedure other specific plans are summarised under the headings economy and consolidation. many citizens in europe, as well as their national governments, are being forced to save and restrict spending under the impact of the financial and economic crisis. the european parliament's role as a model in its 2012 budget proposal is more than justified. in 2012, the eu will face new and unavoidable expenditure. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for the development of vocational training (evt) in the field of vocational training. to stop the automatic process of equating higher budgetary requirements with an increase in the budget, the key is to identify potential savings in the eu budget. this includes, for example, a business analysis of the eu agencies and an assessment of the staff and buildings policies of the eu institutions.
in writing. - five european member states are bordered by the atlantic ocean. the atlantic, in particular, is far from being the only country to benefit from this geographical situation, since it plays a significant role in the flow of refugees, which is now threatening to increase due to the crises in the north african countries. because smugglers have been using the atlantic route all too happily since the spanish border fence was erected in 2005. in order to prevent a flood of mainly economic refugees, the eu would be well advised to rapidly develop an effective atlantic strategy also in the aspect described, even if the other two atlantic coastal countries, great britain and ireland, will be little or not affected. but since the resolution barely touches on it, i abstained.
in writing. the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations is a welcome example of the importance of the european union's external relations. but what else could possibly come out of it, given the circumstances? turkey is not a european country - geographically, culturally or historically - and for these reasons it has a different approach to many issues. in view of these circumstances, it is always surprising to me how such a politically correct and positive resolution can be written on this subject. the truth must not be found anywhere, and clear words should be avoided wherever possible. it is time to give turkey a new round of pure wine. we must make it clear to the turks that they are our friends and partners in many areas, but that eu membership is not possible. reasonable forces in turkey have also long since realized that eu membership is not the most desirable goal. turkey occupies an important strategic position in the middle east, owing to its location and its many links with the turkic peoples of the caucasus and the arabs. the eu should take this into account and recognise turkey as an important strategic partner beyond its borders.
in writing. - i agreed to the very negative 2010 progress report on turkey. the report found that turkey has made little progress in its reform process and in meeting the eu accession criteria over the past five years. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment. as a member of the cyprus high level contact group, i know that this is also true of the unresolved cyprus problem.
in writing. − respect for human rights is often at odds with other state interests (e.g. military or economic) which are not always easily bridged. the us and the eu also sometimes exceed this narrow threshold, as evidenced by interference with civil liberties and data protection law in the context of counter-terrorism. the eu must therefore strengthen its commitment to upholding human rights both inside and outside the union. i am thinking in particular of the protection of christian minorities abroad, particularly in countries with an islamic character and in asia. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the report clearly shows that montenegro has made considerable progress in domestic reforms since its independence in 2006. but we cannot ignore the fact that there are still significant problems with corruption and organised crime, with freedom of expression and with discrimination. however, the report also explains that the government of montenegro is committed to effectively tackling these problem areas and has put in place the right and appropriate packages of measures.
in writing. - of course, the roma and sinti live by the politically correct term, although some members of these ethnic groups take this as an insult and advocate the term gypsy, sometimes in miserable circumstances. it should not be overlooked that the lack of progress in improving living conditions is also linked to the traditions of these groups, which they still hold on to. in typical good-manner, attempts have been made over the years to socialize them, and they all fail because they are not accepted by the majority of this nomadic people. the european union has set aside 12 billion euros for the integration of minorities by 2013, and it is already foreseeable that most of the money will be wasted on the roma and sinti. not only the clan structure, but also the lack of governmental intervention rights prevent the vicious circle from ever being broken. the strategy now being considered is not only unlikely to make any real change, it could even become a gateway in some areas, such as 'non-discrimination'. the report also lacks the distinction that there is no right of access to social systems, which is why i reject it in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. − while the majority of the eu population is ageing rapidly, the roma population is growing rapidly. in hungary, the roma currently make up about 6-8% of the population, and by 2050 the roma share of the labour force will exceed 50%! the eu has also been a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. the situation of women in the often archaic roman societies is particularly dramatic, with their lack of education and thus their exclusion from the labour market being all the greater. the present report addresses some of these problems, but it is one-sided: integration is not a one-way street. the roma must play their part, send their children to school, integrate better into the labour market and prevent criminal tendencies. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − to remain competitive in the face of global economic change, the key economic sector of industry must not be neglected. sustainability and decent working conditions should be promoted and demanded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. sustainability and growth are two keywords that are often heard, especially in industrial policy, the implementation of which is highly questionable, especially because of the lack of resources. i abstain because i believe that the measures proposed will be far from sufficient to secure europe's place as the world leader in the industrial sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that an integrated industrial policy for europe is essential, particularly in the face of the new challenges posed by globalisation, and that further development of industrial policy is therefore necessary. industrial policy is seen as a driver of sustainable employment and social prosperity. a job in industry creates at least two more jobs. europe's position in industrial policy is increasingly being challenged by the increasing industrialisation in emerging countries and the strengthening of our biggest competitors such as the us and china . so we have to evolve. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european industry. the report also provides for an integrated industrial policy to serve as a basis for environmental, competition and trade policies to improve resource efficiency. in addition, the report stresses the importance of a constructive partnership with workers and trade union organisations. the need to improve coordination between the eu and the member states was also stressed. i consider these measures to be absolutely necessary. this report ensures that the development of industrial policy is approached with the necessary ambition and prudence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is notoriously doubtful whether iran's nuclear programme is really for peaceful purposes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. it is crucial to ensure the civilian use of nuclear energy by iran in the eyes of the international community. in view of the middle east policy, it is up to ahmadinejad to finally make it clear that iran does not pose a threat to israel and also recognizes israel's right to exist within the boundaries of international law. i believe that disarmament and the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone should be an important objective of eu policy in the middle east in order to guarantee peace and security in the region. iran is, of course, a major player in the middle east. in this context, i am pleased to see that mr belder's very comprehensive report shows that there is constructive cooperation with the eu on the afghan question in order to increase security and stability in that region. it is the only way to deprive radical islam, or islamism, which is increasingly doing its damage in europe, of its breeding ground.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the green revolution and the recent protests clearly show that there is a great potential for civil society in iran. this must be supported, because only in this way can a democratic opening develop. unfortunately, sanctions often hit precisely this young, active civil society. for example, the toefl test in iran has been suspended. however, this test is a prerequisite for study at most anglo-american universities. the victims of this suspension are therefore internationally minded students. the report uncritically proposes further sanctions, such as restricting the transfer of technology for mobile phone and communication networks. but it is precisely these rapid communication and information technologies that are needed for the spread of pluralistic ideas. finally, the laughing third countries are china, russia and india, which continue to trade, secure and export raw materials and, unfortunately, will not abide by these sanctions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. human rights, freedom, equality are too important to us all to allow them to be played with, to be weighed against power interests and perhaps commercial interests to override these very important values. they require our full commitment and it is incredibly important that in human rights matters the international community responds quickly, purposefully and effectively. the human rights council is on the right track here. we have seen that the mission in tunisia made sense, the mission in egypt made sense. the fact that libya lost its seat on the human rights council was a correct and important sign to show that it cannot be done. but it's also the case that missions, resolutions and maybe things that happen like that are brought to the ground. you are right, madam high commissioner, it is not enough to decide something, you must also make sure that things are implemented. the european union could make a much greater contribution here than it is doing at present. but it is also necessary for the united nations to accept that the situation of the european union after the treaty of lisbon is different from what it was before. i would ask you, commissioner, to ensure that in particular those who have always called themselves our friends and whom we also call our friends and whom we respect very much - especially in the field of trade policy - also remember in future that they are our friends and do not abandon the european union as they did in the september vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let's be honest, the non-war - because we can't talk about peace in the middle east - has been based on dictators and authoritarian regimes keeping their own people in check and signing a non-aggression pact with israel, and israel has been based on that. as we have seen, such supports and pillars are very fragile and can collapse suddenly. now they've collapsed! i am glad that israel has not interfered in the internal developments of the arab world. but not interfering is not enough! we must, as mr pöttering has said, seize the opportunity and make the best of it. israel must seize the opportunity to make a lasting peace with democracies now - a peace that does not rest on the shoulders of a few dictators, but is really based on the will of the people to make peace. the development of settlements is not only a thorn in the side of the community but also a hindrance. and if the deputy foreign minister, who has already been quoted, said in the discussion we had in brussels that we are not going to take any new territory from the palestinians without any need for it, then that is both ridiculous and cynical! because the settlement development must be stopped! and i am very sad that the americans here have vetoed it because they have shown that they are not really interested in the peace process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we must recognize the elections and the outcome of the elections as a democratic step. this does not mean that we have to accept every policy that is implemented as a result of the elections. but we must not repeat the mistake of deciding who is the good and who is the bad winner of elections, but we must recognize democratic development. and lastly, because we are all united in this, i hope that you will also step up your efforts to free mr. shalith so that this problem can be solved. the fact is that just as settlement development is an obstacle to genuine talks, so too is the capture of mr shalith an obstacle. i hope that we can both address the issues in a way that we can finally come to reasonable, constructive peace talks in the middle east!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr tannock referred to the iranian ships that passed through the suez canal. my question to catherine ashton, the high representative, is this: is it certain that under international law egypt had no way of refusing passage to the ships - whether it wanted to or not? i just wanted to ask if this is based on international law or if there's some political connection?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ireland is a tragic historical lesson. firstly, this country has always been hailed as the model country and the model for new members of the union, despite the fact that it allowed and promoted extremely wrong policies which led to the huge bubbles in the real estate sector, the independence of the banking sector and the failure to take care in the tax area to avoid dumping. you, commissioner, have the same nationality as i do. we know how many austrian writers, for example, suddenly discovered that they were irish because they had virtually no tax to pay there. what were the supposedly pro-european forces doing then? i didn't say anything. they said, "that's a good example". and now it's all gone to shit. now, this bubble has turned out to be what many have always said it was. and again we have a situation where - not just from my point of view - anti-european sentiment is being fuelled by allowing the wrong policies to be pursued again, in this case by imposing this massive package on the irish. you say, commissioner, that the member state has committed itself here. but we know from the history of world bank and imf programmes - and it's not that different from what we're seeing in ireland now - that in the end these countries are left with nothing. if you sit back and say, 'it's a pity the irish didn't reject the lisbon treaty the second time,' you might come to a very different point of view. we can see that we are dealing with a european construct that could be compared to a vehicle made up of a porsche in front and a bicycle in the back. it doesn't add up. you're much more demanding! if we are to prevent this europe from breaking apart, we really need something like a constitution for europe. then we need clear benchmarks that actually apply to everyone. we need a business government. this pattern of 'forward, backward, sideways' will not work and will end in disaster rather than in what you, commissioner, i and the vast majority of this house are striving for, namely a peaceful, functioning and also united europe.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. has the level of support for membership of the european union declined? how has the general feeling towards the eu developed? portugal does indeed have parallels with ireland: first the great euphoria in the 1970s with the prospect of accession, then the corresponding funds. do you see similar property bubbles in portugal to those in ireland?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposals now before us are putting a heavy backpack on the shoulders of those who are already struggling and telling them to run faster. how do you want to do this? the proposals for decentralized wage bargaining are unfair, they are unimaginative and they are a diversionary manoeuvre because it is so difficult to tax wealth and financial speculation and because the heads of government do not want to succeed in setting up a real macroeconomic coordination. we have already set a completely different standard in parliament this week with our vote on the financial transaction tax. i would like to recall the principle of the social market economy as laid down in the treaty of lisbon. i imagine the social market economy to be quite different, namely that there are no decentralised wage negotiations, but the opposite is the case. decentralised wage bargaining systems are contrary to solidarity wage policies and lead to a widening of the gap between rich and poor rather than reducing it. that means the opposite should be done. i therefore expressly repeat what my colleague jutta steinruck has said, and we cannot repeat it often enough: put more money where the crisis was really caused, and ask those who caused the crisis to ask more for money and also to take legislative action to solve these problems.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. solidarity is the right word to start with. when disasters occur - whether man-made or natural - we in europe must stand together. this is central to the work of european unification! the second keyword is speed. it's about helping quickly, because quick help is usually effective help. thirdly, i must point out that the member states are, of course, primarily responsible for protecting their populations against such disasters wherever possible. we must examine how we can use european resources and the funds at our disposal more efficiently and effectively. i would also point out that many member states are calling for european funds to hide the fact that they are not taking enough action themselves. what can we do at union level? we have two major expenditure items: the regional fund, which is the responsibility of commissioner hahn, and the agricultural fund, where we could make better use of the money we already have. prevention is key, i.e. by proper spatial planning, many disasters can be prevented, especially floods. we already have a flood policy and it has become clear that we can actually achieve a lot with the resources we have if we take the right measures such as mapping, risk assessments and, as a third measure, the preparation of action plans. i would like the commission to deal with the areas of drought and water scarcity in particular, in addition to the action plan it has drawn up. we are still short of an instrument like the flood directive, and we could do a lot here. as for the catalogue of measures itself, i have to say that mainstreaming is certainly central here, so we are trying to take these aspects into account in other policy areas. the commission also has to ensure that member states draw up risk maps for all areas under the supervision of the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the concept of disaster prevention is of course very much in demand among our hungarian friends, because a lot of things went wrong in hungary in dealing with the toxic sludge disaster last october. the commission's report found a clear failure on the part of the local authorities: failure to classify the dangerous broths and major errors in the construction measures at the basin. the commission also found that the european waste catalogue the mining waste directives had not been transposed into hungarian law. it is therefore important that the individual countries make it compulsory to incorporate european standards into their legal norms. in addition to disaster prevention, it is of course important to apply these european standards properly and, in addition, to exchange best practice and help with self-help. it is important and right that in the year of volunteering countries should take a look at those countries which have voluntary firefighting systems, rescue services, etc. throughout the country.
the commission has already done so. we know what factors have led to an increase in disasters in recent years, we know about climate change, about the explosive industrialization in the third world, about the growing world population and all that. it is also true that many disasters are caused by human error, and it must be said that the principle of causation must be applied first. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact is, however, that european solidarity is of course needed where disasters are really caused by force majeure, where natural disasters are really taking place. and here, too, there is no question of european solidarity in the field of prevention - for example, in the field of avalanche protection structures, flood control structures, mapping and monitoring systems. in addition, we should really have something like a european 'disaster fire brigade' which can be deployed when help is needed very quickly to prevent the worst.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the commission - which i do not often do - for putting safety very consistently at the forefront, even against the protests of some airlines who have tried to downplay the problem because of the economic impact when such a problem arises. but safety must remain the guiding principle for the future. but this requires some improvements which we can make at european level. what is the situation, for example, with regard to improving common measurement systems? is there a strategy for measuring such stresses and how to allocate tasks in such a way that it is possible to arrive at more reliable statements more quickly? i know that this is extremely difficult, particularly because of the weather conditions, but i would like to know whether there is any progress in coordination here, so that at least the same criteria are used for measurement and evaluation. overall, this volcanic ash crisis has shown how vulnerable our highly sophisticated aviation system is, and each and every one of us has noticed this at airports. in normal operation, two or three delays will have a rat's tail of consequences, so that even normal operation becomes increasingly difficult, let alone if external weather events or something like a volcanic ash crisis are added; then it becomes completely confusing! we do not have a fault-tolerant system here and there must be improvements in this area, because a system is only as good as it can be in response to fault-tolerant situations. it has also been shown that we are facing a major shortcoming, namely the lack of cooperation between the modes of transport, rail, road and air transport as a whole. the fact that we do not have sufficient resources has also made it difficult to take adequate compensatory measures on the ground. on the subject of the 'single sky', the need for which has been demonstrated here, because coordinated action would have been better in any case: as long as each member state is convinced that it and only it is capable of controlling its own airspace really efficiently and that all the others are not able to do so at all - and i am speaking here of our airspace in central europe - we will not make any progress. with these egos we are doing harm to european cooperation, but ultimately also to the european idea. we must be clear about this!
the commission has already done so. i am not a member of the transport committee either, but i think it is important for all of us to learn from the ash crisis. as we have said today, 'safety first' must be a concept that is more important than the solution. we need the expansion of the railways and we need the expansion of a european rail network. but we also need a global coordination of passenger and freight transport, whether by air, rail or road, in the event of disasters such as earthquakes, ash clouds, floods and the like. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. national information points to which people of all generations can turn. because i see a certain generational injustice in air transport right now. it is almost impossible to get information without the internet. we should also work together in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr daul has pointed out the reality. yes, it is a reality that the hungarian government or the hungarian parliament has changed the law. and that is a good thing, because i remember the debate when it was said here that - including you, mr daul - there was nothing to change, that everything was fine. and suddenly it had to be changed. (applause from the left) secondly, the reality is - and you can read this - that both the osce's media representative and the council of europe representative say that these changes are insufficient. this is the reality, mr daul! this is the reality! (applause from the left) we in the group chaired by me discussed the law and the amendments last night and we have come to the conclusion - as have the osce and the council of europe - that these amendments are insufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you do, it's your business! (applause from the left) freedom of the press is something that is an integral part of democracy. we want democracy and we want freedom of the media and that is why we ask you to vote accordingly today. we know that there are a number of colleagues in your group who share our views. we must fight for media freedom in hungary and elsewhere! (applause from the left)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. although hungary and the eu commission have reached agreement on the points raised by the commission, i join my colleagues in calling for a full examination of the text of the law. the improvements achieved by the commission are remarkably selective and have largely ignored the concerns raised by parliament and various international organisations such as the osce and the council of europe. the concern about the appointment, composition and powers of the media authority is more than understandable. freedom of the press is too important an element of our democracy to be subject to legally restrictive interpretations of this fundamental right.
in writing. - gaddafi is using ever more powerful weapons (such as bombing rebels) in the fight to maintain his power and is not afraid of a high blood toll. the eu parliament is calling for a no-fly zone to stop gaddafi's bombers from attacking civilians, recognition of the transitional council and the democracy movement as the legitimate representatives of the libyan people and the severance of all relations with gaddafi. whether the heads of state or government will heed this call remains to be seen. i abstained because of the possibility of resettling and dividing up migrants in europe.
in writing. - point 15: with regard to article 80 tfeu, it must be noted that i, like the austrian federal government, am committed to solidarity on a voluntary basis. it should be left to the member states to decide, in accordance with their respective capacities, how far this solidarity can go.
in writing. - i voted for the joint resolution. as a neighbour and committed to the principles of international law, which include the right of peoples to self-determination, it is essential to help the people of north africa. the approach should nevertheless be chosen with caution: the request of the libyan provisional national transitional council to refrain from direct military intervention must be respected, also in order to avoid further worsening of the humanitarian situation of the civilian population.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report by mr belder on the eu's approach to iran. i share the concerns of the majority of the european people about the iranian nuclear programme and the iranian regime's assurances that it will be used for purely civilian purposes. nevertheless, i believe that the european union should use only sustainable, green and secure sources of energy in its cooperation with third countries in the energy sector, in line with its climate protection objectives. i also support the view of my colleague that the eu should develop a broader strategy towards iran, one that goes beyond the nuclear dossier and also covers the human rights situation and other important issues.
in writing. − the unrest in the maghreb is a clear reminder that defending human rights is not easy and often clashes with economic and/or military interests. the european union has also taken steps in the name of the fight against terrorism which are incompatible with human rights. the eu must also take a stand on this issue for example in the case of illegal cia flights. despite these failures, it is important that the eu remains committed to the protection of human rights. the european union must be particularly concerned about the protection of minority rights, especially the improvement of the situation of christians and other religious minorities in islamic countries, where the former are particularly exposed to massive persecution and are the main victims of religious violence. i voted in favour of this.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the priorities of the 16th session of the united nations human rights council. i share the view that the human rights council could be invaluable as a kind of 'early warning' and precautionary mechanism and i expect the ead to engage in the body accordingly. as regards the review of the human rights council, i am of course also in favour of the call for a comprehensive, but above all transparent, process.
mr president, commissioner hahn, you are very well aware of the problems we face. culture and identity must also be clearly placed at the centre of attention at the global level. karl habsburg just explained to us this week how important it is for the search for identity that this cultural heritage is not only available to the uighurs, but is a global asset. china should show some signs of acceptance. for example, we recently concluded an agreement with the city of wenzhou to allow direct investment in dollars in the future. i see an opportunity here for this region to be brought into the spotlight and for equal rights to be given in the different cities and regions of china. international relations in particular can be of great help here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to come right back to the journalist's defense. i think it's very commendable what happened there. are you aware, mr. buzek, that there are going to be a dozen more cases? will you join the recommendation we would like to make from the martin list that these colleagues resign before they are exposed in the media to prevent further damage to the great european peace project? i therefore ask you to take this request into account in the bureau and to inform the political groups.
in writing. − the brok/gualtieri report explicitly states that the council thus the member states failed to fully implement the stability and growth pact and did not use the possibilities provided for in the treaties to stabilise the pact. the report also supports the european commission's 'intention to ensure coherence between the future mechanism and the economic governance of the union', without reservation, in order to avoid a future crisis like the present one. already in paragraph 3 of the report, the european parliament states that it considers the stability mechanism to be 'part of an overall package of measures' 'intended to establish a new framework for strengthening budgetary discipline and the coordination of economic and financial policies in the member states'. i share the view of many of my colleagues.
i have to say, madam president, as a fervent pro-european - and the vast majority of my 500 000 direct voters share this view - i find it very difficult to accept the predicament you have put yourself in. on the one hand we need stability and we need to do something about speculation; on the other hand we need to do something about the economic crisis. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the form is more like emergency legislation than what one would expect from a developing europe. i therefore strongly supported amendment no 34 by the left, which called for the ordinary treaty amendment procedure to be applied. they are doing something out of necessity, which is actually widening the gap between citizens. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my strong disapproval of the way in which martin schulz is treating me in this house.
in writing. there is no such thing as good or bad debt the continuously increasing public debt must be contained. the council has unfortunately failed to fully implement the stability and growth pact. but we cannot allow a structural crisis to continue to be a burden on our citizens. the current problem of public debt can only be solved by demanding strict budgetary discipline. the approach of the member states to apply the 'short-term procedure' is to be rejected, but as mr gualtieri has already said, in order to be able to submit a counter-proposal, it was necessary to concentrate on the substance. i would welcome an initiative to immediately switch the 143 power stations in europe off the grid and to switch to sustainable energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. since the detailed design of safety in nuclear power stations, as is repeatedly emphasized, falls within the competence of the individual member states, i cannot fully support these stress tests at this early stage of the negotiations. in view of the events triggered by a simulated crisis at the chernobyl nuclear reactor in 1986, i am very concerned about such tests unless they are carried out by the eu or a comparable institution and only after a thorough analysis of the state and capacity of each reactor.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his very serious and very responsible approach to this question. we should consider whether wenra should not be upgraded to the european regulator of the 27 member states. we should consider whether we should not make the iaea standards legally binding and also give this new regulator the right to order immediate shutdown if the standards are not met. we should also consider reforming the euratom treaties, focusing on safety and security requirements, but above all on covering the costs of decommissioning and final disposal which must already be met today. i think this is a sensitive issue. we must now use the opportunity here in europe to conduct a peer review and to set up the latest standards so that the health of the population is not further endangered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my sympathy to all those affected by this devastating situation. the tragic accident in japan has led to the nuclear disaster we all know. europe reacted relatively quickly and unitedly, but we are aware - and i hope all nuclear advocates are aware - that radioactivity knows no bounds and that nature knows no safety standards, no matter how strictly defined. we had chernobyl -- a failed so-called stress test -- we have fukushima. it is time for the nuclear-armed forces to put the welfare and preservation of the health of man and nature above all financial interests. let us think of a europe-wide exit and push renewable energies!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a small elite, politically correct group apparently thinks that there are too few refugees in europe and that the european refugee fund should bring refugees who have already fled to a neighbouring third country into the eu because the standard of living is higher there. this is a particularly unusual approach, considering that hundreds of thousands of refugees are currently pouring into europe from north africa, and the island of lampedusa is exploding without warning. it is better to accommodate refugees close to their home countries in the most familiar cultural environment, as is the case in egypt and tunisia, and this would avoid integration problems in europe. the two countries should now be considered safe third countries for refugees after the democratic upheavals, and that is where controlled, sustainable and structural aid should be directed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the old saying 'you love the betrayer, but not the traitor' is true time and again. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. for example, we know that the american convict bradley manning is in prison for his information to wikileaks. but the way this information is being handled in a land of unlimited opportunity and freedom, and that twitter has been convicted of handing over personal data, is more than ominous. whether the colporteur demands for user data from other internet companies such as google, facebook and amazon will come true remains to be seen. the us authorities' action and the fact that the court does not consider the disclosure of names, email addresses and bank details to be an invasion of privacy is at least symptomatic of the overseas data protection regulations data protection regulations that are obviously still in their infancy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sometimes it is difficult for the consumer to be aware of the extent of his actions, for example when downloading digital content. you're used to downloading content for free on the internet. the consumer is still unaware of the cost and unknowingly downloads a subscription, even though he only wanted a one-off service. we really need a legally enshrined right of withdrawal here. another criticism is of course the merger of distance selling and doorstep selling, because there is indeed an exaggerated risk of surprise at the doorstep. on the other hand, small and mediumsized enterprises must not be unnecessarily burdened with contracts outside the premises. for example, a consumer may, on his own initiative, order a craftsman or a barber to come to his home. there is no increased need for protection because there is no danger of surprise. we need a sensible and comprehensive consumer protection, but the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises must also be sufficiently taken into account.
in writing. the generalised system of preferences (gsp) gives 176 developing countries preferential access to the eu market. trade helps reduce poverty in these countries by providing them with duty-free or reduced access to the eu's internal market. i therefore support the rollover regulation to ensure the legal continuity of the gsp so that developing countries continue to have this opportunity. trade is also an important and efficient instrument that enables the countries concerned to develop their rule of law and democracy and to build a well-functioning economy. i am in favour of extending the regulation and moving it forward quickly, given its importance and urgency.
in writing. the reforms that have been under way for some years in the six gulf cooperation council countries which are the eu's main trading partners in the arab world do not seem to be sufficiently welcomed by the public. it remains to be seen to what extent the multibillion-dollar measures planned to support the economy and social conditions in the two poorest of the six member states will be able to put an end to the ongoing demonstrations. the gulf cooperation council has rejected gaddafi's legitimacy and has called for a no-fly zone, but in the member state saudi arabia, protesters have been shot at and in bahrain, protesters are treated with equally little sympathy. even the deployment of special forces from the gulf cooperation council to protect important infrastructure in bahrain is not without controversy, as the shiite opposition is now calling on the international community to protect the people from military intervention. it seems that the no-fly zone has opened pandora's box. in the middle east, the eu must not allow itself to be drawn into internal affairs of state, and that is precisely what is threatening, because the balance in bahrain could tip too quickly. we have seen the value of agreements after a coup in the case of readmission agreements. it is therefore better to wait and see how the situation develops rather than pressing ahead now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have concluded a great many air transport agreements in recent years, always with the old national agreements being consolidated under the european umbrella. now, there is a change in the way the european union is involved, and i think that is very important. the agreement with vietnam is essentially the same old style we have always had. the agreement with canada has more ambition. that's very good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. the agreement with the united states is different. i think that this agreement has been given way too soon. market access is a matter of fairness; it is not fairly regulated. but they gave in. the social conditions are largely lacking. there's not enough going on here. we must be careful not to get social dumping in this area, because in the aviation sector there is also a safety issue. that should be clear for once. the second is that there are big problems in environmental matters. the united states is beginning to press very hard that where there are night flight restrictions to protect fellow trainers, they should be relaxed or lifted. there's a lot of pressure here. i'm afraid there's a bit of a backlash here. that would be a disaster for all the coaches, and i have to say that quite clearly and frankly. and in the security question, the united states is tightening the screws step by step, and unfortunately we have to note the practice of unquestioning follow-up in the european union. this is a mistake! i have to say this very frankly and clearly. finally, a word about code sharing, which is being sold as a great achievement. i 'll tell you what . this ultimately limits the choice of passengers. i can't really choose which line to use, or i'm suddenly faced with something completely different at the gate. the fiction of competition in air transport is becoming more and more a fiction when it comes to the plight of passengers!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all three rapporteurs for their work. these agreements are extremely important for air transport and therefore for our community. however, i would also like to take this opportunity to refer once again to the framework agreement of 20 november 2010 and to express my hope that the european parliament will be informed in an appropriate and timely manner by the commission when negotiating future agreements in the interests of good interinstitutional cooperation and a smooth flow of information. we know that there are good qualities in the negotiation of these and other agreements, but it is important for us to know also the strengths and weaknesses of such agreements after they have entered into force, so that we can then make a better contribution. this will make it easier and more secure for parliament to give its consent.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have three points to make on mrs balzani's work. firstly, the 2012 budget report is based on the premise of improved economic policy coordination between the eu, the european semester and the growth and employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the budget for next year will in particular strengthen two of the strategy's key objectives: improving the level of education and promoting social inclusion, which i believe are key to europe's ability to cope with the future. secondly, it underlines the need to improve the synergies between public investment from eu sources and from member states in order to achieve the eu's policy objectives in a more targeted way overall. more coordination, better coordination and focus on meaningful and common objectives should be supported in order to increase the likelihood of success of the pilot projects. thirdly, climate change and energy targets. in the face of the disaster in japan, everything must be done to promote renewable energy sources. active climate policy and the creation of environmentally-friendly jobs not only contribute to the achievement of climate goals, but also have a positive impact on social policy. last but not least, i would like to remind you that the eu budget must not have a public deficit so proper implementation is of the utmost importance and that it represents only 2% of total public expenditure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. one sentence: i was not allowed to respond directly to mr schulz yesterday. i have sent you all an e-mail first in german, the english and french versions will follow in which i comment on this and i will also defend myself accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that we can all learn from the situation in japan. the lessons to be drawn from the situation in japan concern nuclear power stations. and i call on the council to put proposals on the table urgently. the commission's proposals so far are an incentive for the council's working party on nuclear matters to finally respond to the european parliament's demands. we need to have a serious discussion here and i think the time has come.
in writing. − the trade preferences granted to the republic of moldova by the eu have proved to be appropriate. in addition, no adverse effects on the eu wine industry were recorded. as the poorest country in europe, the republic of moldova needs eu support. this is our moral duty in the interests of european unity and unity. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to extend the period of application.
in writing. − trade is an important and effective tool in combating poverty in developing countries. the rollover regulation on the generalised system of preferences also provides 176 developing countries with legal guarantees of preferential access to the eu market. i have supported the regulation on legal continuity to ensure that developing countries can continue to be offered trade-related opportunities. it is also the eu's moral duty to support these countries in building the rule of law and democracy through fair trade.
in writing. - as early as 1964, some developing countries were calling for trade preferences to improve their economic situation. the first step in the process of liberalization of trade in goods was taken in 1968 with the conclusion of an agreement establishing a system of generalized tariff preferences (gsp). in 1971 the european economic community introduced gsp, and other countries such as the united states followed suit. the temporary granting of trade preferences has been designed to increase the export earnings of developing countries by diversifying export products, to promote industrialization and to accelerate the economic growth of developing countries. the gsp should also ensure that the products benefiting from the scheme originate in developing countries. to date, the gsp is one of the eu's most important instruments in the field of trade and is monitored by the european commission. as the current scheme expires on 31 december of the year, the commission has already put forward a new proposal in may 2010. the commission is proposing to amend the regulation to include a new definition of the term 'competent authority' in the regulation. i shall abstain, since there do not yet appear to be any new, tangible approaches to the new regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this report. as the rapporteur himself points out, the system in its present form is more than flawed. although the commission was asked to submit a proposal for a new regulation which would address the shortcomings of the legal framework and take account of the institutional changes since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, thus ensuring, among other things, greater powers of scrutiny by parliament over the procedure currently used, the draft submitted involves an unnecessary prolongation of the current inadequate situation. the rapporteur also discusses in the parliament's report some of his suggestions for improvements which could or should be included in the future proposal for a new regulation. the commission should take these proposals into account and present a new and improved regulation without delay.
in writing. − air traffic has increased in general and so have the eu and us air transport markets. for a long time, the member states have been negotiating individually with the united states and have concluded bilateral agreements. the eu-wide shift will allow european airlines to fly to any destination in the us from any point in the eu. the first step was to push through some reforms in both the united states and the european union. the new agreement is designed to pave the way for future additional investment and market entry and to improve cooperation between regulators. the agreement is unilateral, however, if existing restrictions on foreign ownership and control in the united states remain. so the eu is once again letting the us fool it with the new agreement, and i cannot support that.
in writing. − it is quite sensible that air transport agreements with the usa are not concluded separately with each member state as in the past, but are now concluded at european level. this will enable european airlines to fly to all destinations in the usa. what i do not like, however, is the one-sidedness of the agreement in question, where the eu makes numerous concessions on the one hand, while the us insists on restrictions on foreign ownership on the other. the eu should have taken a stronger stance on this issue than the us.
in writing. − this agreement is considered as a model for current and future negotiations with other countries. the agreement will abolish all restrictions on routes, prices or number of weekly flights between the two contracting parties. the savings potential of reduced fares is estimated at eur 72 million, which would directly benefit consumers. indirectly, the agreement will create further benefits for our citizens, through new jobs. the agreement was therefore to be approved.
in writing. − the agreement brought the designation clauses of the former bilateral air transport agreements into line with eu law, following a 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union. i agreed to the deal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european union's relations with the gulf cooperation council. as it says in full, the multiple benefits for both parties mean that it is time to make a concerted effort to conclude a free trade agreement after 20 years of negotiations. i also support the negotiating priorities set out in the report, which take account of developments in the field of climate change and the obligation to respect human rights.
in writing. − the report on the 2012 budget refers to the europe 2020 strategy, which once again sets high targets that no one expects to achieve. the fact is that the precarious budgetary situation of some member states which have been living on the shoulders of giants in the past has been used as a financial millstone to hang around the necks of the other member states in the context of the 'bailout'. often, it takes only a small thing to tighten the noose around the neck. these basic conditions make it all the more important that the 2012 budget is not only correctly implemented without overlooking the fact that budgetary control remains strongly desirable but also managed sparingly. referring to 'sufficient financial funding' for the 2020 strategy, when billions of the eu budget are still being invested in black channels and savings potentials, such as the eu agencies jungle or the parliament's premises, have not been used, is a waste of european taxpayers' money. i voted against it because i believe that.
in writing. the current euro crisis underlines the central importance of a correct and thrifty budgetary policy. i reject an increase in funding on the grounds of the need for the 2020 strategy, because the strategy sets objectives that are partly unattainable and partly inappropriate: for example, the massive increase in the academic quota, where there is a shortage of skilled workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore voted against this 2012 budget report.
in writing. − entry and residence of third-country nationals is one thing, but in the past their rights have been increasingly extended. the fact is that the indigenous population rightly feels increasingly disadvantaged by the access of third-country nationals to social benefits, in particular in the area of public housing. in the field of economic migration, it is the well-educated and needed skilled workers who are mainly attracted to other countries. while in the usa, for example, they do not burden the social security funds and in some countries they have to leave again after their employment has ended, they represent an increasing burden for those countries with traditionally well-developed social systems, if they remain in the country permanently in the event of job loss and if they may also have to feed the whole family through family reunification and so on. the present proposal is another step in that direction and must therefore be rejected in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. the consumer directive does indeed have some advantages, such as the improvement of information requirements, the extension of the withdrawal period and also the increased protection obligations of the seller in online shops. consumer protection needs to be further strengthened in order to establish a basis of trust between sellers and consumers. i abstained from voting for a number of reasons, because i think the penalties are insufficient, there is no right of withdrawal in internet auctions and, above all, the definition of doorstep sales is very vague.
in writing. − this report focuses on the merger of four different consumer protection directives, and thus contains the acquis since 2004. in some areas there are simplifications and additions. it is important that any higher standards of protection can be maintained in the member states. on the other hand, the merger of directives will lead to further harmonization. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i welcome today's decision on consumer law. we have taken an important decision for europe's citizens, businesses and the single market. it is gratifying that it has been possible to find a reasonable approach to partial unification of the multitude of european legal systems. nevertheless, from the austrian point of view, there are some problematic points which must now be urgently addressed and clarified in the trilogue negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission: (1) the so-called 'track element' must be included in the text. the 'start-up' element means that if you call a beautician at home to use her services (i.e. you start the business relationship yourself), for example, you can no longer have a right of withdrawal. (2) ensure that there is no additional burden on smes, provided that sufficient consumer protection is ensured. finally, the additional financial and administrative burden on smes would be passed on to the customer. the the commission has also proposed that chapter iv and chapter v (guarantee and abusive clauses) be deleted, since, despite lengthy negotiations, it has not been possible to achieve the full harmonisation sought. the deletion would avoid a stalemate and open up new possibilities in the trilogue negotiations. the the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of electronic communications networks.
in writing. - i voted for the compromise package on consumer rights negotiated between the political groups because it allowed some improvements to be made to the commission's proposal for a directive. it is important that the basis of the directive is again minimum harmonisation and services such as those in the health or social field have been excluded from the directive. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the sale of consumer goods. also, purchases at trade fairs are now qualified as doorstep sales, whereas in austria, until now, purchases at trade fairs were treated legally as purchases in a shop. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the priority here is chapter v of the directive, with which the s&d group is absolutely dissatisfied. we want to avoid making the list of abusive contractual clauses exhaustive, and to allow member states to extend it without restriction, according to their level of consumer protection. many consumers in member states with a long tradition of consumer protection would otherwise experience deterioration. i therefore voted in favour of referring the matter back to committee so that these essential points can also be resolved and improved.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in 2004. its task is to ensure network and information security within the eu. it is also responsible for developing a culture of network and information security for citizens, consumers, businesses and public sector organisations in the european union. the aim of exercises such as the recent one on cybercrime is to ensure security in case of emergency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i did not vote for the report because i fear that the citizens will have to bear the additional costs without any tangible benefits.
in writing. − despite the financial crisis, the eu has been and is continually building up additional authorities, with a new agency being created for each issue and problem. between 2005 and 2009, the budget for eu agencies more than doubled, and the number of staff increased by 65%. the added value is more than questionable: the results are not good and the controls are inadequate. the average annual cost to taxpayers of eu agencies is €579 million. i am clearly against the opening of new agencies; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have therefore voted against the report on the creation of a new information security agency. the commission has more than enough trained officials to take on this task.
in writing. − in 2004, the european network and information security agency was established for a period of five years. its 57 employees are involved in developing network and information security for citizens and consumers, businesses and eu public sector organisations. their tasks included both risk analysis and prevention. the continuous and ever-accelerating development of information and communication technologies and their essential importance for society and the economy will also determine the need for this agency in the future. but i have been calling for a business review of the eu agencies for some time, there are already initiatives to review the whole system, and until such a review is completed i will not agree to renew this agency.
in writing. − the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck japan and the pacific on 11 march 2011 caused thousands of deaths and missing persons, as well as significant property damage, destroying countless lives. this was followed by an extremely serious nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant. according to japanese prime minister naoto kan, the country is experiencing the worst crisis in 65 years since world war ii. in this resolution, the european parliament expresses its solidarity with the japanese people and its sincere sympathy for the victims of the disaster. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and i hope very much that the situation in japan will be brought under control and that a worldwide rethinking of nuclear energy will take place.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to make a very brief statement in favour of this. but because the agenda for wednesday afternoon is so full, i would ask the council and the commission to be very, very brief in their statements and that the vice-presidents in the chair really pay close attention to the time of speaking, otherwise we will have a chaotic situation. i ask that you support the vice-presidents in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if there is any certainty about anything, it is this: the individual member states in the european union are - and this can be clearly seen from the developments of the last few weeks, but also of the last few years - partially overstretched in the area of asylum, but also in the area of migration and immigration alone. it is therefore necessary that the european union should assume more and more responsibility in this area, so that in future the asylum system in the european union will be governed by principles which we all take for granted, namely uniform standards, fair procedures, fair trials and respect for fundamental rights. on the other hand, we must also prevent abuse, because this is always a problem which is discussed very intensely, especially by people in the member states. this is a difficult task, and i hope we will succeed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur is apparently concerned that, despite the influx from north africa, there are too few refugees in the eu, as there is a call for an extension of the concept of family: it is irrelevant whether the family was reunited before or after the flight. the new concept also covers new partners and adopted children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. such language opens the door to abuse. it is also unworldly to think that asylum seekers can expect the same high social standards in every member state. the union is made up of countries with very different standards of living. the same applies to the concept of a safe country of origin. if it is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, it must also be considered as safe. finally, tunisia and egypt, which are on the right track, should probably also be considered safe third countries.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. when i took over the report on export licences for dual-use goods, i was already aware to some extent, but not fully aware of the dimension of this report. the report essentially deals with a practice which somehow always gets in the way of reporting, but which also safeguards jobs and which, in my view, needs to be regulated at european level. the main issue is simplified export authorizations for products which can be used for both military and civilian purposes. it goes from chemicals to nuclear fuels, it goes from weapons parts to computer components, and it ultimately goes - and we've had a very intense discussion about this - to software and software components. i think it is important that the different regulations which currently exist in the member states should be brought into line, that they should be more precise, more specific and also more transparent, and that they should be able to achieve transparency, above all at european level. the report is probably the first time that the european parliament has been able to see the effects of the treaty of lisbon. the commission had originally submitted this proposal to the council in the belief that the matter might be settled by the time the treaty of lisbon was concluded. but that was not the case. it is a matter of concern to the council, and i think it is a good thing that it is being dealt with in the european parliament, because we have different views on some of the matters which i shall be addressing in the following. we have succeeded in overcoming certain legal complications arising from the commission's approach. i would like to thank the commission in particular for having managed to arrange things so that we are now on a legally secure track. finally, there are still some core problems. we in the house agree on essentially everything, with one exception, and that is where we disagree with the council. the question is whether exports should be authorized after they have taken place or before they take place. here, for reasons of security, clarity and transparency, it is sensible to ensure that you ask first before exporting something dangerous and that you do not apply for authorization afterwards when these products have already been exported, because then you will probably not achieve much by prohibiting these exports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption. i think that the european parliament should be informed at the end of the procedure as to what has been granted, where and how much, because we are of course also the body responsible for ensuring that things are done in the best possible way. it is also important that we discuss how we deal with exports of equipment that may be used in ways that violate human rights. i think that such exports should not take place. we have to make sure of that. i look forward to the discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the dual-use regulation under discussion provides for the creation of general authorisations for non-critical goods and technology exported to third countries and having a dual-use purpose. the general authorizations are also intended to provide planning certainty for european exporters and small and mediumsized enterprises. this regulation is intended to make things easier for our european exporters, to save them time-consuming individual authorization procedures and, above all, to strengthen their competitiveness. i therefore think that detailed reporting procedures and the additional requirements imposed on exporters will not bring relief but will add additional burden. there is a clear need to ensure that exports that are subject to dual use are also used safely and cannot present a risk. the question of excessive and unnecessary additional costs must be addressed. an example of this would be a medium-sized machine-building firm which offers a 24-hour service to repair machines or supply spare parts. these services must continue to be possible despite stricter export regulations. the same applies to the area of cyber attacks and stakeholder engagement. if we do not find clear criteria and framework conditions for these areas and if the formulations are imprecise, then i must also raise the question of additional effort and generalization. while it is very important to involve stakeholders in decision-making, this must always be done in the context of practical and meaningful implementation. the importance of transparency and security is also beyond question. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize once again that this regulation is intended to help simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nuclear fuels, chemicals, computer programs can be used for peaceful purposes, but also for military purposes. some member states have been supplying libya with weapons and even instruments of torture for years. the recent arms export report rather a record of sins clearly shows that italy, malta and germany supplied the most weapons to gaddafi. france, on the other hand, was the leader in deliveries to the arab region. others - like my home country of austria - adhere to the restrictions. this imbalance must be fought. all member states and the entire arms industry in the eu must comply with strict controls and transparency requirements. but the system also needs to be updated. in particular, software, it and smartphones must be considered if they are not using democratic movements, as they have recently done in the arab region. differentiated analyses are therefore required with regard to the potential use and the concern of the addressee.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i wanted to use the last two minutes to appeal to the council. but where the council should be, there are empty chairs. i am not sure that it is sensible to hold debates without the council. i think it would be appropriate to tell the council that if it wants something from the european parliament, it should also come here and listen to the discussions in the european parliament. i know this is a big business. it is a matter of many goods, it is a matter of jobs, especially jobs in the small and mediumsized enterprises which produce high technology, which is incredibly important. it is very important to them that there should be uniform rules in the european union, and not - as mr fjellner has suggested - that one country fulfils its obligations and another does not, and in the end it is the fools who follow the rules. it shouldn't be. that is why it is important that we come to a solution quickly and that the council also accepts that not everything is going as it imagines. that's important too. if we have this understanding, we will quickly find a solution in the interests of the european economy, in the interests of european jobs and in the interests of respect for human rights, of respect for security, of respect for physical integrity outside the european union. this report should contribute to that.
mr president, out of respect for the rapporteur i will try my luck in english and hope it will be good enough! it is very important when we think about tourism that we recognise what a huge economic factor tourism already is within the european union. it is also a huge factor regarding work space, and especially regarding small and medium-sized enterprises, which do much business within the field of tourism. we also have to recognise that tourism has not only positive values, but also causes problems – problems related to transport, to overcrowded beaches, and so on. to solve these things we need good statistics, good data. this report helps us with that. it is a very good report and everybody should support it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it would be nice if the question of why tourism is so successful - why one destination is popular while others are declining - could be answered by meaningful statistics. but that is a wish that is unlikely to be fulfilled. too many uncertainties, such as weather conditions, make tourist forecasts a gamble. it is not even certain whether the opening of new air routes increases the number of overnight stays or whether, on the contrary, new air routes are a consequence of increasing demand from travellers. however, the limited availability and comparability of tourist data is also a problem in urban planning. finally, in view of the potential increase in the number of visitors, the organisation must be oriented to avoid negative concomitant effects on the local population. the introduction of flexible working hours and safety policies have an impact on tourism as well as on social developments. the world economy and perhaps the price of oil will be decisive in the end. even the best european tourism statistics will not be able to change this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not clear under what article i should now speak. i complained earlier in the other debate that the council was not present. but you should not just complain, but also address things when they are good. i would just like to say that the way the commissioner is acting today, the way she is speaking - briefly, concisely, with a certain competence - could serve as an example for some of her colleagues to follow in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. violence against women takes many forms and remains an international problem that the world community is still unable to address. the use of force is to endanger the health, dignity, safety and freedom of the victim. as a consequence, the women concerned are restricted in their participation in social life and in the world of work. in addition, violence against women is also a social problem, if you consider the costs, for example, in the health and justice sectors. women are most vulnerable in their own homes. the most common cause of injury to women is domestic violence. violence against women, in whatever form, is not a crime of chivalry. the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women must also be signed by the eu.
the commission has already done so. the european union has been and is a pioneer in gender issues; it is also in the fight against violence against women. apart from the horror, violence against women is also expensive. the report states that it costs 33 billion euros annually, which ultimately causes violence. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. but it is necessary. training of police officers, judges, medical personnel - all of this is covered in the report, and i should like to thank the rapporteur for that. i do see a small drop of wormwood, however, and i would like to emphasize that. particular attention should also be paid to violence in the workplace. i think that we should be more specific in this respect.
in writing. it can happen anywhere: on the street, in the subway, in one's own home nowhere can women and children feel 100% safe from assault. the deadening and pseudo-morality of society should be a cause for reflection. the precursors to actual violence such as intrusions, obscene remarks and harassment, which are daily directed by many migrants towards western women, are increasingly perceived as normal. and the height of contempt for women is when a german judge uses the husband's right to discipline as a criterion in a muslim divorce. with migration, the eu has imported problems from all countries of the world, including honour killings, forced marriages and domestic violence in patriarchal family structures. culture, religion and tradition must not be used to justify acts of violence. it's the only way to break the spiral of violence. the extent to which the increase in reported domestic violence is linked to the increased willingness of victims to defend themselves and the proportion of immigrants is not revealed by the statistics. the fact is that there are a large number of migrant women in the women's shelters. it is also a fact that the pseudo-humanity, in which crimes, if they are religious or cultural, are rewarded with leniency under criminal law, must be put to rest.
the commission has already done so. every day, people from overpopulated and underdeveloped countries are known to risk their lives because the eu has not clarified, according to pseudo-humanitarian notions, that different rules apply to refugees and migrants. as you know, the geneva convention on refugees defines a refugee as a person who is outside the country of which he is a national owing to a well-founded fear of political, religious or racial persecution. but this definition does not apply to the vast majority of people who come to europe every day. they want to go somewhere in the eu, where they think milk and honey are flowing, to try their luck, and mostly just to immigrate into our social systems. this may be understandable from your point of view, but as members of the european parliament we have to represent the interests of europeans! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would also be unfair, especially to countries like tunisia and libya, which are just emerging from dictatorships and are embarking on the path to democracy and would need all the strength they can to rebuild their own countries. these people must build their homelands! tunisia has been a free country since the end of the ben ali dictatorship. this is something that should be taken into account in the discussion of how to deal with the mass outbreak from north africa here in the eu. i believe that all economic refugees should be turned away as soon as they try to reach europe. they must not even be allowed to enter lampedusa, and we should give the eu agency frontex the necessary powers to do so.
i have to say, madam president, concerned europeans are becoming more and more afraid. there are two issues that are particularly moving. the first is that the economic and euro crisis is still not being dealt with in a consistent manner. the council and the commission are also lagging behind. we need to cut the debt, at least in greece, probably also in portugal. there's no way around it. the longer you wait to tackle this question, the more costly it will be, not only in financial terms but also in terms of the common belief in the european project. what is happening in greece is causing a stir of emotions. we were there with a special delegation: the general feeling is that the eu is to blame for the problems in greece because there is no proper communication and because the necessary steps, which are already clearly foreseeable today, are not being taken. the second issue is nuclear power. the preparations for the so-called stress tests will only make sense and restore credibility to the common europe if these stress tests are indeed carried out according to strict criteria - not the ilo's soft criteria - if independent experts are actually involved and if the results and the whole process are really presented publicly and are understandable.
i have to say, madam president, the european council meeting was known to have discussed three sensitive issues, in which the eu's decisions were, in my view, characterized by unlearning and a loss of reality. the first is that the 700 billion from the bailout will soon be exhausted and then the net contributors to the eu may be dragged into the abyss. instead of acknowledging the failure of the stability mechanism in the spirit of efficient crisis management, the eu has only multiplied the risk for all. secondly, it is doubtful whether an opposition of former gaddafi ministers is really interested in democracy. what is most disturbing to me is the identification of the military commander in chief of the libyan rebels as a long-time cia agent. finally, the stress tests on nuclear power stations, which are intended to be carried out voluntarily and without consequences, are evidence of the loss of reality in brussels. the commission has, however, shot down the bird by reactivating a 20-year-old regulation without adjusting the limit values for radioactively contaminated food.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, i have a few questions for you. it's good that we came to an agreement. it is good that the european economy and the european currency are now better protected. but is the shooter alone enough? is it not necessary to go further? is it not necessary to create a boom so that what we are protecting can also be preserved? i think that too little is being done here and that it is the wrong thing to do. why does the european union invest in the export of cucumbers, bananas and beef, and not in universities, in knowledge, in schools? that's something we have to think about. and if you say we don't have the money, then maybe we could switch shifts. we must also consider whether we might be able to generate new revenue from those who have always benefited from this unspeakable situation. mr barroso, why is your commission really against a financial transaction tax? answer me this, please. you have to decide whether you are on the side of the financial industry or the citizens!
i have to say, madam president, the eu is a champion of repression. for decades, gaddafi has been treated as a credible partner, for decades the dangers of nuclear power have been dismissed, and now we continue to pump into a lifeline that clearly does not work. why can't people see that the bailout is not the way to deal with the euro crisis? after greece, portugal has now been downgraded by us rating agencies, and the bailout package ultimately benefits only banks and speculators betting on bankrupt euro states. i therefore say: no more bailouts and no more planned eurobonds! if the bankrupt countries remain in the eurozone, it will be the beginning of the end of the euro. we must therefore use the billions for the rescue packages to prevent the flow of refugees from north africa by means of sustainable projects on the ground, or to ensure the independence of nuclear energy. the money would certainly be better invested here than in the international gambling casinos.
i have to say, madam president, the treaty amendment launched the esm. i would like to ask you once again to respect the relevant criteria. the fact that another member state, and above all its citizens, is 'kissing the hand' is irresponsible in the face of the prevailing structural crisis, which is still ongoing. the esm can only be legitimate if all the member states respect their budgetary commitments and commit themselves to austerity. the japanese crisis has shown us how 'safe' nuclear power can be. nature is stronger than man. we can only hope that the stress tests will be approached with more caution than the limits imposed last week, given the chernobyl story. no more akws! let's focus on renewable energy! the norger submarine cable project, for example, could replace 60 power stations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vote produced a result which can be discussed in substance, but we are now very close to the council's position and i would now ask, in agreement with the shadow rapporteurs, that the final vote be postponed because the possibility of reaching a complete agreement with the council is now very high.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to protect workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. poland has requested assistance in respect of 594 redundancies in three enterprises in the podkarpackie/poland region. it is good and right to provide personal support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis, thereby helping to reintegrate them into the labour market. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − the continuing flow of migration in europe makes it all the more important to oppose the legalisation of economic refugees. it is important to encourage developing countries to keep these people in their countries. there is no point in allowing people from developing countries to enter the labour market, especially since the unemployment rate in the euro area is currently 9.9%. the report by mr provera was originally very good and balanced, but unfortunately it has been altered in the wrong direction by various amendments. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as it points out, the current migration flows sometimes lead to massive tensions between countries of origin and host countries, with transit countries and also within host countries. as a preventive measure, mr provera suggests tackling the root causes of migration and integrating the lack of democratic and economic stability in the host countries into european foreign policy. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission, and in particular lady ashton, in various reports on development policy, to make the human rights situation a subject of all negotiations and to provide support and trade facilitation exclusively in this package. this requirement was reaffirmed.
in writing. − the european parliament's report aims to improve living and working conditions for women in rural areas and to create opportunities for their development. the central demand is to further develop rural infrastructure to provide women with new prospects and employment opportunities. the reconciliation of family and work is also an issue affecting farm management. i am convinced, as is the rapporteur, that only by actively promoting rural areas can we counteract the migration of women to the cities. this also requires childcare facilities tailored to the needs of farmers, family-oriented infrastructure and access to the internet and other communication technologies. in order to implement a number of important rural policies, sufficient funding for agriculture and rural development will be needed in the future. i support the call in the report to stress the importance of not reducing the share of agricultural expenditure in the eu budget in the forthcoming negotiations on the future eu financial framework.
in writing. - in rural areas, the role of women is still a subordinate one. the report suggests that the needs of women, particularly in non-urban areas, should be better addressed. opportunities for continuing education and training and better links with childcare facilities should be provided. women farmers are also increasingly contributing to the diversification and market adaptation of farms, which has significantly increased the multifunctionality of agriculture. to maintain agriculture as an attractive place to work and live for women, women should be given the opportunity to influence decisions in committees and associations. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i voted for this report because the deaths of farmers must be stopped at various levels.
in writing. - women are the backbone of our agriculture in many ways. the role of women is becoming more important as we try to create the conditions for sustainable, ecological agriculture adapted to small farmers' structures. it is therefore important that the work of women in the agricultural sector is given greater attention and recognition in society. in addition, the specific needs of women in agriculture must be addressed in the future in order to encourage younger generations to take up the agricultural sector. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs schleicher. the report clearly highlights the important contribution made by women in recent years to promoting sustainable rural development and achieving diversification and market adaptation of farms. however, in order to provide women with a rural perspective, the cap must take greater account of women's specific aspects, including (as the report points out) offering specific educational and counselling approaches and providing infrastructural assistance.
in writing. − nuclear reactors in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria cannot be upgraded to meet the minimum safety requirements at economically viable costs. the three countries undertook, in the context of the accession negotiations, to shut down and decommission their nuclear reactors by a date to be determined by each. to promote an efficient decommissioning, a clear financial framework and controls on the proper use of the funds made available are needed. i therefore support mr marinescu's report, because the safety of european citizens must be our top priority.
in writing. − retrofitting to meet the minimum safety requirements would have been impossible or too costly for some nuclear reactors in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. with eu accession, the ceecs were granted decommissioning aid for scrap-ready reactors. until 2009, some €1.3 billion had been paid to lithuania (ignalina), slovakia (bohunice v1) and bulgaria (kosloduj). the eu is committed to making further payments until the end of 2013. in the wake of the russian-ukrainian gas crisis, slovakia considered reactivating the decommissioned bohunice scrap-oil power plant to compensate for the energy shortage caused by the lack of russian gas supplies. japan has shown us how easily a nuclear power plant can get out of control. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i have approved the report on the decommissioning of the three nuclear power stations in the member states of lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. since the nuclear reactors do not even meet the minimum safety requirements, their dismantling was a condition in the accession negotiations of the three countries, and the european union undertook to cover part of the financial costs of dismantling them. in this context, it is particularly gratifying that the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in lithuania has resulted in the decommissioning of the country's only nuclear power plant.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to protect workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the czech republic has requested assistance for 634 redundancies. it is good and right to provide personal support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis, thereby helping to reintegrate them into the labour market. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i can only support the amendment tabled by the s&d group which requires that when granting egf funds, a company must be assessed as a whole. i have already called for this on several occasions and emphatically in the committee on budgets. i was not able to agree with the report as a whole. the czech unilever čr spol.sr.o, which operates in the retail sector, laid off 634 workers and applied for support measures for all of this laid-off workforce (normally the individual measures are only needed for a part of the laid-off workforce to help them re-enter the labour market). as has been emphasised in every report in which parliament approves egf assistance, structural fund assistance cannot be used as a substitute for measures which are the responsibility of undertakings under collective agreements.
in writing. − goods and technology for civilian and possible military purposes should be subject to equal conditions of competition in all member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. the aim is to counteract an artificial reduction in the selling prices of european exports - a clear strengthening of european smes. i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation because transparency and security must be the first priority for such goods and technologies.
in writing. − exports of dual-use goods and technology are tightly regulated within the eu. the term covers in particular goods and technology which can also serve a military purpose. in order to prevent abuse in the export industry, there are four types of export authorization: the community general export authorization, national export authorizations, worldwide export authorizations and individual export authorizations. each one is valid within the eu. there are also international export control regimes to which the eu is committed and where the commission is trying to improve the eu's standing. these include the australia group, of which the commission is a full member and in which each of the 27 states, as well as the usa, canada, japan, south korea and australia, participate; the nuclear suppliers group, in which the commission has observer status and the eu-27 with the usa and russia participate; the wassenaar arrangement, in which the commission has no status but all eu member states except cyprus are full members; and the background technology control regime, in which the commission also has no status and only 19 member states are full members. in order not to infringe the principle of subsidiarity, i voted accordingly.
in writing. − public or publicly supported export credit agencies are important financiers of public financing of private sector projects, including in developing countries. they are still gaining in importance for european companies' investments in times of tight budgets, provided they do not have to refinance themselves with taxpayers' money. as the risk assessment of public export credit agencies is completely different from that of private bank lending, there can be distortions of competition in international trade, as the example of china illustrates. for this reason, there are a number of regulations, such as oecd and wto agreements, which fix repayment periods and a minimum premium rate. the evaluation, in order to exclude misuse and to prevent refinancing from taxpayers' money, requires standards for greater transparency through the eu-wide obligation to disclose annual balance sheet reports, etc. it is questionable whether the proposed measures will achieve greater transparency. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. − although progress has been made in the fight against violence against women and children in recent decades and years, much remains to be done. the deadening and pseudo-morality of society should be a cause for reflection. the precursors to actual violence such as intrusions, obscene remarks and harassment, which are daily directed by many migrants towards western women, are increasingly perceived as normal. and the height of contempt for women is when a german judge uses the man's right to discipline, enshrined in the koran, as a criterion in a muslim divorce. with migration, the eu has imported problems from all over the world, including honour killings, forced marriages and domestic violence in patriarchal family structures. culture, religion and tradition must not be used to justify acts of violence. the proposed initiative contains some good ideas, but it is not very detailed, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the report draws attention to some serious cases of violence against women. i am thinking of sexual abuse, physical violence within the family, forced prostitution, forced marriages and female circumcision. all these are terrible events which unfortunately can also take place in our society in the middle of the eu. the report addresses this but does not go to the root of the problems, which are often rooted in parallel societies, archaic islamic structures or organized smuggling gangs. this is where you start. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted for this report because violence against women is a global problem which the international community is still unable to tackle. violence against women is pervasive across all social strata and is independent of culture, education, age and income. women are most at risk in their own homes - domestic violence is the leading cause of injury to women, more than road accidents and cancer combined. the health, dignity and safety of those affected are severely impaired and they are no longer able to participate in social life and the world of work as they would like. violent perpetrators cause lifelong suffering to the women and their children, and they also cause a social problem, with health and legal costs in the billions of euros. violent people should therefore be held accountable and publicly charged. violence against women must finally be addressed and brought to an end.
democracy means popular rule, as we all know, and in austria we took that very seriously in 1978. we have asked the citizens about nuclear energy, and the result was clearly a nuclear-free austria. this is why we passed the nuclear ban act, which is now constitutional. but what about the eu? the plan is to conduct stress tests on the nuclear power plants and publish them. however, the tests are not mandatory and do not contain any specific obligation to correct defects. i therefore very clearly support an austrian action: 'shut down! and i want to see this across europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power industry is not left behind. i therefore ask you, mr president barroso: will you promote uniform, mandatory european standards and will you finally ensure that eu environmental standards, in particular the environmental impact assessment, are properly implemented and that non-compliance is also sanctioned accordingly?
i thank you, mrs flašíková, for allowing me to put this question to you. you have read the report very carefully and you are certainly aware that it provides for fines to be paid by the member states if deviations from the report are found or if the strategy is not complied with. how do you feel about a state being fined for not complying with the obligation to attend primary school? in all countries, attendance at primary school is compulsory. so if roma children do not attend primary school, is the country in question liable to pay a fine as such? do you not agree that parents should also be concerned about their children's need to go to school?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ep is careful to budget its 2012 budget in the face of the ongoing structural crisis in our member states. the tasks and expenditure of all the institutions are continuously increasing as a result of eu enlargement, the lisbon treaty and new activities. still, thrift is paramount. it is therefore logical that parliament should pursue a course of consolidation in the area of staff and reduce expenditure on parliament's operations, missions and missions. i particularly support the secretary-general's proposal to continue the environmental policy of our house. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the house of european history is very much in favour of its content. it is therefore welcome that the budgetary authority has now also been informed of the project. i would also like to see a massive reduction in costs and full transparency on all points.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that every year the budget challenges us to be frugal and to use our resources efficiently. i think we can still do a lot in this house in terms of efficiency. it would be good if we set up our own sections where members and staff can make suggestions for improvement, which would then also promote efficiency in the house. on the other hand, since the treaty of lisbon we have had specialised ministers who have sufficient resources in their member states, have their own specialised staff, cabinets and the appropriate financial resources which they could use to make european policy more understandable to the citizens. we in the european parliament have a responsibility to make the people aware of what is decided here every day for the benefit of the citizens. the new powers in the fields of energy, world trade and foreign policy, but also in the areas of competition, the environment and social affairs, which are so important to us all, must also be given sufficient resources by parliament. i am also a very strong advocate of flat rates, because then of course there is the possibility of making corresponding savings. anyone who thinks they're well-supplied in economy class on short haul flights should fly economy. that's not a question. or if someone doesn't use the secretarial allowance cap, that's fine too. we are all called upon to decide for ourselves how much work we have to do and how much we want to communicate with the citizens. this should be left to the members of parliament to decide, because it is also crucial that we communicate the benefits well.
i have to say, madam president, mistakes are made out of carelessness or ignorance. however, fraud does not just happen, but requires a high level of criminal energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. but this is not just damaging the eu, it is also misusing the tax money of our fellow citizens. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. i am thinking of heavy financial penalties, but also exclusion from the subsidies as a consequence. what we ultimately need is more transparency, clear responsibilities in cases of suspected fraud and negligence. it is not possible for the institutions, in particular the european parliament, and olaf to impede each other's investigations. finally, we have the children of concern: cohesion policy, pre-accession aid and agencies. we must think clearly and act quickly and bring order to the situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not commissioner, thank you very much for this information. we have now had the lisbon treaty for two years, and in it we have for the first time enshrined the sustainable social market economy as a european regulatory model. this can be a quantum leap towards economic and social union in europe. the single market concept must be based on this principle. we have had the single market for 20 years, but it is not finished yet. we have a europe 2020 strategy which cannot be implemented without strengthening the internal market, and we are discussing the financial perspective up to 2020, which, if it does not include more money for policy initiatives for competitiveness, growth, employment and social solidarity, will not allow the europe 2020 concept to be fully implemented in its objectives. the euro makes the single market a home market. the single market is the heart of growth and employment, and anything that strengthens it also strengthens europe's competitiveness and thus the independence of our continent. i am therefore very pleased that we are taking this initiative. it is the most important initiative we can take as the european union. this is about access to capital for smes. we must ensure that smes are not only financed through credit financing and not only through the promotion of loans, but that we also find other ways. we need to strengthen the risk capital funds that promote project bonds and e-commerce, crack down on piracy, create common consolidated corporate valuation bases, regulate public procurement and realise the four freedoms - freedom of movement of persons, goods, services and capital. we have a lot to do together. i thank you for your initiative, commissioner.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market package is about getting the european union back on its feet, about re-establishing a regulatory framework for citizens, workers, consumers and businesses after several years of the wild west mentality. the keyword for all these measures is inclusion involvement of civil society, social dialogue, the active application of the horizontal social clause in accordance with the principles of the social market economy. what i personally lack, and what is a real gap in the internal market, is a proposal for the transfrontier relocation of companies, of companies with limited liability. the present situation leads to negative competition between the systems. this is not good for the companies, and it is not good for the employees. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. please address this issue as well.
in writing. - natural disasters are no longer rare in europe. recent events such as the 2010 floods in poland, slovakia, romania, the czech republic and hungary show that a solidarity fund is more than necessary. the purpose of this fund is not to compensate for private losses but to rebuild infrastructure and can therefore be considered as an appropriate refinancing instrument. in particular, in countries such as poland, slovakia, hungary and romania, the scale of the disasters is higher, with direct damage exceeding the usual threshold of 0.6% of gni. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − due to the heavy rains in august 2010, which caused rivers to overflow and people to leave their homes, the czech republic applied for assistance from the solidarity fund in october 2010. the threshold of 0.6% of gni was not exceeded, but most of the population was affected and the economic stability of the region was also on the verge of collapse. important sectors such as tourism and business have been badly damaged. this support may cover part of the costs of emergency measures to repair damaged infrastructure. that is why i support this project.
in writing. − the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros aims to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector through all financial instruments. the purpose of this protocol is to create a framework conducive to the development of investment in this sector and to the improvement of the value of products from artisanal fisheries. i welcome the proposal to conclude this new protocol.
in writing. − the eu's fishing fleet is on the move around the world. since 1988, there have been bilateral relations between the present eu and the union of the comoros. the current revision of the 2006 fisheries partnership agreement, in the context of its renewal, also incorporated the basic principles of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources in the comorian zone. this is not only welcome but necessary if the eu and its common fisheries policy are to be credible. in this context, the rapporteur's call for more information and control by parliament should also be strongly supported. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the negotiations were based on the de facto free-trade area, which has not provided for the settlement of disputes between the eu and the mediterranean countries. the dispute settlement mechanism shall be based on the usual international procedural rules. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − the task of diplomatic services has sometimes included the settlement of disputes relating to the euro-mediterranean agreements. the aim is to establish mechanisms at eu level to resolve disputes and to help politically unstable regions such as morocco to build a unified state based on peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. i shall abstain because the rapporteur does not go into detail on how to ensure that the mechanisms are respected.
in writing. − as the rules for settling disputes are based on diplomatic channels and can be easily blocked, a new mechanism for settling trade disputes is to be encouraged. this mechanism is to be based on the agreements and wto agreements already concluded by the eu. there are already initialled agreements with jordan, morocco and egypt, which also cover trade in agricultural products. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to give its consent to these agreements.
in writing. − ukraine's participation in european union programmes is an important step for both ukraine and the union. this can be used to encourage the mutual exchange of science and research. student programmes would be expanded, and both sides would have financial, economic and social advantages on their side. the geographical situation of ukraine is an important aspect and also represents a major advantage for the union, as it allows for better contacts with other eastern european states. that's why i'm in favor of this project.
in writing. − nothing shall prevent trade in fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and their by-products between greenland and the european union, subject to compliance with the general union rules and conditions. on that basis, there is no objection to the content of the agreement. therefore, the import of the products for trade within the union is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the rights of asylum seekers are at the forefront of the common european asylum effort. however, this overlooks the fact that the majority of asylum seekers are not asylum seekers, but economic migrants who have no right to asylum under the geneva convention and who keep the authorities busy with misinformation and delaying tactics, causing billions in costs. conversely, little progress has been made in the area of returns. in this sense, given the flows of refugees from the overpopulated regions of the world, which are largely economically motivated and which only import problems and conflicts from all parts of the world, without any participation of the alleged 'asylum seeker', higher protection standards, which by their magnetic effect only exacerbate the problem of asylum and economic migration, must be categorically rejected.
in writing. - with meaningful statistics that provide answers to the questions about the reasons for tourist success and trends, many bad investments could be avoided. many cities have been suffering for years from the unfulfilled tourist expectations of the european capital of culture. however, the limited availability and comparability of tourist data is also a problem in urban planning. finally, in view of the potential increase in the number of visitors, the organisation should be oriented to avoid negative concomitant effects on the local population. too many uncertainties, expectations and intangible attractions such as certain weather conditions make tourist forecasts a gamble. the introduction of flexible working hours and safety policies have an impact on tourism as well as on social developments. the world economy and the price of oil will probably be the decisive factors in the end. even the best european tourism statistics will not change that, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - the regulation is an important instrument for implementing the common fisheries policy. control activities play an increasing role in the sustainability and survival of the fisheries sector and it is important that member states and their supervisory authorities implement control measures in their waters to ensure that fisheries are regulated and conserve resources. in addition, the importance of aquaculture is increasing, so that it is justified to introduce the possibility of collecting, managing and using ecological data in addition to socio-economic data. i welcome the amendment to the regulation because it ensures that the measures mentioned above are achieved.
in writing. − the extension of the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for a further 18 months will allow the analysis and evaluation of the current impact on the vessels and ecosystems affected by the regulation. the proposal is therefore welcome in order to make the best use of the potential for improvement it reveals. the results of the evaluation will then be used by the commission in the preparation of the new proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures.
in writing. − the european parliament has a duty to spend taxpayers' money in an appropriate and responsible manner. especially in times of economic crisis is it especially important to be frugal with tax money. it is therefore extremely regrettable that parliament does not commit itself to a sparing attitude and, for example, does not use business class flights for flights of less than four hours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − while mr fernandez's report on the eu parliament's budget for the financial year 2012 reflects to a large extent austerity, prudent use of budgetary resources and the greatest possible transparency in the use of funds, as well as support for ongoing environmental policy and constant information to european citizens, it does not reflect the views of the european parliament. but on the one hand it is incomprehensible why there was no majority for not freezing the expenditure on 'office costs' for 2012 and on the other hand the expenditure on the 'house of european history' is far too high and needs urgent revision in times of structural crisis.
in writing. − if you leave something in a shop, you will be caught and punished. the eu's bailout fund, on the other hand, can be used to divert millions almost without risk. not only is the likelihood of being caught low, even if fraud can finally be proven, but member states are hardly interested in prosecution and recovery of the funds. the generous system of subsidies remains an invitation to fraud and irregularities. the fraud cases are particularly high in the eastern and southern member states. the most vulnerable are the guidance services. in the case of turkey, the pre-accession aid is not only benefiting a non-european country but is also sometimes going down dark channels. to prevent further damage to the taxpayers, the ship must be cleared. the present report is only one step in that direction. in the end, there is still no guarantee that european taxpayers' money will not be diverted to another eu country or even to regions outside the eu. i voted accordingly.
in writing. − the high error rates in the allocation of eu funding must be effectively addressed as a matter of urgency. however, fraudulent embezzlement of public funds must be stopped immediately and rigorously. to maximise the impact of eu funding for the benefit of citizens, the eu and its member states must work together, as this is in the interest of both. the report notes that the integrated administration and control system is undermined by inaccurate data, incomplete controls or lack of follow-up - this needs to be corrected. clear rules and full transparency in participation and award of grants, coupled with strict rules on controls, are the best means of preventing fraudulent practices in the first place.
in writing. − the single market should be strengthened considerably, especially in times of economic crises and their effects. the aim is to restore job security, which could be achieved in particular by supporting smes, one of the main economic drivers in national economies. as the rapporteur is in favour of increased monitoring and evaluation of internal market policies, i did not vote for the report. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would ask you to take it up with the council.
in writing. − the reinvigoration of the internal market will draw on the lessons of the past decades and make important adjustments on the basis of these lessons. to prevent future delays in national implementation, the instruments provided for by the lisbon treaty will be activated, with national parliaments to be involved throughout the legislative process at european level. the second proposal is particularly important, as it aims to ensure that the directive is properly implemented at regional and local level, and thus closest to the citizen, and to ensure that the intention which was the key factor in the drafting and adoption of the directive at european level is also reflected in the citizens of europe.
in writing. - smes in particular are an important driver of the economy as a whole. they should be given a much greater chance of establishing and expanding within the single market. this requires capital that smes can access more easily. another factor in ensuring the lasting and sustainable growth of european economies is the promotion of the services sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in general, the single market must be made more attractive in order to become an environment that is innovative and business-friendly. to improve competitiveness and boost growth, the eu would also need a digital single market. the single market itself should be able to benefit all businesses within the eu, although some areas, such as electricity trading, would still have considerable scope for expansion. the report did not receive my vote because the rapporteur is in favour of introducing a new vat strategy, but does not go into detail about what it might look like in reality.
(the president asked for a further question) i would ask mrs trautmann to answer a question. in france, there is the model of the independent regulators, who do a very good job. do you think that the french model could be applied to the whole of europe, with a european regulator modelled on the french model?
mrs jordan cizelj, there is a power station in your country in krško, which is viewed with a certain amount of criticism, partly because it is located in an earthquake zone. are you prepared to at least advocate that it be one of the first power stations to be subjected to rigorous, hopefully objective stress tests, in order to ensure for the citizens that this power station, although situated in an earthquake zone, is at least not an immediate danger or that it can be repaired while it is still in existence?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am also from austria, and the concern for krško affects us all. i hope that the assurances given by mrs jordan cizelj will also be respected. i am particularly concerned and sympathetic to the japanese people who are suffering and who are taking these events with stoic calm. but let us take something positive from the crisis. the only positive thing is that we are thinking and here in europe too are beginning to learn from this crisis. the only short-term lesson is that we must also massively increase the safety of european reactors. another lesson must be that we are setting up a european disaster prevention system. europe really has a duty to have its security teams working together across borders. the only lesson we can learn in the long term is that we must work together to prepare an exit scenario, because events clearly show that nuclear technology is too dangerous in the current state of the art - and that is unlikely to change in the future. the consequences are too long-term. you can see from my remarks that the rift runs through all the groups, including the epp, but overall i think we should take it to heart that the famous security promised to us by all simply cannot be guaranteed. the stress tests must therefore also cover the cumulation of the various risks. if you look at individual risks, you will never get a realistic scenario. realistically, we can say that it is very difficult to predict a tsunami, for example, even though it will probably not happen here in europe, but there are certainly earthquake zones here in europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the nuclear disaster in japan has taught us one thing: nature is stronger and more powerful than man. it is therefore high time to take the old and/or earthquake-prone power plants off the grid once and for all and to phase out nuclear energy in the long term. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to take part in the stress tests. please, not another chernobyl! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by radioactive substances. withdraw this implementing regulation immediately, preferably today. let us invest in alternative energy sources and use them! they do exist! they're safer and more environmentally and human-friendly. and one more thing: they create new jobs. in austria, we had a two-village that never got on the internet. today it's a solar power plant.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in yemen, syria and bahrain, the jasmine revolution, which started in tunisia, is not going so peacefully. a dialogue between the government and the opposition is certainly the best way to achieve the active solution of social and economic problems that the population wants and to bring about a change towards greater democratic participation. whether such agreements will hold up is a completely different matter. after all, it was the broken promises of political reform that triggered the wave of protests. too long has it been quiet, now action must follow. the dual strategy of violently suppressing opposition demonstrations and promising a few minor reforms without actually bringing about political change could lead to an escalation of the situation in all three countries. we know that. the ongoing unrest in syria has also raised concerns that weapons acquired by the regime could be sold to terrorist organisations such as hezbollah. in any case, i believe that the eu must play the role of impartial mediator in these conflicts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that there are many young people in these countries who are longing for democracy, modernisation and freedom. that should be taken into account. we should try to win friends in these countries and not pass judgments in a blanket way, but mark individually those who do not follow the rules of a modern society. we should therefore try to organise exchange programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, teachers, professors and journalists. it is also our task to seek out friends in these countries. i hope that soon actions will be taken in this way.
in writing. syria, bahrain and yemen. these three countries have one thing in common besides islam: they're ruled by authoritarianism. whether it's the king, the president, or the assad clan. they undoubtedly represent undemocratic systems, although western-oriented. the emergence of revolutionary tendencies, such as in egypt or tunisia, is being stifled in its infancy, democracy and human rights are being ignored. in yemen, for example, 37% of underage girls are still forced into marriage. yemen is now ranked second in the world, behind only somalia. the governments of these three countries must prove that they are working for their people and not against them. the eu has supported and courted countries for decades as long as economic and geopolitical advantages were at stake. the eu should do more to promote democracy and human rights in these countries and to combat radical islamisation.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was one of the first rapporteurs for macedonia in this house, or perhaps the first ever. i am sorry to see how things have developed or not. i then became a reporter for croatia, and you can see the difference. croatia also had problems with its neighbours, for example slovenia, but croatia has worked to resolve these problems. and if macedonia is not doing enough to solve these problems - without me wanting to make a one-sided blame - then at least this is also a problem of macedonia. let 's face it . is it possible to create a greater identity for the country by putting a statue of alexander the great in every square? is it creating more identity for the country by naming the airport after alexander the great? you have to have an interest in solving the problems! why is this interest important? the commissioner referred to the ohrid agreement, which was a great step forward, but the less the country and the government try to carry out internal reforms and find a solution with greece, the more the albanian people in the country will say to themselves: what are we doing together in this country if we do not really have the possibility of joining the european union? it is therefore urgently necessary to seek a solution together with greece.
i have to say, madam president, i should like to say something very briefly about the objection of the member who has disappeared, concerning the cost. the two rapporteurs, who have produced very good reports, and to whom i am grateful, are actually quite clear about the costs of not pursuing a neighbourhood policy. it would be much higher: the human cost, if i think only of the refugee tragedy in the south, but of course also the economic and social cost, if i think of our entire neighbourhood in the south and in the east. let me say a few words about the eastern neighbourhood, and other colleagues will also be speaking about the southern neighbourhood. yes, the situation in belarus is bad! but we must do everything we can to reach out to the unofficial bodies, to the citizens, to the young people, to the students, to promote from within a development that is genuinely positive and democratic. i would like to say one thing to mr schulz, who said earlier that belarus and ukraine have been thrown into the same pot, that there are already very big differences. we should look at ukraine in particular, and not only at what is bad, but also at what is going well and what is changing for the better. i will briefly turn to the south caucasus, because it is very important to turn our attention there as well: we see worrying conditions and developments in azerbaijan, where bloggers and protesters are being imprisoned. it is unworthy for a country like azerbaijan and for the president to do that. we are concerned about the possibility of a new conflict between azerbaijan and armenia. i would ask the commissioner to keep a very close eye on this region in particular and to help the region to get out of this mess, out of this conflict situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president of the eib has said that, in his vision, the eib could become a major player in the third world alongside china. you have now made a number of criticisms of this development cooperation. can you be a little more specific and what do you think of the basic idea that the eib would be a very useful instrument to complement or counter what the chinese are doing in the third world?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in concrete terms, the eib is an important instrument in three areas. i think mr klute's remarks should be incorporated into a strategy for the outside world. it is devastating to see how chinese investors, state investors, increasingly undermine political systems by being represented on the ground with a few bridge-building projects. and if you ask where the european union's contribution is, you get virtually nothing to see. i think you should continue on this course. the second point certainly concerns small and mediumsized enterprises, which are being criminally neglected by the traditional banks, which are only concerned with maximising profits. thirdly, of course, the area of energy transition: you could probably do something about the tailwind - bitter as it is - that is now here in europe because of the reactor disaster in japan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. bluetongue is an animal disease affecting ruminants and has already caused great damage to the entire livestock and production sector. since the outbreak of epidemic waves in several member states in 2000, considerable economic damage has occurred. as always, when there are economic losses, the financial damage is most severe at the bottom of the production chain. the flourishing trade in breeding pigs in particular was affected. exports have been completely halted in some countries despite vaccination. in austria too, we have a long tradition of cattle breeding many farms were affected. we must now use the time to take proactive measures. the disease has not been eradicated and can recur at any time. you have to learn from the experience and be able to offer help quickly. what was true ten years ago is no longer true today. the old bluetongue directive of 2000 needs to be improved and updated. the current vaccination requirements need to be adapted to technological developments in order to combat bluetongue more effectively and to reduce the burden on farmers. the rules at the time were designed to allow the use of so-called attenuated live vaccines, which were the only vaccines available when the directive was adopted 10 years ago. today, vaccines are more advanced. this is a fact which must be observed. i welcome the rapid action of the commission and parliament and i am in favour of the rapid implementation of the new directive. as a farmer's representative, i know how important it is to think in terms of the annual cycle. the rapid adoption of the decision will enable us to have a viable and uniform system in place before autumn, in the interests of the member states and, above all, of growers and farmers. i thank the rapporteur.
in writing. - bluetongue is a common animal disease affecting ruminants and has caused great damage to the entire animal sector. the economic damage and losses caused by the trade shutdown are massively affecting the livestock sector. in austria too, where cattle breeding has a long tradition, many farms were affected. it is now important to put in place supportive measures and to revise the old regulation before the next outbreak occurs. the current vaccination requirements need to be adapted to technological developments in order to combat bluetongue more effectively and to reduce the burden on farmers. i welcome the swift action at eu level and i am in favour of the swift implementation of the new directive. as a farmer's representative, i know how important it is to think in terms of the annual cycle. the rapid adoption of the decision will enable us to have a workable and uniform system in place before autumn, in the interests of the member states and, above all, of the farmers.
in writing. −animal diseases can still be a major source of livelihood loss for farmers. one of these is bluetongue, which has been spreading in northern europe since 2000 and can cause particularly serious damage. cattle and sheep are particularly affected by the disease, which is caused by a virus transmitted by the gnitzes, a species of mosquito. a disease has also been observed in goats, but the course of the disease is much less dramatic than in the other two genera. in 2000, a vaccine option was approved, but it was subject to strict regulations because the untreated animals could also have been infected by the virus. however, there is now a new vaccine option that does not present this risk, so that vaccinations can also be designed more flexibly. i voted for the report because i believe that it is right and proper to protect livestock against disease. the flexibility required will give farmers a chance to protect their animals.
in writing. - in recent years, there have been a number of incidents of bluetongue, particularly in northern europe. it is an animal disease which occurs in ruminants such as cattle, sheep or goats. the consequences were serious for livestock and farmers. i voted in favour of the present report because it advocates the introduction of a new type of vaccine which, unlike the previous version, does not pose any risk of infecting healthy animals.
in writing. - i support the resolution in principle, as it calls for a first step towards nuclear disarmament for the whole of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, the principle of the lowest common denominator prevails, which in the long run certainly cannot be satisfactory. the only correct solution would be a complete nuclear phase-out of the whole of the european union, and as soon as possible. i will do my utmost to ensure that this is the case.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution on nuclear safety in europe was more than necessary. it will cover all the dangers of nuclear energy and hopefully will be a catalyst for a comprehensive rethinking of the use of nuclear energy in europe. the numerous amendments tabled by the green group were necessary to address directly the many dangers and to call for a rapid phase-out of nuclear energy. i am convinced that the risks of nuclear power stations will never be completely controlled by man, so i am in favour of this rapid exit and have also supported the requests in this respect. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is ultimately in that direction.
in writing. - it is high time to rethink the use of nuclear energy in europe! we must start acting now, shut down dangerous reactors and find a way to phase out nuclear energy altogether in the medium term. the misconception that man has control over the dangers of nuclear energy must be abandoned once and for all. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − iceland is already working closely with the eu as a member of the european economic area, the schengen convention and the dublin regulation. the protection of human rights in iceland is also very good. there is a lot of investment in areas such as education, research and development, which is why iceland is well positioned in international comparison. but to be able to speak of iceland joining the eu, it needs the consent of the icelandic people. the eu's propaganda to persuade icelanders to join must be prevented as far as possible. in economic terms, according to the oecd report of may 2010, iceland has achieved consolidation in the economic sector and, despite the financial crisis, per capita income is still among the highest in the world. that's why this project has my vote.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to make it clear that any accession of iceland to the union requires the consent of the icelandic citizens. the decision must be left to the people and must not be influenced further by the eu. as regards the progress report, iceland is in many areas in line with international comparisons and in some cases even in the top: i am thinking of income per capita, education, research and development and respect for human rights. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − in 2001, macedonia was the first western balkan country to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu on 9 april 2001. the reforms since 2001 have been positive in many respects. in the judiciary, legislation has been enacted to ensure both independence from political pressure and efficiency. the improvement in the transparency of the judicial system, in particular the reduction of open cases in most courts, is also welcome. the country's progress towards a functioning market economy is already visible, but much remains to be done. only the name dispute with greece is blocking the country's accession to the eu and hopefully will be settled soon. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. - following the elections in côte d'ivoire, the democratically elected president gbagbo was not prepared to accept his defeat. neither negotiations nor international criticism have borne fruit, so that a crisis of violent clashes has arisen. it is important to maintain international pressure, for example by strongly condemning and imposing sanctions on human rights violations and breaches of international humanitarian law. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. the present resolution, however, deals only with the atrocities committed by the troops of the deposed president gbagbo, but not with the allegations concerning the troops of the newly elected president ouattara. violent acts should not be about who committed them.
in writing. the eu must condemn in the strongest terms the serious human rights violations and acts of violence committed by the elected president gbagbo. if international humanitarian law is still being violated, concrete sanctions are needed. but it is also important that violent acts are punished by both sides, including those accused of the new president outtara. because for victims of violent assault, it doesn't matter who is the source of the violence. in this respect, the resolution is too one-sided for me.
in writing. − the three countries of the south caucasus were originally excluded from the european neighbourhood policy and were only then included in the neighbourhood policy's action range. action plans to deepen bilateral relations are an essential instrument of the european neighbourhood policy, negotiated on a country-by-country basis, since each country is in practice following its own path. the south caucasus region in particular is characterised by a number of conflicts, some of which are considered by experts to be very difficult to resolve. in this context, it is important to keep in mind that the eu's neighbourhood policy does not imply automatic accession (as in the enlargement process). it is more about security and stability. the resolution does not express this enough, which is why i did not vote in favour.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy is an instrument for ensuring stability and promoting peaceful and democratic structures, as well as for deepening bilateral relations in the states surrounding the eu. the south caucasus countries in particular have a lot to do, especially as the region is constantly ravaged by conflict. the european neighbourhood policy, on the other hand, is not, and should not be, a precursor to enlargement policy. i do not have a clear explanation of why i do not support the motion.
in writing. − for years, the eu has been focusing on economic liberalisation in its neighbourhood policy, hoping for positive political spin-offs. the momentum of economic reform has long been undermined by authoritarian regimes through increased state repression. the european union's neighbourhood policy is a key element in the process of achieving a more stable europe. the hopes of the barcelona process seem to be partly being fulfilled in the maghreb countries, but with side effects that the eu did not anticipate and was not prepared for, although they are a frequent side effect of transformation processes. the barcelona process is a positive thing in itself, and i have taken that into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. - in armed conflicts, women and children are very often the real victims. it has long been known that rape and torture are commonplace. the situation is no different in libya and egypt, as reported by foreign journalists affected by the crisis. for example, in egypt, women demonstrators were arrested to verify their virginity, which was also documented. in libya, there were rapes and torture by soldiers. to make matters worse, the women who told their story now face severe retaliation, including defamation suits. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter. i voted for the resolution because the eu cannot turn a blind eye to these atrocities and it is only right to demand that the governments of egypt and libya clarify these cases to the full and hold the perpetrators to account so that we can continue on the road to democracy and freedom.
in writing. − in the wake of the unrest in egypt and libya, international media reports have repeatedly highlighted the tragic attacks and violence against women. torture and rape often go unpunished because the authorities drop the charges or worse, the women themselves are accused of "defamation". here, the roles of perpetrator and victim are reversed in favor of a patriarchal society. the eu cannot stand by and watch, the protection of women and children, and the rule of law for all, need a stronger eu engagement in egypt and libya. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not ai weiwei was -- and this is a very sad truth -- one of the last remaining courageous critics of the chinese leadership. his arrest was undoubtedly not only the culmination of a whole wave of arrests of critics, but also a message to everyone else that not even international celebrity can protect you from being taken back to prison by the chinese or simply disappearing. at the same time, in the human rights dialogue that the european union is conducting with chinese representatives at all levels, our approach is regularly ignored - with a friendly smile, but it is ignored and rejected. the question for us is: what strategy can we use to respond to this? i think we have to respond in our own delegation to china and make it very clear on our next trip to china that we also want to visit these critics, that we want to see them, because otherwise there is no point in continuing this human rights dialogue. you don't want to talk to a rubber wall anymore!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. obviously, it's not enough that the repression of tibetan culture within china has been increasing since the 2008 olympics. the situation has actually worsened since then. no progress has been made. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in tibet and the situation in tibet. we have been witnessing for years that there is enormous pressure on nepal, whether it is on the issue of accepting refugees or on issues such as the right to vote for tibetans. we should be glad that such a thing is guaranteed. the european union must also take action in this area. the chinese leadership is putting pressure on its sister party, and indeed on nepal as a whole, to take action against the tibetans, and nepal is bowing. we must be very concentrated in countering this, including the possible withdrawal of subsidies.
(the president asked alain cadec to reply to the question under the blue card procedure, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question to mr cadec about his initial remarks, namely on the allegedly single seat of the european parliament. mr president, you may have noticed that parliament sometimes meets in brussels, that committees meet in brussels, or that some of the administration is in luxembourg. i just want to point out that it may not be quite what you think.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to apologize for the fact that the members are now leaving the room. but at the same time, there is a vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, and unfortunately the sharing of persons has not yet been invented. mr hökmark has found a good compromise here. but we should also always bear in mind the level of performance we want for the future, on the one hand for the first generation network, on the other for the cable operators and all those interested in spectrum, especially the blue-light organizations. this level of performance must be defined. the data here is firstly about the amount of data, secondly about the time it is transported, the strength with which it is transported, to allow the coexistence here as well, and finally about the priorities that are produced by software. we need a more detailed report for the future so that we can increase the speed of the first generation gsm network considerably. the cable operators already have very high speeds, up to 100 megabits per second, which is very considerable and can be increased in the future. however, we have huge problems with price levels, especially in data roaming. there are member states where you can buy a gigabyte for less than a euro today. i have just checked my phone to see what it costs me: at home a gigabyte costs me one euro, when i am here the gigabyte costs me 9 900 euros, and if i go to another member state it can cost 14 900 euros. this is where we need to act most urgently! i would ask you, commissioner, to ensure that this new decision takes account not only of the range and level of services provided, but also of the price level, so that we can create a common european market which will make it possible to use data services even when you are not in your own member state. we have urgent priorities to deal with here!
i have to say, madam president, europe will only be able to defend its leading role as the world's largest economy if it takes the lead in developing and using new technologies. broadband technology certainly has a special place in this. the new radio frequency policy must ensure that we have large transmission capacities and high transmission speeds. the overall planning and management of frequencies at european level is undoubtedly less appropriate, since the commission also stresses that this can be done well and efficiently in the individual member states. however, a coordinating role would certainly be desirable. i think that despite the high cost, the deployment of fibre optic networks should also be stepped up. the european union is currently lagging behind its competitors, the united states and china. this is probably the result of indecisive policy and too much bureaucracy. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr hökmark, that the timetable for the release of the frequencies should be strictly adhered to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 2010, in northwest pakistan, what was not already destroyed by war and terrorism in some regions was washed away by floods. in addition to the €415 million in emergency aid pledged, the eu now wants to lift tariffs on a number of products. now pakistan will soon receive the long-awaited status of a developing country with special customs benefits. the eu must not, however, give in to the illusion that granting trade preferences could halt the advance of fundamentalist islamists and terrorists in the nuclear state of pakistan. the united states has failed to do so, despite billions in military aid. the west has thus paid dearly for the loyalty of a small and shrinking section of pakistan's political leadership. the us killing of bin laden has also raised a number of sensitive questions. even if the whereabouts of the al-qaida leader wanted by an international arrest warrant were known in pakistan and therefore an extradition order had to be issued, this does not change the fact that the targeted killing violated the sovereignty of pakistan. the west must not abandon its own principles, such as the rule of law. terrorists, dictators and mass murderers must be brought to justice and not liquidated by targeted killing.
the commission has already done so. the present draft is an attack on the european textile industry, so we do not need to talk about it. but let me also bring in a humanitarian aspect: wide-ranging exemptions must be linked to respect for human rights. i am thinking of christian minorities, of women's rights. pakistan's blasphemy law is particularly severe: anyone who insults muhammad is sentenced to death. fundamentalism is spreading across all strata of society in pakistan, even among the students of the prestigious islamic international university. the argument that trade advantages can be used to promote prosperity and combat radicalism is obviously not one you believe in. the eu cannot simply grant trade advantages and ignore or fail to enforce important fundamental rights.
the commission has already done so. there are so many things going on in this agreement, and you have to concentrate a little bit to work out the essentials. for me, these are two things that are immensely important, and both of them can be summed up in the term fairness: the first is fairness for our producers, for our industry. it's been brought up a few times. it is not acceptable that certain restrictions which may be sensible at the outset should be maintained in the long term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because of course india is developing, and that has to be taken into account. i share the views expressed by the members. but it is also about fairness for the people both in the european union and in india. that's important too. and so, in the context of the negotiations, i think it's important to have a clear understanding of the issues that are at stake, and i think that's the key thing to do. above all, these things must be so standardized that there are consequences if they are not followed. i do not mean that in a patronizing way to our indian friends. when it comes to human rights, i can imagine that india, for example, has a better press law than some of the member states of the european union. so you have to look at it the other way around. but these conditions must be binding on both sides, they must be respected, and if they are not respected, there must also be consequences for both sides because of social dumping.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to point out in this context that i understand you very well and that you have done an excellent job as president, but your predecessor was not fair in allowing some colleagues to speak for half a minute or 20 seconds longer than they should have. the commissioner also spoke for 7 minutes and 36 seconds instead of three minutes. it is certainly not fair to keep time at this particular moment, when the speaking time is only one minute. but i understand you and i appreciate your understanding.
i have to say, madam president, the eu and japan together produced more than a quarter of the world's economic output in 2009 and handled over 20% of world trade, so a well-designed free trade agreement with japan is of key importance to the eu. there are synergies to be exploited and common challenges, such as competition with china or securing access to raw materials. but bilateral safeguard clauses in this agreement are also important. i am thinking here of sensitive sectors such as the automotive, electronics, aircraft and mechanical engineering industries. i am sure that in the end japan can and will be a fair and reliable partner. finally, as important as japan is as a trading partner any risk of radioactive contaminated products for european citizens must be prevented.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. perhaps this is an unusual beginning for a speech in the european parliament, but i must admit that i am not sure whether it makes sense to conclude a trade agreement with japan now or at all. there are three points which give rise to my uncertainty. the first question is whether the large number of external trade agreements with very important trading partners is not also undermining our attempt to create a multilateral agreement. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. secondly, i do not feel that japan is really responding to us with its market isolation and its non-tariff barriers. we should have had some movement in advance, otherwise the whole agreement might become a little too one-sided. thirdly, what are the implications? i do not want to say whether it is good or bad for us in the end, but i would perhaps like to know in advance how the effects are assessed in the social field, how it looks in the environmental field or in the field of the labour market. these are things that are not yet fully clear to me. you should have thought about it a little better and done some research. if these points are clarified, it would be appropriate for the commission - some colleagues have already raised this - to consult the european parliament when allocating the mandate. it would avoid many of the difficulties that have arisen in other trade agreements because we were not consulted. i would like to see this approach applied to all future trade agreements.
, in writing. both at wto and oecd level, attempts have been made to create comprehensive multinational regimes for fdi, i.e. foreign direct investment, covering all economic sectors. the legal protection afforded to bilateral investment agreements, known as bits, is essential if the multi-million dollar move abroad is to be undertaken at all. the eu is both a recipient and a sender of fdi. it remains to be seen whether the coordination of the union's 200 or so bits will be able to eliminate the problem of binding bit arbitration awards on the basis of international law, which in some way bind member states in favour of an investor who has brought an eu infringement procedure, and whether this problem can be solved once and for all. direct investment is not the panacea it was advertised to be in the wake of the economic transformation of central and eastern europe, for example. while greater predictability of fdi opportunities for eu investors is welcome, potential negative aspects of investment policy, such as the fear of job losses and wage cuts among the local population due to outsourcing and relocation of production, should not be ignored. the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's white paper on the environment. there is a lack of honesty in pseudo-humanitarian development aid.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask you to allow me to make a very general appeal to my colleagues on the discharge procedure. the budgetary control - and therefore the discharge procedure - is certainly an essential element of parliamentary work, but i think that this discharge procedure is a completely toothless tiger. even in the event of a refusal of discharge, there are no really binding sanctions, the only option remaining is for the president of the european parliament to seek an infringement procedure before the ecj. in the case of the refusal of the discharge for the european parliament, the absurd situation arises that the president of the parliament is to initiate infringement proceedings against himself. there is certainly a need for reform here. the fact that the legal basis of the discharge process has been more geared towards the commission, but that we do discharge each other with other institutions, creates a certain legal uncertainty which we should avoid here. what is left in practice are other political levers that we can put into action. that is not enough for this discharge procedure. that is why i hope, together with my colleagues, that we will seek to reform the discharge process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european agencies are constantly under fire. on the other hand, we rely on them when problems arise almost overnight, requiring, for example, increased frontex operations in the mediterranean or when dioxin is found in animal feed. i would therefore ask all members to exercise a healthy sense of proportion and political foresight in the discharge to be given. in order to find a way out of opinions and assumptions and to be able to get a clear picture of the actual agency services, the operational efficiency of the agencies must be evaluated objectively. i've been working hard on this for some time.
in writing. - i have agreed to postpone the discharge. given the police academy's notorious record of financial mismanagement, a thorough review is imperative. i also regret that the debate on the integration of the training institution into europol, which i believe is a sensible one, has been brought to a halt.
in writing. - i agreed to the discharge. the translation centre was set up in 1994 to meet the challenges of multilingualism in the eu, one of its essential characteristics and a testament to its cultural diversity. the agency shall be self-financed by the payments made by the institutions for services rendered. the court of auditors declared the 2009 annual accounts to be legally and properly drawn up, with due assurance.
in writing. - i agreed to the discharge. the court of auditors was able to confirm the legality and regularity of the 2009 annual report. the centre, which was set up in 1975 to analyse vocational training systems and to provide information for policy, research and practice in this field, is more needed than ever in times of increasingly worrying levels of education and the threat of a shortage of skilled workers. only the remote location in greece, which requires a liaison office in brussels, should be reconsidered.
in writing. - i agreed to the discharge. the court of auditors has declared the 2009 annual accounts with reasonable assurance of legality and regularity and the preparation of a multiannual work programme in 2010 and the launch of an initiative to review its budgetary procedure demonstrate that the agency is complying with the recommendations addressed to it. the content of the agency, set up in 2005, is therefore important - yes, necessary - given that the objectives agreed in 2002 have not been met and the current common fisheries policy is considered a failure. the agency will be indispensable in the near future, given the alarming fact that 88% of fish stocks in the eu are overfished.
in writing. - i agreed to the discharge. the court of auditors declared the 2009 annual accounts to be in order and welcomed the reliability of the accounts. at the same time, i would like to emphasize the call made in this report for a more transparent selection procedure. in view of the responsibilities of the agency and the difficulties in finding qualified staff, it is essential that this requirement be fully taken into account.
in writing. - i abstained. the european centre for disease prevention and control has a very important role to play and has also proven its worthiness by its actions in the fight against the h1n1 pandemic, but i would have expected the discharge to be deferred until the content of the internal audit service (ias) recommendations requested in the report is available the ias has made one very important and seven important recommendations and the centre has presented a plan to implement these recommendations.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report by mr stavrakakis, in which he calls on the court of auditors to undertake a feasibility study of the (operational) young agency. on the basis of the available data, the discharge of the agency was recommended, and the agency had already submitted for examination information requested by the other agencies for the future (for example, a tabular annex with a comparative list of two consecutive annual accounts).
in writing. − i have agreed to the discharge after the court of auditors has declared the presented 2009 annual accounts to be lawful and regular with reasonable assurance. the european environment agency has done important work in recent years in providing independent and reliable information and data on the environment, which is a major concern for a large number of european citizens, as the annual reports of the committee on petitions show. i also welcome the mandate given to the court of auditors in the report to carry out an audit of the agency's viability.
in writing. - in the case of the european food safety authority, i did not follow the recommendation of the rapporteur to give discharge 'on the basis of the data available' 'the apparent shortcomings in the management of the budget are simply too serious'. the ias made 48 recommendations on the management of the grant, 27 of which were even 'critical'. in addition, there are concerns about possible conflicts of interest and lack of transparency.
in writing. - i agreed to the discharge. the 2009 annual accounts were found to be in order. the emcdda has behaved in an exemplary manner in terms of budgetary management. the observatory has already provided a tabular comparison of the financial years 2008 and 2009, not only of the figures (which show a decrease of 2,25% compared to 2008) but also of the measures implemented. in order to ensure full transparency, the emcdda intends to provide the full report of the internal audit service.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency's budget was also cut by 3.8% in 2009. the agency's tasks, which include environmental disasters at sea, are particularly important in view of the state of eu waters. i agreed to the discharge as the shortcomings listed concerned mainly the award of contracts and the staffing review process, while the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the 2009 annual accounts. however, these shortcomings must be addressed in 2010 and the 'very important' ias recommendations must all be implemented in order to justify a 2010 discharge.
in writing. - i didn't agree to the discharge. the deficiencies identified by the internal audit service (ias) are too many and too serious. to name just one: following a review of the contracting by the agency, weaknesses were identified in this area once again. the 18 ias recommendations for improving the agency's performance should be implemented fully and without delay. but after the agency itself rejected 5 of the 18 recommendations, even the will to do so seems to be lacking.
in writing. - i abstained on this point, as i would have preferred a delay in the discharge. this report shows that the annual report on the validation of the human resources was insufficient in terms of planning, allocation and use. furthermore, the concern expressed by the court of auditors about the renewed cancellations and delays in the award of contracts is only partially taken into account if a report on the non-use and planned use of appropriations is requested only for the next year.
in writing. the discharge has been granted. the report noted positively that the 2009 budget provides a true picture of the foundation's financial situation. the budget was reduced by 0,5% compared to 2008. further savings could be found through increased coordination with the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefof). the foundation wants to address the complaint about the lack of transparency in recruitment by means of a thorough examination of the procedure.
in writing. - the discharge has been granted. the agency, which represents both employers and employees and which advises companies on how to achieve better working conditions in a simple and effective way, is struggling with irregularities in the field of contracting and with the budgetary principle of annuality. on the other hand, the agency has already given its assurance that it will pay particular attention to these difficulties and has also ensured maximum transparency by providing the internal audit report.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the discharge for the euratom supply agency, which was entrusted with the task of securing the european union's supply of fissile material (including any stocks). according to this report, there are currently disagreements about the current organisation of the agency and its legal form. the question is also raised whether the agency should be maintained in its present form and organisation. i would have liked to have clarified this question in the light of the current pan-european rethinking of nuclear energy.
in writing. - i abstained on this discharge. the report lists a number of shortcomings, but at the same time it refers to the foundation's commitments to remedy them effectively. this is welcome, but the quality of the shortcomings (recruitment procedures have been found to be inadequate since 2006, the provisional accounts submitted to the court of auditors contained serious errors due to weaknesses in the financial organisation) did not warrant a discharge. qualified staff should undertake a thorough review of the foundation's operations in dublin and, after making the necessary changes, a vote on discharge should be taken.
in writing. - i didn't agree to the discharge. this is largely because, according to the report, of the 26 recommendations issued by the internal audit service in 2008, only 4 have been implemented and 15 of the other recommendations have been due for implementation for more than 12 months. this situation must be remedied immediately before any further discharge can be given.
in writing. - i abstained. the 2009 annual accounts were declared reliable in all material respects. frontex also launched new initiatives to analyse its actions, including their impact, and to enhance transparency and objectivity in the selection of staff. however, the court of auditors had to raise again in 2009 shortcomings that had been pointed out annually since 2006. the failure to address and successfully remedy those shortcomings once again is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against the waiver of the immunity of bruno gollnisch because the reasoning of the legal affairs committee, which recommended the waiver to the plenary, was completely arbitrary. if we have a press release by bruno gollnisch, written by the front national's political bureau, then this activity is of course also seen in the exercise of his eu mandate. the argument that this was done in the exercise of his mandate in the regional parliament is inconclusive, since the eu mandate cannot be seen as part-time employment or the like. if bruno gollnisch had made the same statement in the plenary of the european parliament or in one of its committees, would the argument have been different? the content of the press release which served as the basis for the extradition is also 100% covered by freedom of expression. the fact that extradition is based on politically unfavourable statements is yet another indication of the european parliament's view of genuine democracy.
in writing. - i voted for the report because millions of citizens in the european single market need effective legal means to assert their claims against other citizens or a company. people who exercise their right to travel, live and work within the eu should not in future fall victim to unscrupulous businessmen and other debtors who evade their responsibilities by simply moving their assets to another country. in many cases, creditors are denied the right to enforce the judgment in the internal market, which means that citizens or small businesses lose money and time by being referred to courts in other member states after legal proceedings have already been initiated. in order to ensure effective enforcement, the courts must also be able to order the disclosure and freezing of the debtor's assets in the context of measures of provisional protection. the existing legislation in the european union, which allows for the mutual recognition of national court judgments and crossborder claims, is not sufficient, since citizens and businesses must also have the right to have judgments effectively enforced. this report is an important signal to fraudsters and to the citizens and businesses of the european single market.
in writing. - i have neither granted nor refused discharge to the commission. this is because, on the one hand, the court of auditors was again unable to issue a positive statement of assurance to the commission in 2009, and, on the other hand, the report provides sufficient evidence that this is largely due to the insufficient cooperation of the member states as recipients of funds. however, this situation is not helped by relieving a faulty system. control must be secured before funds are disbursed.
in writing. - regarding paragraph 129 of the report on disclaimer 2009: general budget of the eu parliament concerning the voluntary pension fund, i note that i am clearly against using taxpayers' money to finance members' pension funds (subparagraph (i)). there is nothing to prevent the retirement age for the scheme from being raised from 60 to 63 (paragraph 129 (ii)). agree with the requirement (iii) that fund managers should pursue a more prudent and balanced investment strategy. i am in favour of the retirement of the pension fund system.
in writing. - regarding paragraph 129 of the report on disclaimer 2009: general budget of the eu parliament concerning the voluntary pension fund, i note that i voted clearly against using taxpayers' money to finance meps' pension funds (subparagraph (i)). there is nothing to prevent the retirement age for the scheme from being raised from 60 to 63 (paragraph 129 (ii)). the requirement (paragraph (iii)) that fund managers should pursue a more prudent and balanced investment strategy was agreed. i am in favour of the retirement of the pension fund system.
in writing. - i cannot agree to the discharge for the european parliament because the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg is simply unacceptable to the taxpayer. parliament should have a single seat and not a machine that moves its bags once a month for a week.
in writing. - i have agreed to postpone the decision on the council's discharge for 2009. in the light of the new situation following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the council's continued refusal to submit to a discharge procedure and thus to take account of an obligation of accountability is unacceptable. the expenditure of the council must be monitored in the same way as that of the other union institutions in order to take account of the european transparency initiative.
in writing. - i agreed with the staes report because it again advocates, among other things, the inclusion of the edf in the budget, thus respecting the principles of democratic control, accountability and financial transparency. on the other hand, it has also noted critically some weaknesses, such as those of the court of auditors in public procurement procedures and in various other controls.
in writing. − the european union is known worldwide for helping where help is needed. the dramatic floods and their impact in pakistan in 2010 have again demonstrated this through swift aid payments. the next step envisaged by the commission was to provide economic support to pakistan and to guarantee tariff exemptions for textiles and ethanol. an approach that seems to be very controversial. the fact is, however, that the green light must first be given at wto level. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. − in addition to pledging more than 415 million in emergency aid, the eu is also responding to the flood disaster in pakistan with special trade measures to boost pakistan's exports. the european commission proposed a package of 75 tariff lines covering pakistan's main export sectors in the areas most affected by the floods. pakistan's trade with the union is mainly in textiles and clothing products, which according to the commission represented 73,7% of pakistan's exports to the union in 2009. the eu considers that the granting of these trade preferences is likely to have only limited impact on the internal market and to have no negative impact on the least developed wto members. nevertheless, it is expected that the unilateral removal of the duties will lead to an infringement procedure of the world trade organisation. if pakistan is allowed to join the list of countries which enjoy special customs benefits, i.e. to be included in the so-called 'gsp plus' list, then that will be the end of it. uncoordinated rapid fire is of little use. the textile and clothing industry in particular is in crisis in a number of member states because of the transformation. the negative effects of trade preferences cannot therefore be excluded, which is why i rejected the report.
in writing. - the need to support developing countries, such as pakistan, which is repeatedly hit by floods, is beyond dispute. however, the eu must ensure that certain conditions are met in the partner countries of trade agreements, especially when customs exemptions are introduced. because it is not possible that such exemptions would harm our domestic textile industry, and the eu does not care one bit whether these products were produced by child labour or whether the money received goes directly to supporting terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am thinking of christian minorities and women's rights. the blasphemy law is especially severe: anyone who insults muhammad is sentenced to death. fundamentalism is spreading across all strata of society in pakistan, exacerbated by the death of bin laden. even among the students of the prestigious international islamic university. the argument that trade benefits should be used to promote prosperity and combat radicalism is therefore not valid. the eu cannot simply grant trade advantages while ignoring important fundamental issues. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − since the lisbon treaty, the commission has the exclusive right to negotiate and conclude bilateral investment agreements with third countries. there are currently over 1000 agreements and some 200 are currently under negotiation, led by member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. the first reading of parliament gave a strong signal and called for a solid and secure phase of the transfer of legislation.
in writing. − what has failed at wto and oecd level, namely to shed light on the jungle of bilateral investment agreements, cannot be expected to succeed at eu level. at the higher level, an attempt was made to create comprehensive multinational regimes for fdi, i.e. foreign direct investment, applicable to all sectors of the economy. this will probably be more effective in the long run, but it will depend on the actual design. the problem is that binding bit arbitration awards based on international law may bind member states in a way that could lead to eu infringement proceedings in favour of an investor. there's still no solution for that. the report also failed to take into account potential negative aspects of investment policy, such as the fear of job losses and wage cuts by the local population due to outsourcing and relocation of production. and direct investment is far from the miracle cure it is being touted as. some developing countries have had to learn this the hard way. i have rejected this report for the reasons i have given.
in writing. − supporting macrofinancial assistance to georgia, which has been hit hard by the economic crisis. the funds the eu pledges are clearly defined and will go to the right areas. this financial assistance, together with that of the imf, will contribute to the stabilisation of the state budget and will have a positive impact on the good relations between georgia and the eu.
in writing. − following the armed conflict with russia in 2008 and the impact of the global financial crisis, georgia is facing serious financial problems. already in january this year, the eu agreed a €46 million aid package for georgia, of which €23 million will be paid as a loan and another €23 million as a grant to the country. the €46 million is part of an eu financial assistance package of around €500 million agreed by the eu in october 2008. this second tranche of eu macro-financial assistance, the first of which was implemented in 2009-10, is designed to help georgia meet its external financing needs and is subject to strict conditionality. the first signs of success are already apparent in the fact that real gdp growth in 2010 was 6.3%, reflecting a recovery in economic activity. however, there are signs that the money is not being used efficiently enough. however, this is unacceptable in view of the budgetary situation in the vast majority of eu countries. i am in favour of financial support in principle, but i abstained from voting in the final vote.
i have to say, madam president, i think that the discussion on the reintroduction of border controls and the modification of the schengen mechanism is absolutely excessive and unnecessary. we have this debate because berlusconi and sarkozy thought in nationalist terms and acted in populist terms when they threatened to re-establish control of the borders between the member states because of the migrants from north africa. i was also surprised, and i must say this quite frankly, at the speed with which commission president barroso took up the debate instead of acting as a european corrective. schengen is a great achievement, schengen is a european symbol and it combines in an ideal way freedom of movement, open borders and security. schengen must never be called into question! in particular, we have already the possibility of reintroducing controls on a temporary and regional basis in cases of serious threats to internal security. so what we do not need is a discussion about schengen. what we need is a discussion on measures to strengthen frontex so that we can optimally secure the external borders of the european union and guarantee freedom of movement, a discussion on rapid asylum procedures and managed migration, on cooperation to combat the causes of migration, on readmission agreements. i am happy to follow the proposals of commissioner malmström, who has made very broad proposals here, and i invite the commission to follow parliament and not some representatives of the council.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that it has been made clear here in this house by all sides, including the european people's party, of which mr sarkozy and mr berlusconi are members, that we do not need new rules, that we do not need to change the schengen agreement, but that we need something else, namely a common migration and asylum policy that deserves the name. and, mrs malmström, i am asking you to take action here, to make it clear that the dublin ii agreement must be amended to allow for genuine european solidarity on asylum issues, and to make it clear that this is a common continent and that we must not leave those countries with external borders alone. but watch out! italy can and must take responsibility for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the situation in the former yugoslavia. we need a protective shield for refugees - not just for money and banks - in this europe, and that is why we do not need a new schengen system, but a real europe and a humane policy on asylum and migration.
i have to say, madam president, of the tunisian refugees hosted in lampedusa, only about 3 000 are said to be genuine asylum seekers, 20 000 or more are economic refugees. until the union finally admits that it cannot take in all economic migrants from all the countries, hundreds of thousands will continue to make their way. if measures are taken, such as mass amnesties of illegal immigrants or the breach of the schengen treaty, as has recently been the case with tourist visas, this will inevitably lead to tens of thousands more refugees. this also threatens the failure of the schengen system as a whole. greece, italy and malta are clearly not in a position to secure the eu's external borders, and schengen newcomers often falter in their efforts after being admitted. the eu's external border is therefore as porous as swiss cheese and is undermined from within. temporary controls are not enough. the eu must indeed develop frontex into a border protection agency. and if all this is of no avail, surely one or another country will have the idea of withdrawing from the schengen treaty.
madam president, i would like to ask you, mr president, what you think of the legislative footprint approach and what it means in your view that the transparency register will continue to be non-binding, that is to say that there will continue to be very large loopholes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that not only the european parliament but the european union as a whole is suffering from a massive credibility problem. if parliament, even though mr haefner may not like to hear it, and no doubt also under the pressure of the recent lobbying scandals, has finally managed to reach an agreement on this transparency register, then in my view it is only to reach an agreement that is toothless. i think that a voluntary register is a mere blind-fold and will not lead to more transparency, especially if the council of ministers is not involved, that is, if not all the institutions which are important for legislation are involved. even if he did, there'd still be plenty of loopholes left. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. who sits on these advisory boards that meet behind closed doors seems to be a closely guarded secret. in any case, i believe that not only all activities for business or international groups must be recorded, but also paid lobbying for interest groups such as chambers and trade unions. the citizens have a right to real transparency in this respect too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. oh, with the inner compass, it's one thing. i think it's about the independence of the members of parliament. and of course, lobbying becomes problematic when you try to twist a belief with any arguments, especially if they're unfair. the fact is that even now only 2 800 of the 20 000 lobbyists in brussels are registered with the lobby register. the fact is that we have far too few opportunities for qualified expertise here in the house; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we've achieved a small milestone with this transparency registry, but it's a warm-up to washington d.c., where the lobbying on disclosure act has been around for a long time. it works much better than anything we have here. i am in favour of us not only getting a legislative footprint as soon as possible, but also getting a legislative fingerprint, which means that we make public on our own, which lobbyists we are in contact with at all, what we do with them. i've -- and i'd like to encourage you to check this out -- i've set up a lobbying ticker on my website where every lobbying contact is recorded, whether i'm working on a legislative initiative or not.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, lobbying is a key instrument for citizens' participation in political life, and it is therefore important to prevent abuse. we therefore urgently need a register of transparency for all the institutions, not just for parliament and the commission, but also for the council, because that is where the real decisions are taken. again, registration is mandatory, not just for entry to parliament, because lobbyists certainly don't just look for contacts in the parliament building, but rather in restaurants, cocktail lounges or fitness centers. let me also say a word about transparency in the political parties. even if they are one-man parties and they act as one-man companies and act as the cleaners of europe, these parties and individuals must show transparency. they are to be transparent about their assets, their claims to public authorities and the reimbursement of campaign expenses, that is, about the actual reimbursement they received from their public authorities in their countries during the campaign. these costs should also be transparently demonstrated accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you to colleague leinen. he said something about stress tests. my question is: there must be a consequence for the stress tests. do you think it would be possible to have a european regulator in this area, which would take care of these things and then also have the right to take dangerous nuclear power stations off the grid?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the consequences of chernobyl in the immediate circle are well known to all of us. i would like to ask a question, because our citizens also expect us to learn from such events. the commission is certainly aware of the consequences of chernobyl and now fukushima for the european population, both in terms of health risks and financial consequences. what measures are being taken to protect the european population in the event of a new disaster? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. for example, isar i, which is of the fukushima type and is located in the approach lane of munich airport, or krško, which is located in an earthquake-prone zone anyway.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you for the detailed reply to my parliamentary question on the stress tests on irish banks of 8 february. we've all made it clear here today: credibility builds trust. and earnestness, sincerity, and determination can help to overcome the crisis of trust. so i have to say, i'm missing the last stress test, the adequate evaluation of this test. the consequences are unknown, the conclusions you have hinted at today, and the consequences of the next test are still too unclear for me. i have three questions. the first is: how can you guarantee, commissioner, that this time the focus is on the long term and not on the short term as was the case with the irish banks last time? secondly, we are witnessing a worsening of the european sovereign debt crisis right before our eyes, and mr giegold has mentioned this. however, this tightening is only examined in the banks' trading books in the current stress tests. however, the securities held by the banks until maturity are recorded in the bank book. the bank book is not included in the stress tests. how do you justify this difference? thirdly, does this not again give the impression that the long-term viability of banks is guaranteed, because our main problem - the sovereign debt crisis - is not sufficiently highlighted?
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the commissioner, it is not only in the banking sector that there are regulations that do not work, but unfortunately also in the environmental sector. we have a 2006 waste shipment regulation, but it is not working because there is an increase in the shipment of hazardous waste across eu borders, especially to developing countries where there is no guarantee of proper disposal of this hazardous waste. this improper disposal causes environmental and health problems, which in extreme cases cause the death of many people. but we in the community are also losing valuable resources. part of our 2020 strategy is the resource strategy, and waste is one of our resources. we should strive to improve our research efforts in this area so that we can achieve the elimination of valuable substances at the end of the product life cycle. your colleague, commissioner potočnik, announced in a speech on 7 april this year - after the commission had actually put off this problem for a very long time and done nothing - that he would present a communication this autumn addressing these problems, in particular implementation and an improved inspection system and of course dissemination of the knowledge base. i would like to know, commissioner, whether we can assume that the commission is already preparing this communication. commissioner potočnik has also spoken of an agency in other speeches. we have a lot of them already, but it is obvious that he is also thinking about this area in order to strengthen the control possibilities of the member state authorities. i would like to know where we are at this point, because we are finding that we are unable to solve these problems at the moment. what steps does the commission intend to take in this area?
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to say something. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the middle east, and we are convinced that the peace process in the middle east is a success. but we could also take an example from a similar policy area where it is actually working quite well, namely foreign trade policy. in foreign trade policy, the european union has the sole responsibility, is the sole actor and the sole representative of the member states and is not constantly discouraged by various vanities. we may disagree in other areas, but here we are strong and united. it is time to use this strength to ensure that the people living in our partner countries also benefit from the values we have benefited from: human rights, social security, justice, freedom. this new dimension of european foreign policy is something we should pursue, something we must pursue if we are to make the world a freer, fairer and more social place in the future.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the current events in syria are a further reminder of the dilemma facing the european union in relation to the middle east and the events in north africa. for years, arab despots and dictators have been courted, and now that assad is brutalising his own people, we are naturally obliged to condemn this, and there are half-hearted sanctions. i think credibility looks different. democracy and human rights have never been much more than empty words in the arab world. it was obviously intended to conceal the fact that brussels had to give priority to the european union's geopolitical interests in this region. the european union's helplessness in the face of the whole of the developments in the southern mediterranean is particularly worrying. we celebrated democracy when the uprisings, the revolts, started. and what do we have in tunisia now? at best chaotic conditions, where the transitional government is already about to be overthrown; in egypt, something like a military or temporary military dictatorship, where coptic christians are persecuted; the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the libyan crisis has been a civil war in which europeans are intervening half-heartedly, half-means and split. but syria is perhaps a nut that the americans could bite their teeth into now. president assad probably doesn't even have to worry that the military will renounce its loyalty to him under external pressure. and there is no protecting power that can bring him down. in any case, a change of power in damascus would certainly have profound consequences for the whole region. and the first syrian refugees arriving in turkey may just be the forerunners of a big wave of refugees. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the disease. unlike the americans, europe is directly affected by the geographical proximity. we must not allow ourselves to be drawn deeper into the libyan civil war, lest we become the target of terrorism and extremism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr albertini, very warmly, as the shadow rapporteur, for his very good cooperation in this report. we have rightly focused our attention in this report, and of course in this debate, on the south and the middle east. i do not want to repeat what mr schulz, mrs de keyser and others have said, but i would like to speak briefly again about the situation in palestine and israel. i see a great opportunity in the unity between hamas and fatah and also in the willingness to establish a state. because with the founding of a state comes also an obligation, also comes responsibility. we must make that clear. there must be recognition of israel! there must be peace! we must renounce violence! (applause from the centre) this is absolutely important. but israel must also recognize a palestinian state, just as hamas must recognize the state of israel. only if we get this two-state solution can we achieve peace in the middle east. i would like to turn my attention not only to the south but also to the east, because i was able to lead a parliament delegation to turkmenistan and because i was appointed yesterday as parliament's rapporteur on russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. turkey also plays a major role in this. we should not see turkey only from the perspective of accession - yes or no. turkey must be a partner - especially in view of the situation in the mediterranean, but also in view of the situation in the black sea region - and it is important to strengthen contacts with turkey and to involve turkey in a common european foreign and security policy. this is not necessarily connected with the question of accession. secondly, the partnership with russia is a very important aspect. we want a partnership with russia, but we must conduct these negotiations from a position of strength and with self-confidence. that 's what we 're missing sometimes . while russia has too much of it, we have too little. and only if we're on the same page can we come to an agreement. as much as i am in favour of this partnership and it must become a strategic partnership , i am surprised by the new pressure that russia is exerting most recently in ukraine. there were friends who were in power in russia and ukraine at the time, it would have been said earlier, but the way russia is behaving towards ukraine now, that's not very fair! we have seen this in turkmenistan. so we have to make it clear to russia: yes, we want a partnership based on equality, based on common interests. it must certainly be our aim to achieve a real partnership. on central asia, mrs ashton: we want to be involved, but we have no representation there. i know there's financial problems, too. we need diplomatic representation there as soon as possible. we want energy from these countries. we want these countries to develop further towards democracy. we want these countries to respect human rights. but we're not really doing enough. mr. pierre morel is an excellent man, he does a great job. but that is not enough, we need to establish more representations in these countries in central asia in particular. these are our neighbors. because either these countries are looking only at china or russia, or they have at least a chance to look at europe as well. i think this is important. in conclusion, let me say again that we want to give you our full support. what you said today is absolutely right. we in this parliament would like you to say it a little louder and more directly - even if that is not always your way - and we would support you even more than we do without it.
madam president, i should like to say this to the vice-president/high representative: i appreciate very much what you said in your first speech on your policy and what you have been doing with north africa – egypt, tunisia, libya – and especially the focus you put on the young people and women there, and your approach to deep democracy that has to be rooted. i think that is essential, and all of us here in this house share that view with you, so i hope this will be successful. on the other hand i agree with many of my colleagues that assad should have been included in the sanctions. as my colleague danny cohn-bendit asked you, who is the one – or who are the ones – who blocked it in the council? is it mr westerwelle or who? tell us, and you will find support from us if you are transparent and open with us. i think that will get support for you. explore your mandate. you will have more support here from us if you tell us more about what is going on in the council. go ahead and tell us. i think that is true for coherence as well, as you and so many others here have said. in the albertini report that we will be voting on this week, we also call for the national policies to be supportive of the eu positions and of you, and i call on my colleagues here in the european parliament, those of you who are from government parties in your own countries: tell your foreign ministers and your prime ministers to support the common european policy and not just look into your own domestic interests, including in foreign policy, otherwise we will never get a common european foreign policy for which we need you, baroness ashton, to lead, to be ambitious and to be bold in your commitments. 61 years after the schuman declaration, which we celebrated two days ago, we need more europe than ever. what we want is very concrete: conflict prevention and civilian crisis management, lady ashton. we demand that in the external action service we have independent impact assessments as a standard procedure for the qualitative evaluation of the security, human rights, gender, social and economic effects of each csdp mission and we need more civilian personnel in these missions as well. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, with regard to my colleague’s remark, the death of osama bin laden was not a death penalty. what took place was a killing, and i personally would have preferred it if the united states had apprehended him and taken him to court. however, that is not meant to be a criticism of her. what she is saying that mr barroso stated was not hypocrisy. it was a statement that was made. i might be critical of it and, as i said, i would have been more in favour of having osama bin laden tried in an international criminal court, for example, but that has not happened. however, i do not attach any hypocrisy to this because we need a common european position. on the death penalty, i think things are clear in this continent at least – although not in other parts of the world, unfortunately.
mr president, i want to support that because it must have been a mistake, either in our voting lists or in our voting procedure, but there was such unanimity in supporting it that it would be very strange if it were not included. i think the house would agree with the proposal by mr goebbels and mr albertini to vote on it as an addition or as a separate paragraph.
in writing. - i have agreed to the reports by mr karim. the ten reports of the legal affairs committee are limited to the codification of various legal acts, as the legal service has unanimously noted. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. - consumers are becoming more and more aware of the goods they buy. the origin of the products they buy is a major factor in most people's decision-making about where to spend their money. in the textile sector in particular, there is still a great need for information so that the consumer knows where sweaters, jackets, trousers and the like come from and what materials they are made of. the obligation to expel is still very fragmented. there should also be clearer labelling when animal products are used in a product, particularly for fur or fur coats. i voted for the report because it is a matter of detailed and urgently needed information for the individual citizen who has the right to know where his textiles come from and what material they are made of.
in writing. - i have approved the report on the labelling and designation of textile products. the proposed revision of eu legislation is essentially technical in nature, without major political implications, but the simplifications achieved will help to foster innovation in the sector. the compromise reached by several groups in the european parliament also takes account of the problems of counterfeiting in the european textile sector and promotes transparent and coherent trade rules in the interests of consumer protection.
in writing. − in order to boost the economies of the western balkan countries, they were granted privileged access to the european market. this applies to almost all products originating in the countries participating in or associated with the eu's stabilisation and association process. the trade preference was granted until 31.12.2010 and concerns the following countries: bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo. this preference shall continue to apply to products originating in albania, croatia, macedonia and montenegro. if the trade preferences were to expire, further economic growth in the countries concerned would be jeopardised. i did not vote for the report because, as has been said, the new regulation is not yet clearly worded on some points.
in writing. - not only the european parliament, but the whole eu structure suffers from a massive credibility problem. if parliament has finally managed to reach an agreement on the transparency register - and this is probably also due to the pressure of the recent lobbying scandals - it is a toothless one. not only all activities for business or international groups must be recorded, but also paid lobbying for interest groups such as chambers and trade unions. the citizens have a right to transparency, and they must also keep the legal representatives alive with their compulsory contributions. full disclosure must include not only salaries, but also fees, dinner invitations and so on. the measures are a first step in the right direction and i have therefore agreed to them.
in writing. − a voluntary register is a simple eye-wash and will not lead to more transparency. the council of ministers is not involved, so not even all the institutions which are important for legislation are present. and even if he does, there's still plenty of loopholes left. there are supposedly 1350 expert circles working on official commission papers. the fact that the european parliament has been consulted on this matter seems to be a well-kept secret. the commission is now paying more attention to the activities of former commissioners shortly after they leave brussels, but is there a reverse check? just think of the recent shift from the music industry association to the copyright office. the measures are a first step in the right direction and i have therefore agreed to them.
in writing. − transparency is an important part of democracy and a prerequisite for citizens' participation and thus essential for their trust. in addition, the accountability resulting from the transparency requirements is an effective preventive instrument against any kind of abuse. the draft agreement on the establishment of a 'transparency register' which was submitted takes account of all the essential requirements and was therefore approved as a whole. the next step must be to pursue the objective of this new register consistently and to deal with newly emerging difficulties in this original sense, directly and effectively.
in writing. − citizens' confidence in the stability of the financial system may be strengthened by corporate governance, with markets themselves reacting in part through their own mechanisms, with the role of rating agencies not to be underestimated. it is absolutely incomprehensible that the public should tighten their belts to complain about the bank rescue package, and then the bank managers, who have been shouting for help, pay themselves millions of bonuses. this foreseeable development was not adequately addressed in the course of the bank rescue. at the same time, however, many small and mediumsized enterprises, which on paper always praise the eu as the engine of the economy, were dealt a death blow, as banks preferred to hoard their money rather than pay out loans, for example on the basis of the basel agreements. the banking crisis has also clearly demonstrated the failure of the self-regulating market. the asian crisis has already shown that regulation is useful. the extent to which the new monitoring and supervision possibilities introduced in the meantime will be effective remains to be seen. there is a series of malfunctions, a glaring lack of ethics, morality and decency and conflicts of interest. the report is moving in the right direction, but it is becoming too vague in some respects, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis revealed above all a deeply greedy system. the financial sector has not been focused solely on short-term profits, but has undermined efforts to achieve sustainable growth. the report covers important lessons to be learned from the financial crisis in terms of risk, management, supervisors, shareholders and remuneration. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the negotiations on an eu-india trade agreement are progressing constructively. the european parliament has today defined its priorities by adopting the motion for a resolution. in agriculture, parliament pointed to sensitive areas, addressed sanitary and phytosanitary (sps) measures and advocated effective safeguard clauses. however, there is still progress to be made in the area of intellectual property.
in writing. − european forestry is more sustainable than any other sector of the economy, and european forest owners have been adhering to the strictest forestry and nature protection laws for generations. the report on the green paper on forest protection and forest information presented by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, however, reveals an unbridled regulatory frenzy without recognizing the importance of the forest as a source of jobs and an economic engine. the eu's forest management sustainability criteria are exaggeratedly demanded without regard to regionalism and national competence. the essential points which go beyond the competence of national forestry policy and weaken the economic factor concern above all provisions for wood supplies within europe - the term 'sustainability' is still not defined. another point i reject is the assumption that wood biomass is not sustainable. i believe that the multifaceted protection and use of the forest should be highlighted and not acted on by one side. the eu should do more to ensure that sustainable forest management practices in europe serve as a model for other countries.
in writing. − the loss of forests across europe is both an ecological problem in terms of habitat and climate and an economic problem. after all, five million workers and entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners generate an annual turnover of 300 billion euros. the current environmental conditions are changing europe's forests. for example, beech trees are expected to disappear completely from the mediterranean area à la longue and coniferous forests throughout continental europe to decline. in addition, there is a new form of pest infestation, the effects of which cannot yet be estimated, and a significant increase in the risk of forest fires. icp forests and the eu operate one of the world's largest biomonitoring networks to quantify these changes and to help understand the cause and effect relationships. i have abstained because i think the report proposes insufficient measures in relation to the question of the extent to which the individual member states are held responsible and to what extent they are involved.
in writing. - i am in favour of a common european foreign and defence policy, with the word 'european' being of the utmost importance. europe must not only emancipated itself from the united states economically but also in foreign policy and become more independent if it is to be perceived in the world as an independent and strong actor. the report does not, however, show any sign of this, but rather advocates and defines the need to link up with the united states, particularly through nato. some people feel that it should be even more so. however, this is highly counterproductive for the future of the eu and makes it difficult to agree on a common european line or stance on important issues, as was seen in the example of the libyan crisis. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i have approved the report. to strengthen the eu's influence at global level, and thus indirectly the influence of individual member states, there is a continuing need for the vision and will to enhance cooperation and coordination between levels. in order to ensure that the ead can live up to its founding ideals, its work must not be unnecessarily hampered. i also agreed to the amendment which also calls on the high representative to make full use of her powers. the active cooperation of both sides is needed to make the ead now in existence a success. as a member of the committee on budgets and a strong advocate of maximum transparency, i naturally also supported the amendment calling for a separate budget line for each mission.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the eu must strengthen its autonomy and expand its dialogue with third countries. it must speak with a strong and unified voice and react much more quickly to be a trusted and reliable partner.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to thank the commissioner for his work in the field of prevention. i would have expected and hoped for this use in connection with the question of cloned material. we have spent some very intensive hours together and i see myself as representing the europeans who have clearly wanted and pushed for the position taken by parliament. we wanted, together with 500 million europeans, a clear labelling system as a minimum solution, and in reality we would like to see a ban on cloned animals, on products from cloned animals, regardless of generation. we were hoping for your support, commissioner. we did not understand why the council was not on our side, because the council is also made up of elected representatives of their member states, but they have obviously served the market and not the people. we hope that in the future you will see people at the centre of your decisions and not the market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to ask mr balčytis what he thought of the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme, because he mentioned that the financial situation here has become very precarious, especially during the crisis. i have heard that the commission is planning to restrict this programme. do you not think it would be more sensible, especially in the face of the financial crisis, to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises here have a chance to explore new business areas?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the facilitation of business creation by the small business act is particularly positive, both in terms of time and financial costs. i also welcome the commitment of the public sector to pay invoices within 30 days. however, some bureaucratic hurdles remain, such as cash flow. the extent to which the basel criteria can put smes in serious credit crunch must be examined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. in the future, this form of company could become more important than the european joint stock company in terms of cost-benefit. i am thinking of subsidiaries and headquarters throughout europe. in conclusion, i would like to say that the approach of facilitating access for smes to china and other asian markets should be continued.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike my colleagues who have overrun their time - and the budget too - i shall try to be brief. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the 50% tax rate on a high standard of living and high social benefits is no coincidence. this means that citizens contribute a great deal and contribute a great deal. solidarity, which we have spoken of many times today, also means solidarity with our own citizens in our own countries. sweden was mentioned today: it was not the eu that intervened with financial aid; structural adjustments were made, social cuts were made, public benefits were reduced - a strict fiscal policy was followed. we must also say this to the countries which are obviously the subject today: without a strict fiscal policy and strong own resources, we will probably not succeed.
, in writing. one thing is clear to all of us: the economic and financial crisis is still omnipresent and the issues are many. the eu's response to the crisis is beyond question. a few thoughts on the stress tests of banks: 91 major european banks were examined, 7 failed. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the basis of the information it has received from the member states. the recent stress tests have taken account of the hard core capital ratio, but the liquidity criteria should also be taken into account. the publication of these results is of course in the interests of transparency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the eu there are four agencies in the field of employment, working conditions and vocational training eurofound, etf, osha and cedefop with an annual budget of around eur 15 to 20 million. i looked at the homepages of these four agencies. the focus is on activities such as a photo competition on risk prevention, a competition for practical solutions - whatever that is - or the co-organisation of the european day of solidarity between generations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the agencies' areas of expertise overlap. they overlap between agencies, but they also overlap with commission directorates and they overlap with parliament's specialised departments and national bodies. of course, this cannot go on. the duplication of work must be avoided by merging. inefficient agencies must be closed down, because the taxpayer will certainly not understand if millions are wasted on photo competitions in the agency jungle.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we follow the development of agencies in europe, we must gradually come to the conclusion that we are suffering from agencyitis. there is no other area where four agencies work in parallel, otherwise one agency does the job. if you look at it this way, you get the impression that every country simply wants an agency. it can't be! we should not just be discussing whether there is a merger, but rather what tasks the commission can perform itself and whether an agency is even necessary. that means we should also gradually start thinking about which agencies we can close. i would like to ask the honourable member who has spoken twice: where are the concrete measures of efficiency? what have the agencies actually done for jobs? where is the revenue that requires them to continue to be supported with 90 million euros a year? if i know the answer to these questions, i will support the further development of such agencies. otherwise, i ask you to close it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are facing major societal challenges: the economic crisis, the ageing of the population, the scarcity of our resources and the need to compete internationally. the more important innovation is that which confronts these problems with creative ideas and solutions. it is not just a question of bringing in technical innovation, but also innovation in social policy. for example, to tackle population ageing, we need to consider, on the one hand, so-called traditional innovations such as new medicines, and, on the other, innovative models of society, pensions and health care. the challenge is to create an environment today that fosters the innovation of tomorrow: investing in research and development, protecting intellectual property, particularly in patent law, and promoting creative skills in school. i would like to conclude by mentioning a particular problem with the management of our resources. in principle, innovation should be used to make a product last longer. it's good for the consumer and good for the environment. unfortunately, there are also innovations that do the opposite. weaknesses are deliberately built into products to shorten their life and increase consumption, such as laptops and smartphones. this practice must be combated in the context of the innovation union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the key challenges for the innovation union include tackling the ageing population and sustaining health systems. in order to achieve sustainable system stability, these must be seen and discussed in their full context. and it is only in these systemic contexts that successful solutions can be found. by 2050, the ratio of eu citizens of working age to those over 65 will have decreased from 4:1 to 2:1. the increase in pension and health care expenditure is therefore certain. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. successful approaches cannot avoid the deficits in education and labour market policies. investment and adjustments in education policy are inevitable to counter a situation where a significant number of jobs in our highly specialised industry cannot be filled, while an almost equal number of low-skilled people of working age are dependent on social benefits. and in labour market policy we will have to reconcile family and equality policies, rather than formulate them as opposites.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the house, ladies and gentlemen of the gallery, it is a great honour for me to be able to speak here for the first time as a new member, not so young anymore. i would like to define the flagship youth on the move initiative of the europe 2020 programme as an excellent objective for maximising the entry of young people into the labour market with two priorities: in addition to early childhood education, it aims firstly at reducing the school drop-out rate and secondly at increasing the number of university graduates. not least because of the setbacks of the economic crisis, but also because of structural deficiencies in several countries - almost all of us - in other areas, the eu member states have completely different conditions. let me give you an example from my own country: austria has only 8.7% of school drop-outs, compared with the eu average of about 14%, and it would certainly be worthwhile to study the dual system of vocational training in austria, which is supported by the social partners. germany is also very successful in this area. let's use that as a benchmark. however, austria itself should aim to approach a benchmark when it comes to the unsatisfactory number of highly qualified university graduates. in other countries there are far more qualified academics and their systems should be studied. we can learn a lot from each other here. the committee is an excellent example of the need for action we need to bridge the gap between education and the labour market now, quickly and efficiently. i would also like to thank mrs doris pack and support her in saying that sarajevo as a cultural capital is not an exception but an obligation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first three years of a child's life are crucial for brain development and language acquisition. and without a certain level of language, it is hardly possible to continue learning, because language deficits are difficult to make up as one ages. the report finds that most migrant children in the eu are educated without sufficient language skills. at the same time, it is explained that migrant families and minorities such as roma have much less access to early childhood education than other families. it can't be that the standard of our schools keeps falling because many, many children simply don't understand the lessons. this means that every child, whether migrant or not, has to master the local language to the point of being able to follow the lessons.
mr president, when referring to youth on the move we are talking about money, but first of all we are talking about the future. innovation, creativity, employability are topics that are really important for all of us in the european union. it is good that the commission has focused on this crucial moment of entering into the labour market, which is exactly what i would like to focus on too. young people are confronted with the sad reality, with the bad working conditions of internships today, even with exploitation. and of course there is the stigma, when entering into the labour market, of wondering ‘am i really needed?’ when there are such high unemployment rates. that really is my huge topic right now, so i urge the commissioner to please keep on track and focus also on the future, to create something like a statute for internships which establishes rules against exploitation ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − the impact of the global economic crisis has been dramatic, especially for young people, globally but also within the eu. youth unemployment in the eu has reached a high of 21%. to make matters worse, 15% of young people have left school early and are therefore unqualified for the labour market. the eu has set itself the target of reducing this share to 10% by 2020 and increasing the share of people with a higher education from 31% to 40%. to achieve these objectives, there must be eu-wide recognition of training and qualifications. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a european framework for cooperation with third countries in the field of education and training. this will require the removal of existing barriers and the simplification of procedures, as well as the extension and support of existing programmes. i have abstained because i do not think there is any discussion of how to recognize qualifications obtained by qualitatively different methods of training. this is particularly true of teaching, where there are no uniform standards for the measurement of qualifications across europe.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has had a particularly serious impact on young people: youth unemployment and school drop-outs have risen sharply. young people often find themselves in a situation without prospects. an important issue in this context is to increase the mobility of young people in the eu to find better opportunities in another labour market, depending on the needs. the basis for this is the mutual recognition of qualifications and training. i have abstained on this report because it does not offer any concrete solutions to the question of how to achieve mutual recognition of states, even though in many areas training methods are used in very different ways.
in writing. − promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth necessarily implies the best possible training opportunities and opportunities. mobility during the years of training, made possible by eu programmes such as erasmus, leonardo da vinci and comenius, promotes not only aspects of formal education but also personal and social development. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the resolution tabled by socialist mep mary honeyball (uk) seeks to limit the role of a child's father and mother to that of equal partners in the public education system. it states (in paragraph 14): '[the european parliament] stresses that mothers and fathers have the status of equal partners in the context of early childhood development and care; the commission this is an expression of deep distrust of the family and the universally recognized right of parents to care for and educate their children. this is in direct contradiction with the german basic law, which states that 'the care and education of children is the natural right of parents and the duty incumbent on them' (article 6 (2)). the report is an expression of the eu's anti-family agenda and seeks to interfere with the social competences of the nation states. the proposal also recommends the introduction of a compulsory pre-school year and the expansion and improvement of early childhood education facilities. the eu's 'barcelona targets' are confirmed, with quotas for the nationalization of children, as was the case in the soviet union. the best interests of the child are not at the heart of the application. the freedom of choice of parents in child rearing is to be undermined. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the first three years of a child's life are crucial for brain development and language learning. language acquisition is the basis for logical thinking and understanding relationships. without a certain level of language, further learning is hardly possible. because the language deficits are difficult to make up as we age. the report finds that most migrant children in the eu are educated without sufficient language skills! at the same time, the report explains that migrant families (as well as minorities such as the roma) make much less use of early childhood education than other families! it is not possible that the standard of our schools continues to decline because many students simply do not understand the lessons! every child, whether migrant or not, must master the local language by the time they enter school to the extent that they can follow the lessons! the report does not offer any sensible solutions. it is more in the direction of total parental authority and nationalization of child rearing. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the rapporteur has rightly taken the needs of the child as the starting point for the report. not surprisingly, the report concludes that a european solution is impossible. however, an eu-level 'framework' is needed to coordinate early childhood support with other eu-level programmes, such as 'lifelong learning'.
in writing. - until now, innovation has been mainly projected onto the research sector. however, it should not be forgotten that innovation can come from any eu citizen. these often just ideas should be promoted at eu level, including through easier access to finance, simplified licensing procedures and cheap and simple patents. this allows citizens to influence and shape a sustainable society. moreover, such innovations, if they are to remain focused on research, would help to maintain the level of prosperity in europe. i voted for the report because it is a positive development to allow individual citizens to participate in shaping society. the signs of the electronic age are also pointing more and more towards personal innovation, which is quite remarkable.
in writing. − the ilo is a specialised agency of the united nations and promotes social justice and human and labour rights. the main task of the ilo is to establish international labour and social standards. 2010 was the year of the domestic worker for the ilo. so minimum standards have now been set because domestic workers are the largest unregulated sector in the world.
in writing. −antibiotics were long considered to be 'wonder drugs' to cure infectious diseases. in most european countries, antibiotics are the most commonly used class of medication after painkillers. about 50% of antibiotics prescribed in europe are used in veterinary medicine. without the use of antibiotics, animal diseases and illnesses could spread rapidly and epidemically, causing enormous economic damage. unfortunately, the uncontrolled use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine is taking a very heavy toll. overuse of antibiotics leads to resistance and adaptation of pathogens. many of the old antibiotics have become either ineffective or less reliable. i therefore strongly supported the european parliament's resolution calling on the commission and the member states to take a responsible approach to the growing problem of antibiotic resistance in animals.
in writing. −antibiotics are naturally produced metabolites of fungi or bacteria used to fight bacterial infections. they are given preventive feeding, among other things. resistance means that they have lost the ability to kill bacteria or inhibit their growth. to prevent this, it is advisable to follow the doctor' s instructions. however, resistant germs from animals can be transmitted to humans and pose a high health risk; in fact, it can lead to antibiotic resistance in humans. the report was therefore approved in order to finally encourage research into animal production without antimicrobials.
in writing. − europe's cultural wealth is a precious asset that must be preserved. it is always said that cultural diversity must be promoted. but so far, we have focused far too much on promoting cultural diversity through the muslim immigrant population, without, conversely, ensuring that our own culture is recognized in the countries of the islamic world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against counterfeiting is based on the principle of proportionality. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is important to remember our christian roots and to pay greater attention to the protection of christians in other countries, which are considered the most persecuted minority in the world, in foreign and development policy.
in writing. − the question of whether information and communication technologies are sufficient to create a european identity is open to debate, given the number of failures in the eu. the eu's democratic deficit and the one-sided understanding of democracy by the brussels elites, who simply let the people vote until the result is right, are also not conducive to european identity. the european union could learn a lot from switzerland in terms of direct democracy, which is faced with democratic choices even when the rest of the politically correct mainstream world criticizes it for doing so. it is questionable whether a as the report puts it dynamic and growing cultural sector is an important driver of economic and social innovation. rather, the trend is that migration and migrants are increasingly placed at the centre of cultural promotion, and their own culture and tradition are being sidelined. the integration that is being discussed so much, however, cannot be that we are refusing to accommodate muslim immigrants in our kindergartens and schools at christmas, easter, st. nicholas and the like, or else we lose our cultural identity. we must once again take more care to ensure that our customs, traditions and moral values are upheld and respected by others. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. a few days ago we celebrated the inauguration of euronest in the european parliament in brussels. azerbaijan is a founding member of the assembly and has committed itself to democracy, human rights, the rule of law, freedom of assembly and freedom of the media. this is also one of the key elements in the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement since july 2010. in view of this, it is indeed shocking to see the way in which the government of the azeri republic has dealt with peaceful demonstrators over the past two months. here are young people who organized on facebook social networks , were arrested and sentenced to up to two and a half years in prison for peacefully demonstrating under the slogan drug abuse . others are in danger of similar fate. at least 30 other peaceful protesters were sentenced to between five and eight days in prison in a night and foggy action, with the public excluded and unable to contact their legal counsel. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we call in a joint resolution by the five largest political groups for all these people to be released immediately, for the rule of law, freedom of expression and media freedom to be guaranteed, as president aliyev promised years ago in 2005 when he said: 'no journalist is persecuted in azerbaijan'. he's got to keep those promises. i very much hope that by the inter-parliamentary meeting scheduled for june, we will be able to release everyone, including the newspaper editor eynulla fatullayev, and that the government and the ruling parties will finally live up to their promises. otherwise, there must be consequences.
author. − mr president, i asked for the floor because i wanted to refer to the words ms morvai used earlier. kinga göncz is not from my party but i am appalled by the way that ms morvai used a debate about the last dictatorship in europe – belarus under mr lukashenko – to discredit an honourable member of this parliament by calling her a hungarian lukashenko. (applause)this is not in keeping with the values or the honour of our common european parliament, to which we have all been elected.
author. − mr president, i guess the previous speaker was simply confusing facts. in hungary there is no lukashenko party. i am not from hungary and i am not from a social democratic party or group here, but i refuse to accept that a member of this parliament can criticise somebody else in this parliament as being a member of a dictatorship party in another non-eu country. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr kelam, ladies and gentlemen from the baltic states, ladies and gentlemen! today we commemorate in particular the expulsions and mass deportations from the baltic states. these expulsions are among the darkest events in european history. the past century has indeed been called the century of expulsions, and not without reason. we all bow down today to the victims of these inhuman acts. we are therefore calling for a full explanation of soviet history and in particular of the atrocities of stalinism. today's russia should not see this as a political attack but as a support for the elaboration of its own history, which, like the history of the other countries of europe, is marked by sunny and dark sides. but just as we remember the victims from the baltic countries, we also remember the armenians who were expelled from turkey at the beginning of the last century. we are commemorating the so-called population exchange between turkey and greece. the deportations reached a peak in europe in the middle of the century, when the nazi regime and the communist regime of the soviet union began to deport people. the expulsions after the second world war have also left deep wounds, as have those during the yugoslav war. but we must not forget that many colonial regimes were characterized by expulsions. we must demand a serious confrontation with the various forms of expulsion and false foundations. this includes the clarification of the guilt and the punishment of the guilty, at least as far as this is still possible, as for example now in the case of mladic. but the decisive answer is european unification, especially with the independent baltic states, and a clear commitment to continue the process of european unification which has not yet been completed. this historic task is what we owe not only to ourselves but also to the victims of the many displacements in europe. many politicians from all the countries of europe, east and west, have been working on this. the danish presidency has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we must be vigilant, because we want to learn from the past, even in the face of initial attempts at expulsion, as in the case of the roma. we must reject all statements such as that the arab immigrants must be sent back to the boats across the mediterranean, and we must resist those who want to repeal the achievements of europe without frontiers and return to a new narrow-minded nationalism. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. i never forget! never again! these were demands that arose immediately after the second world war. they have lost none of their validity and are best repealed in a common europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the german-soviet non-aggression pact, hitler and stalin defined their spheres of interest in central europe, and the consequences were devastating, especially for the baltic states. as in belarus, the soviets soon planned the deportation of the leading classes in the baltic states, and in the night of 13 to 14 june the first mass deportations took place. without warning or charge, people were taken from their homes. in 2002, the estonian parliament declared the deportations a crime against humanity. june 14 is a state-recognised commemoration day in estonia. the day serves as a remembrance and a day of mourning, but it is also a sign of appreciation for the present democratic and independent estonia. in europe and the world, 14 june draws attention to the often forgotten plight of smaller states and peoples, especially in the former soviet union.
member of the commission. − mr president, as the rapporteur, jo leinen, said, the purpose of the commission proposal is indeed to establish a common legal framework for the collection, compilation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in order to facilitate more balanced decision-making with the goal of sustainable development. with the presentation of this proposal the commission has delivered its first item on the ‘beyond gdp’ road map. at a time when we are striving, in europe, to achieve a resource-efficient and sustainable economy, this data will allow us to link environmental factors to economic ones and thus offers the possibility of more comprehensive and better-informed policy making. following very fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, i believe we have reached our common objective, namely the establishment of this framework regulation on european environmental economic accounts with its first set of three modules, which cover air emissions accounts, environmentally-related taxes or levies and material flow accounts. currently this data is collected on a voluntary basis by the majority of member states. for the most part, therefore, the collection of the relevant data will not impose any additional burden on respondents, as the member states concerned should be able to compile the data by using existing data sources. with this regulation we have established an important basis for statistical information about the interplay between the economy and the environment, which we hope to expand with further modules in the future as included in the report and the draft resolution. as the various other possible modules are at different stages of methodological maturity, including for instance timber and fish as well as unused extraction, a modular structure has been adopted for the regulation with a view to possibly introducing new modules as annexes to the core text in the future. as agreed, the commission will report to parliament and the council every three years on the development of new modules and, if appropriate, the commission may also put forward new legislative proposals for the new modules. let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur, jo leinen, the shadow rapporteur, mr martin and all the members of the committee on the environment and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their constructive approach and their very valuable contributions.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to say something. when jo leinen and i look back at political positions of the last millennium, we are mostly in agreement. the same applies to this report. it's something good, something sensible, something important. because statistics can be sexy. sexy at a time when the european union has a major credibility problem with its citizens. i say, largely wrong, if you look at the big things and not the other issues that separated jo leinen and me. i am very pleased to be here, not only as an independent member, but as someone who can represent the views we have adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with this opinion - it was not a shadow report, but an additional opinion, even more extensive than that of the lead committee on the environment, public health and food safety - in a vote of 37 to 0. in concrete terms, this means that we want to move towards what i call european sustainability statistics, or ens for short. that would be good. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. this also means, of course, as jo leinen has already pointed out, that we urgently need additional modules. we can go back to the 1970s, to the 1980s, all of this has been worked out. it would be very nice if the commission could move forward more quickly. i think it is very good that eurostat has started to collect data, albeit on a difficult basis, in particular on greece. we are 37 to 0 to 0 in the opinion that the commission needs more money for an ens, for such a european sustainability statistic in this area. but you can do that by re-laying. the commission's proposal is to use the enlargement dividend to take the officials who have been so busy with the enlargement phases of the large countries and put them where we need them most, in the sense of the functioning of a european project.
so we are elected as members of the european parliament. if you only see yourself as a british member of parliament, perhaps you can answer my question from a british point of view. you spoke of sovietization in the statistics. is that really how you see it? is a statistic to you a sovietization? do you not agree that concrete figures on living conditions, inflation - even when it comes to the control of banks - should be recorded on the basis of statistics and that citizens and decision-makers should have access to such information, which would then enable them to make reasonable decisions? or does all this also fall under the sovietisation of britain for you?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr nuttall is railing against something that the uk, like many other countries, has been doing since 2006. this process, which we will conclude tomorrow at parliamentary level, - jo leinen has done an excellent job - is being legislated, as has been the practice for a long time. why do we need this data? this has nothing to do with sovietization. data is only as good as it can be compared, and comparability is the key element. that is why we have this european national accounts system and have been using it worldwide since the 1930s. so is britain. and that's why it's so good, because it's based on uniform standards, and it allows us to compare the prosperity of individual countries and their economic and social success. the dollar is usually used as the reference currency. there is a great opportunity here for the euro to become a reference currency. i think that's a second aspect. we also know that these national accounts have many gaps. let's think about fukushima. fukushima will now have a positive impact on japan's gdp because there is a lot of investment to be made here. it's a flow statement, not a stock statement. the commission has also proposed the introduction of a new system of taxation of capital, which is to be introduced in the next few years. today and tomorrow we decide the first step, this sustainability bill. why would you do that? for example, if we invest in energy efficiency and use less energy, this would have a negative impact on gross domestic product. i don't think even a mr nuttall can object to that. it's less about big politics, it's simply about making our politics verifiable. what taxes are levied on how much material we use. so we want to make the legislative process better, and if you were not in the union, you would have to use the same system, otherwise your data would be worthless. that is why i say it is a positive first step. i thank the commission and the rapporteur.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank jo leinen for a regulation that has long been overdue. many of us, before being elected to the european parliament, simply assumed that the decisions taken by this european parliament, these decisions for the future, were in fact based on this data base, and we were shocked to find that, although these statistics and data exist in most member states, they are not yet contained in a common framework and therefore lack credibility in the public mind. we hear in the media a polarization between the economy on the one hand and the environment on the other. this data would help to weigh whether something is good for the environment, whether something is good for the environment and good for the economy, whether something is good for the economy and good for the environment and good for our social environment. this is the main task we should be facing as politicians. we want to create and improve quality of life, not only in the workplace but also in our environment. i can only endorse the wish of jo leinen, who said today that we should have moved from gross national product to an eco-social product by the end of this decade. the first course has been set. i am very confident that we will succeed in strengthening the credibility of europe in the environmental and economic spheres on the basis of this ecological economic balance sheet. thank you very much and keep it up!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. statistics are always a subject of much debate and controversy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not encrypted. on the other hand, we need transparency and comparability. i think that's important. the aim is therefore to collect the data in a fully automated way, using samples, so that they can be compared. we know, for example, that imaging techniques will continue to play a major role in this field in the future. the automation of the process will make it easier for us to make policy decisions in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a european environmental economic balance sheet will provide us with important data to make environmental aspects visible in policy decisions of various kinds and thus to take them into account across a cross-section of subjects. the data collected and analysed will be crucial for effective measures to counter the environmental impact of economic activities. the need for sustainable policies to meet the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss, increasing pollution and the threat of depletion of our natural resources is strongly supported today. reliable data and the resulting forecasts on the use of natural resources not only allow the success of sustainable economic policies to be clearly measured, but also provide very important added value for the member states.
i have to say, madam president, if we want to preserve our environment for future generations, we must not consider economic and environmental aspects separately. it is therefore sensible to supplement national accounts with environmental policy factors, and the basis of any sound balance sheet is sufficient and reliable data. but if the eu is already centrally requesting data from the member states, it should not stop at sensitive issues. i am thinking here of nuclear policy, of genetic engineering, of the adequate labelling of foodstuffs and, last but not least, of the need to clarify the recent ehec-gurk scandal. this is where the interactions between the economy and the environment become clear. and here it becomes clear where the eu - unfortunately, god's - has its weight, namely with big companies and lobbies.
i have to say, madam president, i think it's important that ms. lagarde gets into that leadership position. it has shown in france that it understands something of the economy, that it also supports small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, that it pays attention to those who actually work and produce. and i think it's also the principle of the international monetary fund to care about the well-being of the people. you can only redistribute if something is created on the other side. that is why the reform of the international monetary fund and the world bank is an absolute priority. we must ensure that countries with financial problems receive the necessary training and knowledge, just as we in the european union are doing our best to solve these problems.
i have to say, madam president, it is simply a matter of strengthening the research community and thus europe's economic power in international competition. we must therefore examine what own resources we might have for the 8th framework research programme. i would ask the commissioner to use the proceeds of the co2 auctioning from the ets system to actually solve the co2 problem. that would be an essential basis. we'd have a double-digit billion dollars to spend on the smart energy program, on our various battery platforms, on many ways to give us a sustainable environment. this could be discussed with commissioner lewandowski and, of course, with the finance ministers. we also need to strengthen the cip programme. i believe that in the cip programme in particular, information and communication technology should serve to provide the necessary equipment, the necessary hardware, so that researchers can communicate faster, better, more efficiently on the latest technology. the integration of fibre optic links into satellite facilities and the formation of corresponding clusters would be a sensational task, as would the establishment of the european institute of technology. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we simply need the most up-to-date knowledge of the time among teachers. last but not least, the european research council is doing an excellent job and the work that is being rewarded here should be made available to the general public as soon as possible. i would also like to thank mr audy for his commitment to small and mediumsized enterprises, and as mr correia de campos has said, the eurostar programme can be one of the great projects of the future.
i have to say, madam president, the evaluation of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development should be based on the benefits and drawbacks of the projects for citizens. i am thinking, for example, of the indect project, which is funded by the funds of the seventh programme. the alleged benefit of counterterrorism must be balanced against civil liberties and data protection. so, in every project, we have to ask ourselves: cui bono? who benefits from it and whose rights are being unduly restricted? this is also true of funding for research in the field of genetic engineering. the big food manufacturers, the lobbies, are the profiteers, but certainly not the citizens. we need to invest more in research and development, but we also need to increase the evaluation of projects which are ultimately financed by the taxpayer.
i have to say, madam president, the seventh framework programme is not only about research in general, but also about a specific area of research which should be of particular concern to us all after the fukushima disaster. it is also about the euratom programme. as you know, it is the nuclear lobby which has in recent years succeeded in promoting nuclear power as a climate-friendly alternative. in some eu countries it is particularly strong. and as we know, some member states have so much invested in nuclear energy that they cannot easily switch to alternatives. what good are more powerful reactors if they collapse under water masses or earthquakes? what good is the most powerful nuclear power plant if a small fault can render entire regions uninhabitable for decades, not just the immediate surroundings? it is therefore important that we focus more on nuclear safety and promote the development of alternatives. fukushima should be used as an opportunity for rethinking, now that the euratom research programme is to be extended for 2012 and 2013.
i have to say, madam president, we can be very happy that our long-standing relations with canada, one of our oldest and closest trading partners in the world, have been shaped by common roots and values. as we know, a whole series of framework agreements on trade and economic relations have been concluded in recent decades, ranging from sectoral agreements to a wide variety of trade initiatives. the ceta agreement, which is now likely to be finalised, is expected to enter into force shortly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. last but not least, the canadian chief negotiator acknowledged earlier this year that this agreement is a top priority for canada. the eu's position as the second largest trading partner is apparently to be expanded as a counterweight to the us market, and conversely canada is seen as europe's gateway to the nafta economic area. if the experts are right, ceta could increase bilateral trade between the european union and canada by 20% by 2014. especially in times of economic stress, such prospects are very appealing. the fact that canada has the second largest oil reserves after saudi arabia is of strategic importance in the european effort to achieve greater energy security, and we should certainly bear this in mind.
(question to mr fjellner on the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) mr fjellner has presented everything very positively and said that we should not put everything on the back burner. my question is in this context: how can he see it as positive that here in canada, every year, the mining of this tar sand destroys an area the size of one eighth of austria and deprives the first nations of their entire livelihood? does he really think that this is so incredibly positive and is it not also part of a european responsibility to set the right conditions here?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was actually going to make a few points in my speech. i'll save that for now because i want to say something else. i do not understand the commission. the commission, which is supposed to be the guardian of european law, including our laws that we have passed, says that when it comes to trade agreements with canada, it is important that some make a lot of money, but it is not important that european law remains law. i do not understand how the commission can say that we should not discuss the ban on the import of seal products in these matters. when dealing with partners, partners respect each other's values, attitudes, interests and do not drag the other partner to the wto court because of his values. they're not my trading partners. it is obvious that if you do not respect each other and share your views, you cannot work well together in the field of trade. if canada does not stop its actions against the seal ban before such an agreement is concluded, then in my view we should not agree to such a trade agreement. because good partners don't drag each other into wto courts because of their beliefs. good partners work together.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission on the intensity with which it is conducting these negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have the example of kyoto, where the international community is concerned with improving standards. that is why we should have specialised negotiations here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should be working towards a research programme that will help us to use these resources in the most environmentally friendly and sustainable way possible. and, commissioner geoghegan-quinn, perhaps you could give the impetus here to the implementation of a research programme on oil sands alongside this trade agreement.
i have to say, madam president, canada is - i want to put this forward - a wonderful country. great people, great achievements, an important partner for the eu. but a good partner needs to be allowed to ask questions. if today the subject is reduced to a very simple one of sand and seals, then some of our colleagues are wrong. oil sands are just one example of a mythical environmental disaster. anyone who has looked at canada knows that environmental destruction is happening here on the scale of brazil. in addition, this environmental destruction also affects the indigenous population, the first nations. their environment is being destroyed. if you know anything about canada, if you have been to british columbia and you know how international corporations are working here to persuade indigenous peoples to give up their ancestral lands and let them buy them, you cannot just ignore it. we talk a lot about clear words, about the protection of minorities in countries bordering the eu. but it is also important that we speak out on the protection of minorities, the indigenous peoples of canada.
in writing. the european union and canada have enjoyed good and solid trade relations for many years. in fact, canada is one of the eu's oldest trading partners. in the mid-1970s, the eu signed its first trade and economic agreement with canada. other agreements followed in the animal sector and in the wine and spirits sector. the ceta agreement could be of great benefit to both trading partners. however, there are still some things to consider and some things to discuss. it is clear that fair competition must be the objective of the agreement. this can only be ensured by eliminating not only tariff but also non-tariff and technical barriers to trade. the principle of reciprocity must be respected, because only in this way can a balanced negotiated outcome be achieved. this also applies to the country and cultural specificities of the partners. discussions on sensitive issues such as oil sands production and its environmental impact, ilo standards, but also on the recognition of technical standards or the traceability of food products, must continue at eye level to achieve consensus. i am particularly interested in the negotiations in the dairy sector and access to the canadian market and the origin marking of canadian slaughter animals. can the commission provide information in these areas? what is the outcome?
i have to say, madam president, let me say a few words about the european integration of serbia. for too long, i believe, the former yugoslav states have been treated unequally, such as slovenia's easy accession to the eu in 2004, despite critics still denouncing existing communist power structures in politics, the media and the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the structural funds are used to the full. i think that there are two kinds of measures in relation to war crimes and restitution. the turkish armenian tragedy was of no concern to brussels. the croats and serbs, on the other hand, have to drag their war criminals before the hague tribunal before the copenhagen criteria can even be applied. while the unlawful provisions of avnoj and beneš did not constitute an obstacle to eu accession, serbia's restitution policy should be in line with eu requirements. the christian-dominated serbia has repeatedly demonstrated its goodwill. the extradition of mladic has removed an obstacle, and kosovo must not be the next victim. i believe that once the reforms that are still pending are completed, nothing should stand in the way of serbia's accession to the eu.
i have to say, madam president, whistleblowers are people who no longer want to accept illegal acts or malpractices in silence, but rather expose them, usually also in the public interest. whistleblowers also tend to add value. for example, in 2005 they funneled a total of about $10 billion into the u.s. treasury as repayments. clear laws governing whistleblowing are a prerequisite in the fight against corruption. in the european union, the legal basis for whistleblowing is the staff regulations, articles 22a and 22b, which unfortunately are very fragmented and lacking in detail. it's missing the basic parts. for example, there is a need for a clear definition of whistleblowing, a right to be heard for whistleblowers, independent points of contact to provide information on rights, obligations and opportunities, and, last but not least, precise processing times for the relevant eu institutions. the good news: reform of the eu staff regulations is imminent. the commission is to submit a first draft to parliament in the autumn. i think it's a unique opportunity to make improvements here. i would ask my colleagues to join me here and work for reform.
mr president, commissioner reding, i would like to thank you for your reply. the vision of a european treaty law is clearly a wonderful one. but in the end, something positive must be achieved for europeans, otherwise the idea of european treaty law is lart pour lart. why is it that the weakest, the consumers, are the ones who are the first to be targeted? the core of mrs wallis' report, the recommendation for the optional instrument, is a disservice to consumers, to say the least. it is confusing to them and in practice it is unlikely that it will ever be the consumers themselves who will be able to choose which contract law they will ultimately apply, but it will be their counterparts, especially large companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. the health dimension of this crisis caused by the appearance of the ehec virus is absolutely tragic. the situation is serious. it is urgent to provide assistance to those affected and to take all possible measures to prevent the further spread of this infection. the research institutes and hospitals must be given all the resources they need to do this. since the onset of the disease, swift action has been the order of the day. the european crisis management system, which includes a common language, is not characterised by professionalism. the sick search for the site of contamination led to hasty mutual blame-shifting. the result of these clashes was days of negative headlines and total consumer uncertainty. for the producers concerned, this results in dramatic, life-threatening income losses. even products that are perfectly local are no longer sold. in austria alone, sales of fresh vegetables fell by 75%. vegetable farmers experience these income losses in the middle of the main harvest season. the uncoordinated information given to consumers in the wake of the incident reiterates the need for a consistent and cross-sectoral origin marking and for efficient controls in accordance with the principle of 'identified and controlled from the point of origin'. the consumer has the right to know where the products come from. this applies equally to the sales shelves as to the catering and large kitchens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the ehec situation has plunged the local vegetable growers into an existential crisis, completely unexpected and without any fault on their part. the commission must provide for the possibility of compensation, whether through a european agricultural fund, the european crisis fund or sales promotion measures. i agree with peter liese that human lives are irrecoverable and that every death is one too many. but it is also our absolute duty not to abandon our producers, who have been put in this situation, which threatens their very existence, through no fault of their own.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ehec is last week's word. our sympathy goes first and foremost to the victims. in the interests of public health, the authorities have a duty to inform the public. the welfare of the people is paramount. in the united states, there is an early warning system. the fact is that there are over 2,000 infections and more than 20 people have died. it is our duty to tell you where this germ is. he was on the spanish cucumbers, and he certainly shouldn't be, because a fecal germ has absolutely nothing to lose on a food. as far as economic compensation is concerned, it is the polluter who has to pay and certainly not the others. in conclusion, i would like to say that the council was not present during the whole discussion on this subject.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eurovignette and the outcome of the negotiations is an example of how the council is currently trying to limit and undermine all the proposals of parliament, especially when it comes to transport policy. the transport policy of the transport ministers in the member states is to demand from the european union a sustainable and future-oriented transport policy every sunday and then do everything possible during the week to actively obstruct it. one thing is clear: noise and exhaust gases are a burden on man and nature. they create costs, and these costs are currently borne by the taxpayer, not the polluter. the ep's proposal was already a very weak proposal and a difficult compromise between the countries in the centre of europe and those on the periphery, but it was further undermined. for example, the provision for external costs was not mandatory but voluntary. the cost accounting is not done for all adverse effects but only for some factors. in the end, what is left over from the cost accounting is more or less just a few sausages and a beer for a whole transit route. that's very little. the scheme is only applicable to lorries over 3.5 tonnes on a limited basis. germany has insisted on the 12 tonne proposal, and in mountain areas only those lorries are taxed which are no longer on the roads because they cannot cope with the high gradients. in the end, italy wanted to screw it up over a bureaucratic detail. so this is, in the end, a prime example of how transport policy is still not taken seriously enough. we greens will nevertheless vote in favour, because we want to be part of a majority which at least saves the principle of the burden of external costs for a future in which there are more sensible transport ministers in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr kohlíček, i may have misunderstood you. i wanted to make one thing clear: it is relatively clear that this compromise is a very weak compromise, that the advantage of trucks on the roads still exists and that the toll is far too low overall. but you said at the beginning that this directive may now bring road and rail into line. i don't think that's going to be equal. but i may have misunderstood you. i ask you to be more specific.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think there is one person in this debate who has had a really great deal of success, and that is the rapporteur. i really believe that the rapporteur has had to overcome an incredible amount of resistance in this dossier and that the best possible outcome has been achieved. in fact, there is not really a majority in this house for a real greening of transport. you have to fight it. it is quite clear that there is a majority of transport ministers in the council at the moment who are not concerned about environmental issues. that there is a majority in the council that does not care about road trainers and that there is a majority in the council that is in favour of consumers buying any ram that is transported far and not high quality local products. i think the best has been done in this situation. we have the principle of external costs for the first time. this was a big step, a difficult step against these resistance forces. we have the ability to measure exhaust for the first time. we have the opportunity to make noise. but far too little natural and far too little. if you look at the charts, it's really just a drop in the bucket. we have also succeeded in widening the corridors, so to speak. but we have not been able to measure co2. you can't explain that to anyone. transport is one of the biggest emitters of co2 in europe and it is not being measured. these are things that really make me unhappy. but i join my colleagues in saying that we must vote for it now, otherwise everything will go to hell. i agree with you with a heavy heart and i think it is good that we have come this far, but we have to do much better in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this directive is, as we all know, a compromise. but it is certainly a good compromise because it takes both sides into account, at least to a certain extent, on the one hand the transport sector and on the other the citizens who suffer from noise and emissions. what are the benefits of this directive? for me, it's three. on the one hand, it is the earmarking of the toll revenue for investment in improved transport infrastructure, which is economically interesting, which brings more security and better transport routes. the second is the unification of the collection system. this reduces costs and avoids traffic jams. the third and most important thing is that it gives member states the possibility and freedom to include costs such as noise and polluting emissions in the toll in future. so these are steering mechanisms. avoiding rush hour and traffic jams means paying less, and driving clean and quiet trucks saves money. i hope that these incentives will lead to the avoidance of congestion and the renewal of truck fleets in the future. on the whole, we know that the negotiations have undoubtedly not been able to meet all the wishes, but these positive aspects, which we were able to push through in the negotiations thanks to the strength of parliament, should lead to the desired positive effects. i also hope that there will not be too much bureaucracy in the implementation, because that would be detrimental to the whole thing.
in writing. - i have approved the report on the proof of origin for certain textile products. the new version of the rules in this area aims to simplify and harmonise the legislative framework, including administrative formalities, while also providing adequate instruments to deal with market disturbances caused by an acute increase in imports from third countries. the new regulation also takes account of the european parliament's previous calls for greater consumer information.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia is an effective means for the eu and croatia to reduce or prevent drug trafficking and use, given the exchange of data and experience on drugs and drug abuse and the fact that one eu citizen dies every hour from an overdose. the fact that croatia will join the eu in 2012 and 2013 respectively and that its geographical position provides a good transshipment point for drug traffickers should be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted for this report, the purpose of which is to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the cross-border transportation of euro cash by road between euro-area member states (the main proposal) to the territory of member states that are about to introduce the euro, since there is normally an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover.
in writing. - i have approved the report. after the european market share in the growing market of satellite navigation systems fell short of expectations, the commission presented an action plan for gnss applications in june last year. the commission has wisely chosen a targeted action plan, whose recommendations include not only the achievement of the 'single european airspace', already a confirmed priority of the eu, but also in the field of road transport, gnss will make an important contribution to the achievement of safety and environmental objectives. overall, the action plan is designed to ensure that the european market is also competitive in this sector, which is forecast to grow to a global market value of eur 230 billion by 2025.
in writing. − due to the new powers created by the lisbon treaty, international air transport agreements will be submitted more frequently to the european parliament for its assessment and approval. the rapporteur therefore proposes that general principles be developed to simplify - but also to improve - this assessment. the rapporteur, while recognising the advantages of such agreements in principle, does not renounce a differentiated approach and repeatedly calls for a constructive dialogue between the commission and parliament.
in writing. - in times of increasing globalisation, which is also accompanied by a massive increase in traffic volumes, it is particularly important for member states with sensitive regions, such as those in the alpine transit area, to charge certain external costs to road users in accordance with the polluter principle. the aim is to create a tool for better managing transport demand. the present report takes a pragmatic approach to reconciling the many different wishes. however, the various initiatives for free movement of so-called mega- or megaliners, which are associated with high infrastructure costs, should not be overlooked. the commission has also taken account of the fact that the shift of freight from road to rail has so far been a mere declaration. these factors should also be borne in mind in the earmarking of infrastructure charges as mentioned in the proposal. as regards the incentives for fleet renewal, it is also important to bear in mind that we cannot unilaterally impose strict environmental and safety regulations on our domestic shippers and fleet owners and then allow cheap competition to cross the border with stinking scrap vehicles. i have voted in favour of this report because it makes a very reasonable point.
in writing. − given the positive experience of switzerland since the introduction of the performance-based heavy goods vehicle tax in 2001, there are no objections to the new directive. in switzerland, there have been 10% fewer journeys since 2001, but at the same time the volume of goods transported has increased by 60%, the emission rate has been reduced - a win-win situation. the purpose of earmarking is to promote public acceptance and reduce external road transport costs.
in writing. − national accounts create environmental returns on economic performance and wealth creation, and the commission proposes that they should include data collection on air emissions and environmental taxes. the environmental accounts are intended to show only the interactions. sustainable development in the eu requires an appropriate approach to ecosystems and the growing scarcity of resources. citizens must be informed about the environmental impact of economic activities.
i have to say, madam president, the north's army is expelling 15,000 people from the city who were advocating for south sudan, and then suddenly, no doubt in a hurry, a referendum is being held in abyei in the shadow of an army which has not been able to agree with the south on the number of people entitled to vote. a truly grotesque endeavor, i must say. it is not just the different views on ownership and belonging that have made abyei the centre of a decades-long civil war, it is also the different religions, the muslim north versus the christian and naturalist south, that have been forced together by the arbitrary demarcation of borders by former colonial powers. this must not be forgotten in the light of the recent escalations. the referendum should never have been passed as long as the status of abyei voters was not fixed. nor should we forget the equally disputed regions of blue nile and south kordofan, with the nuba mountains. i think that would be grossly negligent and should not be done.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! we all know that both countries - romania and bulgaria - have invested heavily in securing the new external borders of the european union. they meet the schengen standards. objective checks have all come to the same conclusion: the conditions for accession to the schengen area are met. our rapporteur has also made a verification himself on the spot. he's made an objective assessment and came to the same conclusion. we will therefore not only support the report, but also support the inclusion of these two countries in the schengen area. the schengen area is also a trust area. this means that it is not a one-off action, but that trust must be maintained over time, that an investment in security must be guaranteed over time. this is true of all countries, not just these two. i hope that this trust will be safeguarded in the long term so that we can maintain freedom of movement, the free movement of persons within the european union as a great asset in the long term. i am concerned, however, about information which i have received today, but which i cannot verify, that the police's income in romania is to be cut by a third. we all know that a prerequisite for incorruptibility, for serious work in the police is a well-paid police. i therefore hope that this information is wrong and that the police officers who perform a service in the interests of these countries and in the interests of the security of the european union as a whole will continue to be well paid in the future so that they are not vulnerable to bribery.
the commission has already done so. we know that the schengen agreement must not encourage mass immigration into the social systems, and freedom of movement must not lead to an increase in crime and illegal immigration. the fight against organised crime and the improvement of border controls must finally be given greater importance in the eu. if italy's border security system is reportedly far behind the usual schengen standard, it is feared that newcomers like romania and bulgaria may soon be lagging behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is fully implemented. in my view, denmark has been a pioneer in eu-wide regulation in tackling asylum misconduct. this is why the commission has reacted so strongly to the announcement of increased border controls to combat rising crime. we should be clear that schengen calls for open internal borders, but only if the external borders are really secure.
in writing. if the report is to be believed, everything is in order and romania and bulgaria have shown that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the schengen provisions. but if you know the europol report octa 2011 on organized crime, you wonder if the civil liberties committee is blind and deaf, and why we should afford europol if we completely ignore its warnings. europol reports on romania and bulgaria as transit routes for drug smuggling, arms smuggling and human trafficking. organized criminal gangs, increasingly multiethnic, are operating with extreme violence. many have paramilitary backgrounds. these groups, and i quote the words of the europol report, 'want to expand their influence in the eu and see their chance in the schengen accession of bulgaria and romania'. europol director rob wainwright said in an interview: the possible schengen accession of romania and bulgaria and visa liberalisation for ukraine all of this can be seen as a new opportunity for organised crime. we have a duty to our citizens to take the warnings of europol seriously. the schengen agreement is already opening all the doors to europe to organised crime and illegal immigration. so it needs urgent repair before it can be expanded!
member of the commission. − this is a very topical question. we have recently had a number of discussions in the context of 1 may. i took up this issue with the employment ministers of the visegrád countries, and of the baltic states. we have been looking at where free movement might lead to a certain amount of tension, especially when it affects certain professions where free movement is not leading to a circular phenomenon, but more of a one-way street. if such tendencies are observed, it is primarily up to the member state governments to draw up the right strategies regarding training, remuneration and career opportunities to improve development for those in the medical profession, for example, which has been a particular focus of these discussions. we will continue to monitor this problem and continue to discuss it with the governments of the relevant member states, as i have already been doing.
member of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. thank you for asking. it is important to note that the structural funds have already allocated funds for the current financial period 2007-2013 under the more than 400 operational programmes or have been agreed with the regions and the member states. part of the overall process at the beginning of a financial period is to establish with member states and regions the programmes for the current period and to determine what funds are available for each programme. under the concept of shared management, the member states and/or regions are responsible for the implementation of the programmes on the ground. they are also responsible for the selection and implementation of projects and ultimately for control, at least at the first level. the issue of energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable forms of energy was already a major issue at the beginning of this period. this is one of the priorities of regional policy, which is also implemented in the form of tailor-made offers in several of the approximately 400 programmes i have designed. in the current period, this agreement with the regions and the member states provides for a total budget of eur 9.2 billion for a sustainable energy policy, with a focus on renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. in addition, a decision of the parliament and the council in 2009 has allowed for up to 4% of the regional development fund to be used for energy efficiency measures in residential buildings. this is now being used by around half of the member states, with france being particularly exemplary in its use and implementation of this possibility.
commissioner, no offense, but let's get serious. i'd be happy to read my question to you. the commission is prepared to set up at least 10% of the current eur 51 billion per year as start-up funding for new renewable energy electricity grids. you've told me a lot. that's right. that's not the point. the point is to send a signal and say: yes, we have understood. yes, we're drawing the consequences from fukushima. yeah, we're really serious about 2020. to bring about an energy revolution, we must bring electricity from northern germany to austria. my father was the head of the vorarlberg power plant. i'm sure you've had some experience in this area. you need wires. so again, my question is: are you personally prepared to put this very start-up funding, which everyone says we urgently need, into action and not simply implement what was decided under your predecessors?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on budgets has been working hard on the next mff for some time, so the report by my colleague is an important contribution. never before have europeans made such high demands on the eu and been so critical of it. there are three points of importance here: firstly, the reference to the citizens of europe. it is understandable that, in the face of the effects of the structural crisis and the ever-increasing challenges of globalisation, our citizens are losing their personal sense of direction and are therefore inevitably questioning the european project in a wider context. this issue needs to be taken into account in the design of the next mff, so that europe is better understood, accepted, lived and supported. secondly, this acceptance will be all the greater, both among citizens and at the political level in the member states, as the eu budget generates a measurable european added value. it will thus be seen as a means of bringing about european unity. thirdly, it is also welcome to consider that the reference point for the next mff should be the europe 2020 strategy, and that this should be accompanied by consideration of its temporal dimension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. five questions we have to ask ourselves: firstly, what budget does the growth and jobs strategy 2020 need? secondly, what budget does monetary union require? thirdly, what is the potential for savings? fourthly, what budget does the united states of europe need? fifth: what role must europe 2020 play? do we even want to play a role? we the european parliament are taking our responsibilities. we'll tell you what's what. in austria, i would say, no music without money. we want to achieve our goals, fulfil our commitments, take on challenges, keep our promises. more tasks, more competitiveness, more sustainable growth, more employment, more research and further integration cannot be achieved with less money, without a cash crunch, without an evaluation of the use of existing resources, without own resources. more europe also creates savings potential in the member states. more europe also creates more efficiency and is our answer to globalisation, to the future, to public debt. what do we want? we don't want to freeze the budget. the freezing of the budget is detrimental to europe and weakens our ability to fulfil our responsibilities to the citizens. we want to introduce the transaction tax as own resources, accept the challenges, keep the contract, not bury our heads in the sand. that's our program. let us give it a proper shove and approve the report!
in writing. since the euro rescue package fiasco, net payers have not only been paying through the eu budget's giant redistribution machine, but doubled and tripled. in the next few years, instead of guarantees, real cash will flow into these rescue mechanisms. and the net contributors, the industrious citizens of germany, france, italy, the netherlands and austria, have to finance them from their national budgets, which are already suffering from severe cuts. people from the economically strong eu countries are as angry about having to save for the piig countries as the protesters in athens. in this tense situation, demanding budget increases is unworldly and downright insolent. we do not need an inflated eu budget, perhaps ten times as high, and certainly not one financed by eu taxes, which completely eliminates any desire to save, which inflates the brussels bureaucracy even more and dresses net payers up to their undershirts. instead, savings potentials should be used consistently. the agricultural subsidies, the largest and most controversial budget item, must be renationalized. this will reduce the burden on the eu budget and enable member states to better respond to the specificities of their farming systems. if instead of supporting large landowners, agricultural factories, large corporations, monarchs and golf clubs with taxpayer millions, the money goes to small and medium-sized farmers, then maybe the death of farmers will finally stop.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to let you know that the microphone in my seat 759 is not working. i already asked to have it fixed yesterday. i'm asking for a technician. thank you, sir.
in writing. - the seventh framework programme is not only about research in general, but also about a specific area of research which should be of particular concern to all of us after the fukushima disaster. so it is those funds from the euratom programme. what good are more powerful reactors if they collapse under water masses and earthquakes? what good is the most powerful nuclear power plant if a small failure can render not only the immediate surroundings but also large areas uninhabitable for decades? it is important that we focus more on nuclear safety and promote the development of alternatives. fukushima should be used as an opportunity to rethink the situation, now that the euratom research programme is to be extended for 2012-13. we must take greater care of radiation protection and final storage. it is vital not to maintain the same priorities, namely the expansion of nuclear energy, but to concentrate on the area of security. the current research programme is, of course, unlimited in this respect. i have taken this into account in my vote.
in writing. − i have already made a number of calls in my parliamentary career for nuclear safety in the eu. such a risky energy technology, with all its dangerous by-products and its deadly effects on man and nature in the event of a super-gau, cannot be promoted under the cloak of climate protection. unfortunately, the seventh framework programme also provides for funding for research in the field of nuclear energy. the report also calls for stricter conditions for the eu's intelligence programme indect. the eu commission should immediately release all project documentation and set out a clear and rigorous mandate for indect's research objective, application and end users. this is the first success where the rights of eu citizens are at least somewhat taken seriously. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. − the european union and canada have enjoyed good and solid trade relations for many years. the potential of economic relations has not yet been fully exploited, and i welcome the negotiations on ceta. however, progress in the wto negotiations should be given priority over bilateral agreements. the resolution covers a range of important issues. i particularly support the european parliament's concerns about the possible negative effects on european agriculture. the principle of reciprocity must be respected in order to ensure a solid and sustainable agreement for both parties. in this context, i would like to draw particular attention to the debate on the origin of slaughtered animals which needs to be resolved, as well as to tariff and technical obstacles such as lengthy approval procedures for eu products. it is clear that the aim of a ceta agreement must be fair competition.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. but so far these agencies have produced a disgraceful picture. for example, the late-action policy of the united states was criticized during the financial crisis of the 1930's. the experts of the rating agencies also did not consider the rotten financial structures in the us real estate market as a risk. as with public universities, they reacted only when investors' distrust was aroused, but then with such harshness that the funding problems of individual states worsened. if for years the greek market irregularities were as well known as the goldman sachs debt-disguise swap, and it was common for athens to revise its budget data when a new government came to power, and the states still got a good rating, but suddenly react with the global financial and economic crisis so sharply that they provoke bankruptcy, meanwhile also abolishing those states whose banks support unstable candidates, and at the same time putting a lot of money on state failures, then the whole system is very sick. the present proposal can only be a first step in the right direction, and i have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. - i consider the past activity of credit rating agencies to be fundamentally very doubtful. not only do they fail to recognize risks early, see u.s. housing market, they often make the situation worse after a crisis breaks out. it is not appropriate for private us rating agencies to arbitrarily decide on the creditworthiness of european countries. the report is a step towards stricter supervision of credit rating agencies, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the wake of the global financial and economic crisis, rating agencies, and in particular their active role in the ongoing crisis, have been critically examined. the key problems identified were lack of competition, excessive reliance on external credit ratings and lack of accountability in the industry. the rapporteur therefore recommends that the establishment of a genuinely independent european credit rating agency be considered, with the new european credit rating foundation being self-sustaining. the far-reaching implications of ratings make it imperative to engage intensively with the industry. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. - i support the principles set out in the report. i would point out, however, that the objectives pursued are lofty and that in reality they are hardly achievable. there are already countless trade agreements which do not require compliance with social standards. as long as this apparent discrepancy exists, the effectiveness and usefulness of this report can only be limited. the report calls on member states to implement core labour standards for enterprises in their own countries. shouldn't this also apply to non-european companies? i also believe that the report purports to combat the negative effects of globalisation, but that the measures it mentions are ultimately unable to do so. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − in this report, the european union sets itself very high targets based on well-considered principles. member states are encouraged to implement core labour standards for enterprises in their own countries. unfortunately, this does not seem to apply to non-european companies at this stage. i am not going to vote on the report because i support the principles of the report but i do not think its conclusions are very precise.
in writing. - the rapporteur regrets that in the field of social policy the focus is still not on people, but on the human factor, which has to be replaced by the factor of competitiveness. the report states that the eu has a very good reputation worldwide as an ideal combination of economic dynamism and social model - and that this also implies a certain responsibility. the eu should not and cannot expect double standards, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur in every respect.
in writing. - the world of work has changed considerably. whereas a good education once guaranteed a good job, today a college or university degree cannot save many people, especially young people, from unemployment. the first stage of the vocational training process is becoming increasingly difficult. on the other hand, entrepreneurs are constantly complaining about a shortage of skilled workers and use this alleged shortage as a pretext for seeking to attract cheap skilled workers. the demand for complete flexibility and mobility, with simultaneous price squeezes on the labour market, also in the form of new work models such as mac-jobs, make it impossible for many to start a family or to reconcile work and family. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, it may be useful to support mutual recognition of training and continuing training. but the success of the strategy will also depend on addressing these problematic developments. in this sense, the report's call for rapid action on youth unemployment is welcome, but lacks concrete action. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. - europe's labour market is facing major challenges. the problem facing young people is that a good education alone no longer guarantees a good job. worse still, it often does not even protect against unemployment. on the other hand, large companies complain of a growing shortage of skilled workers, often a welcome excuse to employ people at dumping wages. it makes family life and work-life balance impossible. the mutual recognition of training and continuing training is a first step. the report's call for action on youth unemployment is also correct. but it's no use just calling, it's too vague. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − strategy 2020 is designed to deliver smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. the results of the training are also important. 'lifelong learning' is a top priority for our citizens, so access to vocational education and training must be a priority for us too.
in writing. - promoting prosperity in the so-called developing countries is a necessary measure, in particular to prevent the surge of migration flows to europe. this is already being done in the context of various programmes. the aim of this report, however, is to extend financial assistance. this objective cannot find my approval. in view of the current financial difficulties within the eu, this aid cannot be implemented at present. the eu should also be able to decide on the use of development aid, but not the member states.
in writing. - it is absolutely welcome to help the developing countries and to give them financial support. humanitarian principles and the balance of the world are plausible reasons for this. the european union is already helping through various programmes. the report does, however, envisage the creation of further instruments and thus the expansion of development aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
in writing. − impact assessments are a valuable legislative tool; they serve to inform policy-making and can thus contribute to better regulation. transparency, a consistent level of quality and the presentation of the advantages and disadvantages of a sufficient number of policy options are prerequisites and necessary for reliable impact assessments. i therefore voted in favour of the alternative proposal put forward by the green group.
in writing. − a european contract law should ensure a better functioning internal market, with this report highlighting in particular the potential for smes and consumers. efforts to find a common legal framework have been under way since 1989. in 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on consumer rights. it is far more important for europe's consumers that consumer protection is improved at eu level. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected by the principle of sound financial management. it is doubtful whether european contract law will improve access for small businesses, as research shows that medium-sized to large retailers are the main participants in cross-border retail trade, which is not only bureaucratic but also costly. the problems of crossborder online trade are likely to persist for some time. nor is there any clear evidence that standardization is actually necessary. i am in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore against the wallis report.
in writing. - europe as a people's europe can only function as a europe of the fatherlands, subsidiarity and national sovereignty. so far, it does not seem that a european contract law is necessary, and if a regulation is not necessary, it should not be adopted. i also regard this report as a diversionary manoeuvre, as it is intended to distract from the fact that the much more important eu-wide consumer protection is unfortunately still in need of improvement. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. - the rapporteur is in favour of an optional instrument. consumer organisations are already very sceptical about the way the issue is dealt with in the eu. on the one hand, the causal link to the basis of future contract law is questioned, but above all, there is a fear of an additional complication of the legal environment. a 'toolbox' is preferred at the present time, as it would meet the present need and specific provisions on the most common types of contract would be a real help to consumers. however, at this stage all options should be kept open and examined.
in writing. - the gnss satellite navigation system, i.e. galileo and egnos, has become a bottomless pit, as has the major project of the schengen information system ii. the costs of the follow-up still do not seem to be quantifiable, but it is clear that savings are needed to prevent a definitive cost explosion of the project costs, which are already soaring. the problem is that the savings in the related services are only for european citizens as taxpayers and are left to military use. in this context, further discussion is needed on the current approach and implementation and on its future management, use and financing. in any case, it is not to be expected that increased private sector involvement in this area will bring financial relief in the future. the commission's evaluation is certainly to be looked forward to. the galileo idea is in principle to be welcomed, but the costs must be controlled. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − once again, the eu is able to delay a project (as with iter) until the costs become unpredictable. this applies to the follow-up costs of the gnss satellite navigation system (galileo and egnos) as well as to the schengen information system ii. and it's not just the follow-up costs, but the very "normal" project costs that have exploded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the damage caused by the oil spill. so far, so necessary. i'm not sure i can do it. unfortunately, it seems that these savings are only for european taxpayers, as they are understood to be savings in services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's satellite navigation system is fully operational. the gnss project, which is generally welcome, is seriously called into question by these circumstances. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - since the euro rescue package fiasco, net contributors have been asked to pay twice and three times as much. in the next few years, instead of guarantees, real cash will flow into these rescue mechanisms. and the net contributors, the industrious citizens of germany, france, italy, the netherlands and austria, have to finance them from their national budgets, which are already suffering from severe cuts. in this tense situation, it is a shameless attempt to demand budget increases. we do not need an inflated eu budget, perhaps ten times as high, and certainly not one financed by eu taxes, which completely eliminates any desire to save, which inflates the brussels bureaucracy even more and dresses net payers up to their undershirts. instead, savings potentials should be used consistently. the agricultural subsidies, the largest and most controversial budget item, must be renationalized. this will reduce the burden on the eu budget and enable member states to better respond to the specificities of their farms. i therefore rejected the garriga polledo report in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. - europe's high-performing citizens are paying more and more. the disastrous euro rescue package, which in short is a "head-up" for the net contributors to mismanagement and corruption in some southern states, is intended to ask the citizens of the net contributor states, who are already heavily burdened, to come to the aid again. instead of exploiting savings potential, the items are further inflated. the aim must be not to load but to unload! that is why i voted against this motion.
madam president, i strongly disagree with all of those who have said that it is not respecting sovereignty if we debate and criticise a member state’s constitution here, or that it would, as somebody has said, be a dangerous precedent and acting outside of european competence. the constitutions of member states have to be in accordance with european values, with our value community which we have defined. there are at least two things i would like to mention which are not in line with that. others have mentioned others. the first is that discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is not included and that has to be included in the future. also, marriage and family values as defined there goes beyond the reality of people living in europe and in hungary, and it is not the rule of diversity that we have. one other thing relates to the so-called green ombudsman for the rights of future generations on environment and sustainability. this post is now subordinated to the general ombudsman, as other ombudsmen have been, and so it is weakened. this is also an area where competences are taken out of the sphere of regulations that were there before, and it makes clear that the issue of sustainability, environmental protection and the rights of future generations – another part of european values – which needs to be important, is no longer as important as it was before. one last point: there was also an ombudsman on data protection. that post has been abolished totally, so transparency of information about the state, for example on public procurement, is not there anymore. this is something that is heavily criticised by me and by my group. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, my reply to ms gál is as follows. the issue was not comparison with other member states’ constitutions. the issue was: what is a european value? what is part of our fundamental rights? what is enshrined in the common values that i hope you share as well? with regard to the rights of future generations, environmental sustainability is something that is enshrined in the rights of our common european union. some member states have that and others might not have it, but the fact is that in the new constitution the government of hungary has abolished this symbolic ombudsman. there is now only one ombudsman and the symbolic value, stated in writing, is no longer there. you know how important symbols are in politics as well. that means that you do not want to have this symbolic representation, either at the political or the ombudsman level. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i must say to mr szájer: sorry, that is not the problem. hungary had a green... (laughter)ok, laugh if you want to. i do not mind laughter, i like humour, but the issue is that, with the new constitution in hungary, this green ombudsman has been abolished and he has been subordinated, all the four ombudsmen or ombudswomen that existed have been subordinated, to one general office of the ombudsman. the issue of sustainability of future generations is not as visible as it was before and that is the criticism i have. my country does not have such a post. of course, as a green i would fight for that, but you have written a new constitution and this abolishes a symbolic and a political value that i guess was important to you, as you say now. why did you abolish it then? why did you not keep it there so that everybody could see a green ombudsman who is in favour of the rights of future generations, environment and sustainability? you have not explained that, colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in recent years, european arrest warrants have been issued for trivial offences, such as the theft of two car tyres or the theft of a piglet. the original use against terrorism and serious crime is no longer in question. the european arrest warrant is in my view a clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity. it abolishes the most important function of citizenship, namely the function of protection, and member states are obliged to extradite their own nationals. in view of the wide range of legal systems in the union, the obligation to extradite may in some cases be regarded as being in force irrespective of whether the offence is punishable in the extraditing state. the european arrest warrant for me symbolizes the concept of a european state and european citizenship at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states and the rights of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. russia is certainly a very important partner for the european union, but - as the commissioner has already said - a very difficult partner. i hope to negotiate quickly. but as soon as mrs oomen-ruijten imagines it, it will not be possible. we must engage in dialogue with elected officials and with civil society, which often approaches us on questions of democracy and human rights. the idea of a modernisation partnership between the european union and russia is a good one. but russia must do its part. we need more democracy, less corruption. we continue to hear from many investors complaints about legal uncertainty, particularly in the area of taxation. and above all we need - as the commissioner has already mentioned - rapid preparation for wto accession and membership. in energy policy we need russia's commitment to the principles of a transparent and fair energy policy. russia can do a lot on its own, especially in terms of energy efficiency, where there are still major shortcomings. i would like to mention the energy issue, which concerns our neighbour, our common neighbour, ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we must reject this completely! we are committed to ukraine's freedom to choose which markets it wants to enter and where it wants to be active. we want trade relations and a trade agreement with ukraine. russia should not put pressure on ukraine by offering to join the customs union with kazakhstan and belarus or to pay a high energy price. we reject that! the european union is also prepared to support the efforts of the european union to establish a common foreign and security policy in the region. we also hope that russia will make a positive contribution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the two sides are not talking about arms deliveries, but about peaceful mediation between the two sides. the commissioner has already mentioned it: the liberalization of visas is an important issue. it is particularly important for interpersonal relations that there should be as much freedom of movement of persons as possible between russia and the european union. i hope we can make progress on that soon. a crucial question, however, will be how the next elections will be held. russia should know that the world, and particularly the democratic world in europe, will be watching closely how these elections are conducted, whether the registration of parties is correct and fair or whether certain persons or certain parties are excluded from the outset. this should be made clear to russia at the summit. we want fair and correct elections in russia too! russia has a lot of catching up to do. but russia is mature enough for democracy. we want to see democracy in russia, just as the citizens of russia want it themselves. that is our wish and our vision. russia should be aware that democracy is also good for russia!
the commission has already done so. as we know, russia is important to the european union not only in economic matters but also as a strategic partner. the european union has a duty to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the russian authorities, and that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the russian authorities. however, there are also problems in the area of the still unimplemented 2006 agreement on eu airlines. relations between the eu and russia are further strained by the planned us missile defence in romania. if the eu is serious about its strategies to improve relations with russia, then on the one hand these problems must be eliminated, but on the other hand the russian sensitivities regarding a historical sphere of influence which undoubtedly exists, or for russia, must also be taken into account. it's the only way we're gonna get ahead.
i have to say, madam president, russia is an important but very difficult partner for the european union. russia's accession to the wto is certainly very important. but i would like to call explicitly for a democratic process at both the political and civil levels. respect for and observance of human rights are essential prerequisites for this.
the commission has already done so. inner mongolia is known to be rich in coal and natural gas. although chinese law gives the indigenous mongols the right to use the land, the reality is certainly different. chinese companies are criticized for using huge amounts of groundwater in water-intensive coal mining, draining the steppe. it is also criticised that the pasture is additionally affected by coal transport. the recent protests by the mongols have opened the floodgates to another long-simmering ethnic conflict in china, following the 2008 tibetan uprising and the 2009 uighur muslim uprising. with china's chronic water shortage and its huge demand for raw materials, the conflict between mongolia and china is expected to continue to escalate. the eu is now involved in the partnership with mongolia, which has been in place for some years, and it will certainly have to step up its efforts to promote human and minority rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think what happened here can be described as a lesson. we austrians are enthusiastic skiers. of course, that requires a runway. but skiing also involves, and you have to know and take note of, a beautiful and intact environment, because nobody goes there to ski where there is nothing left. in view of this situation, austrian policy has made many mistakes in the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airspace is not affected by the accident. the european union and the european parliament have added value. in this case, things seem to have gone wrong. it's often the case that when things go wrong, nothing happens. but a petition was submitted here, and things have been put right in austria. i think that's a good example of how it should work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you very much for your information. i think what you said is very important. i just have one request. you said that the current implementation of the environmental impact assessment in austria was sufficiently satisfactory to the commission. however, there is still a judgment of the ecj which warns that citizens must be involved in the procedure for establishing the eia obligation. it is not in the austrian version, and that would be an early warning system, so to speak, so that things like those we saw in mellau cannot happen again. i think it is absurd not to include the slopes in a ski resort unless the whole mountain has been dug up, and i would like to stress this again. i mean, these are the areas that are affected, and they have to be accounted for. this is a matter of fragmentation and circumvention, that is quite clear. i hope you'll keep an eye on this case for the rest of the proceedings.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the purpose of the environmental impact assessment is to identify and assess the direct and indirect environmental impacts of projects in accordance with the precautionary principle. the exclusion of plans which are, however, spatially or objectively related to the project inevitably leads to the undermining of the legal situation. the court of justice has already ruled in 1996 that member states must ensure that the objective of the directive cannot be circumvented by dividing up projects. in its 2003 report on the application and effectiveness of the eia directive, the commission identified the root of the multiple problems of ineffectiveness of the eia provisions not necessarily in the national implementation of the directive, but in their practical application. one of the recommendations made at that time was specifically addressed to member states which have set binding thresholds, such as austria. they were advised to ensure appropriate screening for projects with a potential for significant environmental impact, particularly with regard to sensitive areas and the potential for cumulation of projects. you mentioned the screening process at the beginning, so we're waiting for the results. austrian citizens are increasingly protesting that their concerns are not being taken into account. according to the case law of the ecj, the national specific law must be sufficiently detailed and provide for sufficient public participation. how does the commission assess this aspect of the austrian environmental impact assessment act? criticism of the lack of public participation is felt in almost all member states. the current revision of the eia directive is also discussing the review of a uniform public participation procedure as laid down in the directive itself.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the list of speakers gives the impression that the community and the committee on petitions are seen as the supreme authority in this procedure. i would also like to say that these projects are not suitable for making political change. this is a project in mellau-damüls. these are two small communities. there is a vorarlberg state government, a district administration, which has tried to apply this austrian environmental law to the best of its knowledge and conscience. i believe that these authorities are not to blame for any mistake. the legal question arises, however, as to how the republic of austria has implemented this eia directive. it is important to bear in mind that there are quite different legal traditions in austria and in the european union. i believe, madam president, that the republic of austria has tried to do this properly. in the course of this procedure, lawyers have come to the conclusion that there may have been some mistakes. i would like to stress once again that only the last few per cent are up for debate. this project also included voluntary compensation measures, which have now been dropped. large payments were made. you have to admit that. we must also make a political assessment of the situation. if you consider that this project has been compensatory, that it has been an attempt to rectify what may have gone wrong, then you can probably give the project a green light. i am sorry to say that i have to ask the commission to take account of the same things, to look beyond the borders, so to speak, and to look at cases which in some member states are actually much more serious. the commission should be careful here. this would be extremely important in environmental policy, in particular, if it is to be more widely accepted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to emphasize the aspect of 'the national authorities have learned' mentioned by the commissioner, because i believe that the action taken by the austrian federal government, namely the minister responsible for the environment, in amending the eia law is to be assessed very positively and that this can be called exemplary, also as a benchmarking, for many other cases that are not so familiar to many people. finally, i would like to support the amendment tabled by mr jahr, who calls for concrete and effective tools to enable the projects to be influenced, monitored and corrected, even at the planning and initial stages of the projects.
i have to say, madam president, i may have misunderstood the colleague, that's why i wanted to ask. i think it's important that the rules are followed and that you don't always use it as an excuse, the circumstances are the way they are, so we don't have to follow them so closely. rules must always be followed, and that's a good thing. my question is: you probably meant that rules must be followed no matter what the circumstances, and that it is not always the case that you follow the circumstances?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this debate shows once again that we have a very big problem in the whole area of the environment, namely a communication problem. the environment, the economy and regional interests are constantly being played off against each other. that is the big problem. we need the support of the commission to ensure that the environment can also be an essential factor in the economy. at the moment, there is still far too little emphasis on the fact that measures to protect the environment and nature can also create and maintain jobs. the debate is always polarized at the moment: either nature or jobs. unfortunately, this is also sometimes used by politicians - by us - in this sense. i would urge that we really work towards raising awareness and that both sides recognize that we need an intact environment if the economy is to continue to function in the future.
i would like to ask mr wieland, who is a lawyer, whether he now wants to include mountain climbers, hikers, skiers and those who use lifts to avoid walking the whole way, and people who use other sports equipment. will the whole alpine region then be subject to an environmental impact assessment? i would ask him to clarify the criteria and explain what he means.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, we have referred to the nuclear power station in austria wherever you like to go on holiday comfortably. the radiant heat of today's debate has its uses, of course. it reminds you, mr. oettinger, that you can go from being an enbw pole to an akw control pole, if you do it right, even to an exit pole. you know that. the 'more' you have announced is not enough, and it is very important, of course, that you put pressure on a neighbouring country, the czech republic, which i understand wants to avoid any kind of more critical tests, especially when it comes to crime, but also to the obvious uk nuclear power plant lobbyists, which is the key word. you must free yourself from your whisperers in the commission! look who's really in charge of the important groups ensreg and wenra. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy. it would be worth it to help you achieve the goal you claim to want to achieve. and last but not least, german industry and all those who start with e - edf, e.on and enbw - can no longer be your friends in this discussion, but you need this critical control distance. austria will provide you with the necessary assistance, including from your holiday destination.
i have to say, madam president, i have a question for the honourable members: what do you think of the fact that the czech republic wants to withdraw information from us after very serious stress tests and that it does not want to participate in the question of criminal attacks? and how do you feel about the nuclear industry and your personal relationship with the lobbying sector?
the commission has already done so. as we know, the margin of manoeuvre was already so generous in the banking stress tests that all the institutions studied scored reasonably well. where danger was to be expected, precautions were not taken. the nuclear power stations are like that, you can imagine. the nuclear power plant stress tests have so far proved to be nothing more than a placebo for the concerned population. apart from the fact that the tests may be pure eye-washing at the lowest level without consequences, it is doubtful that even a strict interpretation of the test criteria will achieve the objective. the question is, after all, what standards should be tested against, when it is alleged that not one of the 17 german reactors would be approved today simply because the standards then in force no longer correspond to the present knowledge. critics doubt that even brand-new nuclear power plants, such as the european pressurized water reactor under construction in france and finland, meet current safety standards. if we hear that some nuclear power stations are not even designed to be weatherproof, we can only appeal to everyone to get rid of nuclear energy as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, the austrian people have voted by a clear majority against the use of nuclear power, and this is also a clear mandate for the politicians. i would like to mention that commissioner palacio has already made a great effort to give europe more scope in this area. mr piebalgs also succeeded with his nuclear safety directive, and i hope that we will now have a new nuclear safety directive which is really binding and which also sets the review and the standards accordingly. we should look at which of the iaea standards are available to us and which then have to be legally incorporated into eu law. of course, one-off stress tests are not enough, there must also be a de facto sequence of stress tests in the future, so that in the event of danger and in the case of dangerous nuclear power stations, immediate shutdown is possible. we need an eu regulator who, together with the national regulators, has the power to enforce and who is entitled to take these power stations off the grid immediately if they do not comply with the standards. i can only endorse what was said today. we need a reform of the euratom treaty. the european council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take it up again in the near future. it cannot be as it has been in the general council that the nuclear working group has been at odds with everything that has come from europe. we need research in euratom, above all, for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. we also need research for final disposal, and we need to focus on safeguards and security, and training and testing. we need to strengthen the clearinghouse model we have in place in european legislation. commissioner oettinger, you can be sure that you have the support of the house.
in writing. - in a referendum in january this year, the people of south sudan voted overwhelmingly for independence and secession from the northern part of sudan. it is important that the eu fully respects this right to self-determination and recognises the results of the referendum as an expression of the democratic will of the people of south sudan. i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses this clearly. it will now be important for the parties to the cpa to engage in a continuous and constructive dialogue to resolve the issues that remain unresolved after the referendum. this includes the establishment of common borders, the rules of citizenship for citizens in both the north and the south, and the equitable distribution of oil revenues and the use of oil pipelines.
in writing. − in recent years, unfortunately, the trend towards unfair commercial practices and misleading advertising has intensified. whereas consumers were once the main victims of fraud, the practice of fraud is now spreading to the professional world. the problem is that these fraudulent schemes are mostly cross-border, making them difficult to catch and prosecute. in some cases, companies operate under constantly changing company slogans and postal box addresses, making it very difficult to make the wire-pullers real. it is therefore important to close gaps in this area in order to better tackle fraud. however, the measures should not only cover the business sector, i.e. the misleading business practices of address book companies as in the specific case mentioned, but also rigorously address the various types of consumer fraud. i see the petition as a right step which should be followed by further action and i have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. - i have approved the motion for a resolution and the request for an improvement in the legal situation contained in it. in the meantime, however, action must be taken to avoid further increase in the number of people affected. a strategic information campaign is needed to 'sweep' these businessmen out of their jobs. it is essential to examine carefully and thoroughly offers for inclusion in address books, especially when they are allegedly free of charge.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would support this motion. it is up to the conference of presidents, but only as a matter of political will, to give us a brief statement and debate on this at the july meeting, which will also include the high commissioner.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! first, a subject which is very close to my heart: croatia, of course. i hope that we will succeed in reaching a decision that croatia can now be accepted into the european union. the commission has done a good job here - commissioner füle, you yourself, mr president of the commission, and also the hungarian presidency in this context. it would be a good and important signal for a region with problems such as the balkans if the country which has done its job well would take the lead. when i say "done", i don't mean that all the problems are solved. we have just had some very unacceptable situations in split in connection with the gay parade. but what is important is that the government is committed to the fundamental freedoms and rights. let me say a few words about greece. mr president of the commission, you said that it would be difficult to explain to the citizens if we did not find a solution, for example, to the economic governance package. but, mr president of the commission, it will also be difficult to explain to the citizens if we focus only on austerity. you talked about growth, you meant we need something for growth. but what, mr president of the commission? you cannot believe that austerity alone will lead to growth if we do not at the same time make alternative offers! mr verhofstadt has mentioned some problems. it is not just left-wing economists - yesterday, for example, le monde, which is not a left-wing newspaper, made it quite clear in the economic section: on the one hand, austerity - yes, we need certain restrictions - but we also need growth and investment. when we talk about privatisation, mr president of the commission, you know very well that pushing greece into a wave of privatisation in the short term really means, as mr bisky said, that things are getting worse. we must give greece time to privatise those things which can still be reasonably privatised at a time when it can still get enough money for them. secondly, we have to say that we have to invest some of the money. if you say that you want to release regional and structural funds, then we must get rid of the link with cofinancing, because otherwise greece cannot use it. these are all proposals which we expect from the commission, mr president. we are in favour of a policy of austerity and of austerity where necessary, we are in favour of restrictions and restructuring measures. but without growth, it won't work. at the end of the day, if we continue to do this, we will not save greece, we will not save our banks, we will not save our taxpayers, but we will be in chaos. that is why, mr president of the commission - and this is of course also true of the council - we need growth alongside structural measures. the proposals for growth and employment are crucial for the future of greece and europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in all the countries where there is a crisis, there have been real problems. there's no point in denying it. there are two ways to abuse it. it can be abused by, for example, advising countries to go down the rabbit hole, as some rating agencies do. but it can also be abused by the political view that we do not need to change anything. if some of the protesters, for example in greece or other countries, think that nothing needs to be changed, that things can go on as they are, they are wrong. we therefore support the measures taken by the papandreou government. they are moving in the right direction, they need support, and some trade unionists in greece have to admit that this is the only way out of this situation, if there is a common policy of growth at the same time. i wanted to make that very clear. so abuse from neither side! this is absolutely important.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's migration policy has failed. the commission's plans for so-called mobility partnerships, for example, are intended to give the mass influx from north africa a legal dimension. malmström has repeatedly claimed that europe is supposedly dependent on immigration from north africa. however, it is deliberately ignored that many member states are facing high levels of unemployment, particularly among young people. in libya, the population has doubled in the last twenty years. the opening of the door to north africa will therefore increase the pressure on the european labour market. we therefore need not more immigration from north africa, but a stop to immigration. our citizens do not want mobility partnerships here, but take-back partnerships. our fellow citizens do not want open borders, but the reintroduction of controls and a strengthening of frontex. this should also be taken into account at the forthcoming council summit when discussing the so-called progress on immigration policy.
in writing. while the world's immigration champion, canada attracts more highly skilled migrants than any other region in the world with those who cannot support themselves also being quickly sent out europe is practically running compassion migration for the unskilled because the majority of africans coming to europe are not refugees, but economic refugees. this humanistic fraud, with the false designation of 'refugees' and the humane demand for asylum, is causing irreparable damage to the asylum system. the european asylum policy can only fail in view of the undesirable side effects of previous proposals: the dublin agreement was supposed to prevent asylum tourism. now, countries with easily accessible external borders are being overrun, but the majority of asylum seekers still end up in countries with generous social systems. and it was foreseeable that equal treatment of asylum seekers and nationals in the labour market and social sphere would spur economic migration. the expanded rights of illegal immigrants make deportation almost impossible. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. the european asylum system, which is based on humanity and the struggle to survive, must be rejected. there must be a clear distinction between asylum seekers and economic migrants. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. the european council has made a number of preparations for its meeting. in the face of the greek crisis, it is time to make it clear that the european union is not just a give and take, but that it operates on the principle of 'give and take'. but it also means that when a country receives aid, that country must also comply with the measures that are put in place. the fact that the stability and growth pact has been improved is more than welcome, simply to prevent another financial disaster for a member country. on the planned accession of croatia: it is to be welcomed that croatia fulfils the accession criteria. the question is, however, how to finance the approximately eur 500 million to which croatia is entitled.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you ask europeans what they want from european policy, they say quality of life, then health and the environment. the common agricultural policy is precisely the task we have to fulfil the expectations of europeans, both of us as politicians and of politics as a whole. the contribution of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is essential here, because we want what the europeans want. we want healthy food produced in a biodiversity, and i mean biodiversity here, biological, but also production technology. we have to provide ways for the habitat to be preserved. we must look after our waters, we must look after our air, we must look after our soil. we must ensure that the rural environment is developed and does not become europe's poorhouse. we must pursue an agricultural policy which involves all regions in their development. we need money for that. we need the money distributed fairly and equitably!
i have to say, madam president, the report by mr deß is about taking account of environmental and climate protection in agriculture and also about increasing the competitiveness of agriculture. we have negotiated good compromises on these points. i think we should advocate well-thought-out operating limits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the european people's party is clearly on the side of the peasants when it comes to eliminating bureaucracy. the complete change of systems and the associated introduction of additional controls, as others are calling for, would be absolutely absurd. one thing must be clear: if consumers expect european agriculture to go even further towards greening and sustainability, then the measures must be designed with the necessary financial means. i am firmly opposed to cuts in the eu's agricultural budget in the next budgetary period. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine. the commission's cutbacks in rural development programmes are cutting off the rural lifeline. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the agricultural sector. the president of the commission will be well advised to listen to the voices of this house. the common agricultural policy is and remains a key area of community policy and the community budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. quite the opposite! investment aid under the second pillar will encourage innovation and the will to innovate. this is to the benefit of everyone in the rural area. the measures for young farmers in particular must ensure the future of agriculture. the future of agricultural policy will determine the future of self-sufficiency in europe!
, in writing. a healthy farming system and i am not talking about industrial agricultural factories but about small structured family farms is a guarantee for the preservation of rural culture and our natural and cultural landscape and a prerequisite for the security of supply for our population. the importance of the latter has been clearly demonstrated in the light of the recent eec crisis. consumers have high expectations of organic products: they expect organic products to have a balanced ecological balance, which in reality is often more than questionable. instead of being particularly positive in terms of sustainability, resource conservation, co2 savings and protection of so-called farm animals, organic products are often transported across europe. the eu has and i am speaking on behalf of austria, the number one organic country need for action: greater emphasis should be placed on regional supply and seasonal availability, and on strict labelling of foodstuffs. the agricultural services are therefore paid for by fair product prices. we are not supporting agricultural factories in the cap, but rather our farmers!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the drama of the european union is turning into a tragedy. tomorrow, it may be every vote. how can i, as someone who was directly elected by 500,000 voters in austria, say yes to this package? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how is it supposed to work if on the one hand a de facto protectorate is established - greece - and on the other hand the taxpayers of powerful nations are being looted through these detours of the ecb, the bad banks, the bonds? how can we convince people who were firmly convinced that the shilling, the mark will not be abandoned, that we now suddenly need eurobonds because the banks are not controlled? i can only imagine that if we finally admit and say that we had, we had, we had at the time, that we admit the mistakes and put next to this burning house of europe finally the vision in which we can persist in globalization. i cannot see that with the present package, and that is why it is so difficult to give it responsible approval, apart from certain points.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the more we guarantee the future european stabilisation mechanism, the more the sound states will become dependent on the over-indebted eu periphery. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, economically strong and weak economies were arbitrarily lumped together, then various unsuccessful bailouts were undertaken, and now the whole thing is to culminate in a european economic government. i think that if over-indebted economies want to remain in the euro, they should be subjected to strict budgetary controls. but centralisation, a sort of brussels budgetary authority over all the member states, is an unacceptable interference with the sovereignty of the member states and would also degrade the sound european states into pawns of the eu bureaucracy. i think that the constant desire for centralisation in brussels should be put to an end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're running out of time. i therefore say: no more sunday speeches, no more blame-pulling and party tactical games, wherever they are played! we have to deal with the nails with the heads and we have to give the answers to the crisis step by step. what are the causes of the crises? some of the reasons are - and we stress this constantly - that the rules have not been respected, that the sanctions have been blocked and that the monetary union is not being put on its second foot. we are now demanding, with our economic governance, that the stability and growth pact be strengthened preventively and correctively, that there be a reverse majority in the enforcement of sanctions and that the commission have a right of intervention when necessary so that the citizen can have confidence that the rules are being respected. the second is that we want the monetary union to be put on its second foot. that means that we are creating economic union, that we are not losing sight of political union. i must say that i am disappointed with the outcome of the trilogue. i can't do it right now. but the council's refusal to agree to the european parliament and the social partners being part of the economic dialogue is a weakening of the agreement. we want to strengthen the unity. and the council's inability to address the imbalance we have in our society and to give parliament the possibility of making the ministers of the member states directly accountable to us is a weakening of the trilogue result. we're coming up on the trilog score. we want to clarify the open questions and reach an agreement. if we now allow ourselves to be weakened by the council's weakness, we have not learned the lesson of the crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to ask my colleague karas a question. we are now in the midst of the single currency crisis. we are aware that there are fundamental problems here, no common fiscal policy, no common economic policy. to me, these are quite surprising findings from economists or smart ladies and gentlemen. do you really think, mr karas, that this common sense of needing a common government, of needing a political union, was not already known when a common currency was introduced? maybe you were just a little too cowardly and dishonest to tell the public.
mr obermayr, of course they knew that and they said so. it has been said that monetary union is a political project, that integration is irreversible with monetary union, and that we have to take the next steps of integration with monetary union. and we've been working hard for years to do that. the european union is a political grouping, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is a political grouping, and that the european union is a political grouping.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the line of the governments of the central european countries, the commission and the central bank is clearly visible. new bailouts for greece are being put in place, billions of taxpayers are being risked and plans are being made for a european-wide economic government, as we heard a moment ago. the commission's proposals are aimed primarily at tightening the rules of the stability and growth pact, and the enforcement of the maastricht criteria will in future also be enforced by dramatically tightening the penalties. but this pact has not worked so far, and i suspect it will not work in the future. at the same time, taxpayers are being given new support mechanisms for budgetary offenders. you're treating the symptoms without treating the causes. this high-risk strategy will sooner or later turn europe upside down. it is unreasonable that the same performance-oriented people have to pay for the mistakes of others.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the commissioner. he is now the third commissioner to be involved in the nuclear safety, waste and decommissioning agenda. parliament has always supported the commission and we have always supported the transfer of responsibility to the european level. unfortunately, the general council in the nuclear working group did not see these issues as being on the agenda. i am proud that we are now beginning to have a serious discussion on these matters and that the council is also making a real effort to emphasize the european added value here and to respect subsidiarity on the other hand. but i think it is also simply a matter of seeing what we can do in the eighth framework programme on this very sensitive subject. so the science and the question is: what do we assume in the future of harmonization? where do we want mutual recognition? this is particularly important in this area. i think we should also look at what we can focus on in the next few days and hours. i remember very well that commissioner palacio once said that the subject would not be raised until the next supergau. i'm afraid she was right. it is a late insight, but it is time to think about what steps need to be taken at european level. that's not enough. europe must be a leader, especially on the international stage. we should also set standards here, together with the international atomic energy agency. standards which simply guarantee the highest possible level of safety and which ultimately also give us the chance to keep the danger to the public as far back as possible. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner. they have done the right thing and we shall see that parliament and the commission are going to have a great success.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, on the export ban: i agree with the commissioner completely. i hope that we will be able to reach a broad consensus here and support the commission in the vote tomorrow. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. secondly, on citizens' participation: commissioner, you said that we do not need to regulate anything in detail. you're right about the principle. but we will also need to have cross-border citizen participation. because if we have storage facilities close to the border, then you cannot say, 'this is the border, it does not concern the other citizens'. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we are all citizens of europe. as some countries are affected by such deposits close to the border, it would be very important for us to establish certain principles and for the commission to propose certain basic rules so that citizens' participation can be taken seriously and be based on common principles.
i have to say, madam president, to meet the social demand for high standards, but above all to be sovereign, the european union needs a strong common agricultural policy. the european industry must remain competitive. they face major challenges due to fluctuating commodity prices, high production costs and low incomes. low production costs and social, environmental and quality standards in third countries that are not comparable to eu standards are driving down prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the overcapacity of the agricultural sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's about a fair starting point and equal opportunity for all. each country should have the right to take into account the concerns of its citizens, such as food security, the environment, concerns about genetic engineering, and the needs of rural areas, in order to promote a sustainable european agriculture.
i have to say, madam president, i think fukushima has changed the world in terms of co2 emissions, too. it's simply about making sure that the power supply works. we will have to supplement or replace nuclear energy with gas and coal. the burning of gas and coal will of course cause co2 emissions. that is why the 20% we have proposed is already very high. in fact, we should be happy with the reserve that we get from the corresponding efficiency, because with this reserve we can also support the new forms of energy that we need to replace the atom. gas and coal will play an essential role in replacing nuclear energy. i believe that the trade unions and the workers are the most concerned that the co2 policy is the one that is moving jobs out of europe and that the entire raw materials industry, whether it be steel, aluminium or paper, will leave europe if we are too strict here. i'd like to warn you that we're over-researching this area. it has to be feasible and realistic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the draft budget for the financial year 2012 for the first time closely links the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy with the budgetary process. that is how we welcome the work of the honourable member. youth unemployment in europe is on average 20%, in spain as high as 40%. these are frightening numbers. they make it all too clear why young people take to the streets, for example, at puerta de sol, and why there is more and more talk of a lost generation. there is much more to be done for the boys. eu 2020: according to the commission, in this draft budget, some 43.5% of the budgetary appropriations in the declarations of commitments contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. i therefore call on the commission to make more room for adjustment in the long term in the budgetary process this year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we all know, the union must tighten its belt. not only because an increase in the budget in the face of national austerity programmes would be a slap in the face to the citizens, but also because next year there will be a payment into the permanent euro stabilisation mechanism. and these funds must be financed from the already scarce national budgets. if a group on the savings directive wants to avoid a transfer of the annual budget surplus to be transferred back to the member states to the next year, then it is obvious that it wants to give the citizens an x for a u. the budget would thus be increased by a greater amount than the commission had proposed. it may well be that many multiannual programmes are now due for payment and cannot be cancelled at this stage, as the eu could be sued for breach of contract. i think there is enough potential for savings. the first priority, apart from reducing the number of eu agencies, is to finally put the fight against fraud on a firmer footing. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i have to say, madam president, the future of cohesion policy will only be successful if it tackles a number of problems. firstly, what happens to those member states which persistently violate the stability pact? in these cases, the structural funds cannot have the desired effect, but rather provide the funds, and the eu becomes a transfer union without a barrel and a floor, which means that those who receive regional aid must also comply with conditions. secondly, there is no centralisation of the structural funds within the commission. the administrative burden is not reduced, it is increased, and the result would be the creation of expensive decentralized agencies. thirdly, greater efficiency in the use of structural funds. clear objectives and regular evaluations are needed, and ownership must be promoted. the principle of co-financing is to be established in absolute terms. fourthly, turkey's accession would, in addition to all the cultural, social, religious and foreign policy concerns, place a heavy burden on the cohesion fund. realistically, the budget would be blown. you know that, you just don't say it. turkey has also been a recipient of billions of structural funds for years. this approach needs to be critically reconsidered. in short, i hope that in the future regional aid will end up where it makes sense. the commission has also been active in the field of innovation, with a clear focus on innovative projects with a clear output for small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, for citizens in the regions and cities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of regional policy has been underlined today. cohesion and cohesion policy must reach all regions of europe. and by regions i also mean all the people who live in those regions. that is a very important aspect. we have seen in the context of some delegations how useful european funds are for this regional development, for the achievement of social cohesion, but also for women's policy, for gender justice. i can only encourage that, as we have already seen in the implementation review, we should continue to offer more programmes in the future which are widely accepted by the population and which pursue precisely these objectives. we need this ownership to be experienced in the regions of europe. we are at a stage now where we are talking about the intermediate regions. this is very important because europe has helped to create jobs in these regions. i also understand growth as sustainable growth in the first place, if it brings social justice. cohesion policy is at the heart of european policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have unfortunately submitted the request for roll call votes too late for this item. i ask for your understanding and the house's understanding that we can still have a roll call vote in this case in the split vote.
in writing. - mr draghi is a very unsuitable man to be the head of the european central bank. he was vice-chairman and director of the us investment bank goldman sachs, responsible for europe and liaising with national governments. this activity coincides with the period in which greece has been transmitting the falsified figures on its deficit and budget to the eu. in this context, goldman sachs is accused of advising the greeks on the counterfeiting. in addition to this skewed view, draghi is particularly to blame for his uncompromising support for a debt cut in greece and for the bailout payments. as a representative of a southern euro country facing major financial problems, he is also sending the wrong signal to the markets and citizens who do not want a transfer union but a stable currency. the german axel weber would have been the most suitable candidate. but having recognized the wrongness of the measures now being adopted and endorsed by draghi, he did not run for office in the first place. the nomination of dragi can be seen as another nail in the coffin for the euro and a threat to the eu as a whole.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35,000 and 50,000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. in view of the 2,834 redundancies at the automotive company general motors belgium and, as a consequence, also at four suppliers, the egf is to provide for a total of eur 9,593,931 for belgium. i voted for the report because the fund should be allocated to such cases.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of redundancies or other changes in international competition as a result of globalisation. the fact that, following the repeated request of parliament, payment appropriations amounting to eur 47 608 950 are entered in the budget line of the egf is absolutely welcome. i therefore gave my consent to the report.
in writing. - the proposed version of rule 51 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament seeks to provide a legal framework for the future cooperation of several committees of the parliament. the proposal is based on the principle of equality and cooperation. i agreed to it.
in writing. - a customs union has existed between the principality of andorra and the european union since 1990 on the basis of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters. the amendment proposed now provides for the joint committee to adopt implementing measures for customs security provisions. the eu and andorra are expected to abolish prior notification once the level of security is guaranteed in their respective territories. the expansion of the single market rules level is beneficial to both eu citizens and businesses in andorra.
in writing. − the eu-canada agreement on civil aviation safety, which supplements the air transport agreement with canada, aims to remove technical barriers to trade. the main objective is to minimise as far as possible duplication of assessments, tests and checks and to ensure uniform certification. the commission will also be responsible for the implementation of the programme. the cooperation and mutual recognition of certifications should cover the areas of airworthiness and maintenance. the potential for the future lies in full mutual recognition. in addition to the joint committee, which is to deal with practical problems and prevent disputes, joint inspections, investigations and the exchange of safety data are also planned. it is to be welcomed that strict safeguards allow, where necessary, the suspension of the recognition of the findings of the other competent authority or the termination of the agreement in whole or in part. as long as product authorisation procedures are shorter and simpler without lowering safety standards, the agreement is to be welcomed.
in writing. − this recommendation deals with the agreement on civil aviation safety signed on behalf of the (then) european community on 6 may 2009. at present, only six member states have bilateral product certification agreements with canada. these will be repealed when the eu-canada agreement on civil aviation safety enters into force. the strict safeguards allow, if it is advisable, to suspend the recognition of the findings of the other competent authorities or to terminate the agreement. this may be done in full or in part. as long as product authorisation procedures are shorter and simpler without lowering safety standards, the agreement is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the agreement aims to minimise duplication of assessments, tests and checks by allowing both parties to use each other's certification system. this mutual trust in the parties' systems is based on convergence of requirements and regulatory processes, but also on regular consultations between the parties and the establishment of a joint committee. the shorter and cheaper product authorization procedures that this will enable will save millions of dollars annually for companies in this sector and will increase their competitiveness. the agreement makes the market more competitive but also safer, as it obliges the supervisory authorities to cooperate fully.
in writing. − the strategy report on the implementation of operational programmes co-financed under cohesion policy is a new instrument which will be essential for transparency and, in future, for the public's understanding of this complex issue. the court of auditors repeatedly notes enormous irregularities in the payment of subsidies. this instrument, if properly applied, could make a major contribution to stopping this. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals for improvement, particularly those relating to the future quality of the reports drawn up by the member states, so that effective control is ensured in the future.
in writing. the urban environment is one of the most important factors in european development. it is growing very rapidly and concentrates economic power, industry and - above all - a very large number of people, and with it a host of social and infrastructural issues. cities are thus of particular importance in the european union's cohesion policy. this is recognised in the report, and i have therefore given my consent.
in writing. - i have approved the report. one of the reasons why the lisbon strategy failed to achieve its objectives was the lack of integration of cities and regions. the rapporteur proposes, among other things, a fundamental change in the allocation of funds: 'projects should not be designed to exhaust existing resources but to achieve strategic objectives'.
in writing. − the co-financing of cross-border, transnational and interregional projects as the epitome of the eu. the rapporteur proposes a number of improvements, building on weaknesses identified so far. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the rapporteur stresses on several occasions that enhanced coordination and an integrated planning and implementation system are essential to achieve maximum results with the support from the three cohesion policy funds. the long experience provides enough data to take advantage of the current opportunity and to significantly improve european cohesion policy for the future.
in writing. − the objectives of economic growth and employment, as well as competitiveness, will not be achieved by the measures envisaged, as they will stifle the economic development of the member states. the eu is not a single entity, but rather a group of countries, which are all economically and socially interdependent. for this reason, the eurozone should be dissolved as soon as possible. the strong states should join together in a new currency area and the others return to their own currencies. the demand for 'monitoring of national economic policies' in the current situation is socialist state-directness, which has been more than unsuccessful in the past and is a reason for the current financial difficulties within the euro area. there is no democratic legitimacy for such measures, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the commission's proposals are aimed primarily at tightening the rules of the stability and growth pact. at the same time, one support mechanism after another is being created for the "budget offenders" - again from taxpayers' money. it is high time to focus on stable, sovereign economies and the deleveraging of individual states. it is unheard of that the same states, which are always willing to do their best, have to pay for the mistakes of others! not bureaucratic but democratic procedures are necessary to ensure meaningful and effective economic policy coordination at eu level for the benefit of all the people of europe!
in writing. - monitoring of households must be limited to obtaining access to correct figures and data. of course, there should also be recommendations from the commission, for example on debt reduction. but in no way can the member states be told how to spend their money. european governance is neither wanted by the eu citizens nor provided for in the eu treaties. it is a clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity. it is not eu governance but leaving the euro area that can help the countries affected to recover economically. for these reasons, i cannot accept the request.
in writing. - the proposals on economic governance clearly violate the principle of subsidiarity. i voted against this report because it is a serious blow to european integration and to economic and social conditions in the member states.
in writing. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the budgetary discipline of the member states is respected. i hear the message, but i lack faith. and there is a silent majority in europe that thinks so too. interventions in the budgets of the member states must be rejected. other ways and solutions must be found and parliament should urgently discuss them, which has not yet been done. the wrong developments of recent years must be consistently drawn to the right conclusions. i am not going to vote for the motion for a resolution, unless other alternatives are considered.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for infringements of the maastricht criteria. but this pact has not worked so far. i do not believe that it should suddenly be able to function through new directives. that's why i didn't agree.
in writing. − in the past, the stability criteria have not been met. it is unlikely that incentives will help in the future. it is doubtful whether the european parliament and national parliaments will be able to play a substantial role in any monitoring process. macroeconomic imbalances in the eu and the euro area can, in my view, be effectively tackled primarily by splitting the euro into two currency areas. further bailouts are not a requirement of justice and will cause great difficulties in the northern eu countries in the future. i agree with the basic reasoning of the report, but i do not agree with the approach, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. - i strongly doubt that the stability pact, which has not been working so far, will suddenly become a panacea in one of the most difficult economic periods in the eu's history. it would be desirable, but given the current crisis, it remains a wet dream. we can't afford any more rescue packages now. it is also highly unjust to intervene in sovereign coffers to save tax evaders with taxpayers' money. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - the planned measures do not require banks to participate. but a rescheduling will be inevitable. the taxpayer is not responsible for the misguided speculation of banks. as the example of iceland shows, an orderly state bankruptcy can be the way to go. european high culture has its origins in greece. it seems that it could end in greece, given the inability of the political actors to see cause and effect and the political irresponsibility. i voted against the report.
in writing. − the dishonesty of the greek government, which provided inaccurate data on its budgetary situation, has contributed to the current crisis of the euro and the eu. the socialist government of greece has failed to make the painful and necessary structural changes after the last bailout. all the measures envisaged for european governance are aimed at disempowering the states, increasing the influence of central powers in brussels and restricting democracy in europe. the lack of involvement of the banks and investors who have made fat profits in recent years shows how much influence these circles actually have on the political elite in europe. while the top ten thousand are being cashed in, all payments to greece are going to international investors, not the greek people, and the people of europe are being placed under new and unjustified burdens. i have voted against this report because it is absolutely unacceptable.
in writing. - new bailouts for greece are being launched, billions of taxpayers are being squandered and plans for a pan-european economic government are being hatched. all member states must save to cope with the burdens of the euro crisis, the bailout and the greek bailouts. these austerity measures are at the expense of the wage earners and the weakest. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i agreed to the outcome of the negotiations on the consumer rights directive because a balanced compromise could be found between the interests of consumers and those of the economy. we are helping to strengthen the internal market and thus to strengthen europe by harmonizing consumer rights. the directive allows businesses to cross borders safely and makes the internal market a step closer to the european home market. the new rules give consumers greater security and confidence when shopping, especially online. unfortunately, some provisions go beyond the scope of the directive. i would have welcomed it if the council had been prepared to find solutions which were more friendly to the craftsmen and therefore more appropriate. in particular, it would have been possible to include the initiation element in the definition of off-premises contracts.
in writing. - to provide an incentive for businesses to act cross-border, certain conditions should be created. this includes consumer protection, which should be brought to a high level throughout the eu. in particular, there is still a great deal of uncertainty on the consumer side, particularly in the case of online purchases, as there is no clear legal basis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i voted in favour of the report because it is absolutely essential to be able to offer consumers a certain level of protection, which should be standardised throughout the eu, even when they are buying abroad.
in writing. − since businesses operate across borders in the single market, it is also sensible to provide cross-border protection for consumers. however, harmonizations may not be made with a wooden hammer and a crusher. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. - i have reservations about the management of radioactive waste, because the initiative in question, although it contains some approaches, is not suited to solving the fundamental problem, which is why i abstained. although the nuclear industry has been looking for solutions to radioactive waste for five decades, we are still at the beginning. nuclear waste is transported in millions of tonnes taxpayer-funded high-risk shipments across europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. nuclear waste storage in the immediate vicinity of nuclear power plants and/or in earthquake-prone areas is also particularly risky. in the case of the krsko camp, both factors are worryingly true.
in writing. - i have already drawn up a proposal some time ago for greater safety of nuclear reactors in the danube region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised. the largely outdated design leads to poor safety standards. there are always dangerous incidents that are usually covered up. the neighbouring countries, such as austria, are often not even informed. the coastal states are also not sufficiently or not at all consulted in the eia procedures. however, funds are now being allocated to develop and finance decommissioning concepts for power reactors. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - the eu must tighten its belt. not only because an increase in the budget in the face of national austerity programmes would be a slap in the face to the citizens, but also because next year there will be a payment into the permanent euro stabilisation mechanism. and this cash must be financed from the already scarce national budgets. it may well be that many multiannual programmes are now due for payment and cannot be cancelled at this stage, as the eu could be sued for breach of contract. however, there is sufficient saving potential. i have voted against this draft budget for the reasons i have just mentioned.
in writing. the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 december adopted a resolution on the future of the european union. the commission's proposals are aimed primarily at tightening the rules of the stability and growth pact. the maastricht criteria will be enforced in future by means of early warnings and drastic penalties. but this pact has not worked so far, and it probably will not work in the future. it is high time to focus on stable, sovereign economies and the deleveraging of individual states. it is unheard of that the same states, which are always willing to do their best, have to pay for the mistakes of others!
in writing. − with the vote on the cap report, we are deciding on the cornerstones of the future eu agricultural policy. i welcome the decision to make eu agricultural policy more sustainable, to strengthen the competitiveness of european agriculture and to seek a balance between the old and new member states. i am vehemently against cuts in the eu's agricultural budget, the cap must remain a key area in the eu budget. for eu citizens, the benefits of food quality and safety, animal welfare and environmental standards, and the vitality of rural areas are vital. these additional services are not excluded from the market. agricultural subsidies are benefits which give farming families planning security. it is essential to stick to the 'two-pillar model' as it has been up to now. only the interplay between the first and second pillars will allow innovation to be both competitive and sustainable. the second pillar is a strong element for sustainable agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i welcome the fact that small farms are to be given more support by a new staggering of payments. a ceiling for direct payments can also be discussed. the european parliament's resolution of principle adopted today sets out the main points which the european commission will have to use as a reference point when drawing up the legislative package. agricultural policy must remain a core element of european policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr klute, you have said that you, as a representative of your group, would like to get out of derivatives. do you have an exit scenario for that, too, if you could make a political statement? what are your visions?
i have to say, madam president, most of us remember the historic meeting of mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan 25 years ago in iceland, when they were discussing the issue that we must be talking about today: disarmament. i am surprised that derivatives in their present form - even if they are somewhat curbed by the current measures - are still so heavily defended when you see what they do. they have proved to be a catalyst for the explosion of wealth, but of course also for extreme destruction. the figures have been given. i congratulate mr langen on the fact that you have succeeded in preventing so many attempts to influence the situation, even if they are based on national interests. before we get too deep into the details, the big problem is not solved, the genie is still out of the bottle. we are trying to reduce the risks in the world financial markets as a global community, if any, to reduce the risks slowly. the report is certainly a step in the right direction, but - and you have mentioned this, mr langen - the national banks, which are caught between the savings banks and the really big banks, remain a huge risk. we have great difficulties in the private sector. and i do not agree that we should let the pension funds get away with it as they are now. but there is still hope that much more will happen in the field of mifid than has been thought.
i have to say, madam president, in fact, over 80% of derivatives transactions are settled otc. the majority of derivatives are therefore very difficult to control. moreover, these are not standardised products. this creates complex interdependencies. the effects of the financial crisis were very clear. over-the-counter derivatives added to the uncertainty in the markets. the information was available only to the parties and therefore the risks could not be estimated. transparency is therefore important. contracts should be reported to the trade repository within one day. we must not negligently jeopardize the stability of the financial markets by using opaque products, because derivatives trading is not a game but a bundling of risks, some of which have serious consequences for the real economies. i am thinking in particular of the commodity derivatives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall address my question to my predecessor. yes, we should reach an agreement with the council. that sounds pretty good. i would like to know how my predecessor sees the situation: does he think that the council is lax and not ready to be transparent? i would also like to know, in particular, what role national governments should play - an important or rather an insignificant role? what is his assessment of esma's role and mission?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad to be able to make some critical remarks on this. in short selling, you sell a security that you don't own or that you just borrowed. it allows speculators to bet on falling prices. these complex and opaque instruments were the key cause of the financial crisis. we therefore need a fundamental ban on speculative short selling in forward transactions. the ban must be comprehensive, however, and cover uncovered credit default swaps and short sales, especially of government bonds. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the budget. finally, there is a need to strengthen sanction mechanisms in the financial services sector. the euro crisis should have made it clear that not all financial transactions that are profitable in the short term are economically and ethically acceptable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner barnier, you said at the beginning that it was important to make dynamic progress on this issue. i share that view, but i would also remind you that we have already provided a passage in the dossier on alternative investment fund managers as members of parliament which aims to prohibit short selling without cover. it didn't come to that. a separate proposal has been put forward. i originally wrote the opinion of the legal affairs committee on this subject, but then had my name removed because i believe that there should be no compromise here. we need a strict ban on short selling. credit default swaps on government bonds should be banned. i can only congratulate the economic committee, which has made constructive progress in its work, on its success so far, and hope that the member states will be a little more reasonable in the final outcome.
i have to say, madam president, as is well known, financial markets and the securities traded on them are becoming increasingly complex and therefore more opaque and incomprehensible for investors. the fact that this is not just a problem for traditional retail investors was made clear by the financial crisis in the united states. it revealed that european banking institutions were also buying up huge quantities of interlocking securities which were ultimately worthless. in addition to strict control of financial markets and the restriction of certain speculative practices such as short selling, i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the various compensation systems for investors. the amendment of the directive in question must, in my view, be influenced in particular by the consumer protection aspect. the proposals for the commission text drawn up by the rapporteur in this connection are therefore to be welcomed. in particular, for investors who invest across borders - and i think the majority will do so - there needs to be legal certainty and predictability about any claims. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. unlike my predecessor, i believe it is important to actually support the establishment of this agency. i have often been sceptical about the establishment of agencies. in that case, i'm happy to support it. firstly, i know that mr coelho has been in charge of the negotiations, and that is why i know that the result will be positive. you can count on it. secondly, the european commission has shown by the way it has handled the schengen information system that it cannot be entrusted with the management of large it information systems. and thirdly, i think it would be useful to be able to manage three large information systems, namely the schengen information system, the visa information system and eurodac, under one roof. this will undoubtedly have a synergistic effect. it is also important that the tasks of the agency have been clarified, and that they are not those of making policy decisions but rather those of managing these three information systems to a high standard. i also think that training should be provided so that we have the same standards in all countries for the implementation and use of the systems. finally, i would like to mention that i hope that this agreement on the agency will also open a new discussion on how to link the data systems in a meaningful way in justified cases! i would point out that this would be particularly useful in the crisis situation we are now experiencing in north africa. we know that criminals use this system to cross the border and apply for asylum here, to smuggle drug couriers or even terrorists through the asylum. if we give europol the possibility of using these systems, it will help to increase the security of our citizens in europe. i would therefore welcome a discussion in this direction.
i have to say, madam president, better cooperation and a variety of computer systems should compensate for the disappearance of internal frontiers. to date, the former flagship project of the schengen information system, sis ii, has been particularly notable for its explosion in costs and constant delays. the usefulness of an it agency of its own must, in my view, also be questioned. theoretically, it should link the visa databases and the digital information on asylum seekers and criminals better than before. the scale of such a computer project is clear when one considers that sis was originally designed to hold 15 million records and that the requirements have now increased to 100 million, not least because of national differences. if even within one system, namely sis and sis ii, it is not possible to coordinate data without problems, then the critical question has to be asked how it is possible for a separate it agency to link different systems. that seems rather difficult to me.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have only three very simple and brief questions for the commissioner. the commission has already issued several legal opinions on the subject of pnr. we have asked the commission to provide us with the three most recent. the result was that we received only the covers of two reports, the third report was not sent at all. my question to you is: do you understand this as a transparency policy and when will you publish the latest legal service reports? this is very important, because there is a suspicion that the law is being violated. point 2 on proportionality: the storage period of the drafts varies between 5 and 15 years. my specific question to you is: what do you consider to be the length of storage that is no longer proportionate? 15, 20, 30, 100 years? maybe you could give us some specific numbers. point 3 on necessity: to date the commission has not provided sufficient figures on costs. when will the commission finally commission an independent study that guarantees transparency of costs?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's eloquent announcements that it would ensure data protection have now been exposed by the commission's own legal service as the same blunder we have been criticizing from the outset. fundamental rights, human rights and data protection are apparently foreign words to americans in the so-called fight against terrorism. millions of records are stored, airlines are forced to share data, and passengers are denied entry to the united states without disclosing any suspicious facts. the commission should have, as part of its negotiating mandate, put an end to the unlawful extortion of airlines to release data. while the australian agreement set retention periods of five and a half years without releasing sensitive data, the us department of homeland security is to continue to have virtually unrestricted access to all personal data for 15 years. george orwell says hello. the storage of data on suspects is one thing, the hoarding of data on innocent citizens is something that is unacceptable!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. much has already been said about pnr agreements. data protection is regulated in the eu by article 16 tfeu and article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. the joint bilateral efforts against terrorism are out of the question. however, i would like to make it clear that the protection of the privacy of our citizens is of the utmost importance and holds a very high value for them. i would like to stress that the new us-eu agreement has a longer retention period than the old one: one of the points that absolutely must be changed! in the words of ambassador eacho: 'freedom without security is fragile, security without freedom is repressive.' so we have to find the right balance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a rotating presidency has two tasks. on the one hand, it must develop and possibly complete the dossiers relating to current business and, on the other, it must also serve as a model for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the croatian dossier, which was of course particularly important to me, has been handled well, as has the roma strategy. thank you very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you can argue that this is domestic policy. but, mr prime minister, you know very well that today in europe - that is the very purpose of europe - domestic policy is also european policy and european policy has corresponding effects also at home. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. they also had to change the failed media law, although the european commission was very lenient in its assessment of this law. as far as the constitution is concerned, you know that the venice commission has criticised not only the process but also some of the essential elements of this constitution. the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, has also expressed strong criticism. mr. prime minister, you always say you want to join the year 1949. but there was also the year 1956. as a very young person, i witnessed this revolution in austria, with its great goals of pluralism, media freedom, freedom of speech. it would be good to join the year 1956 in particular, the year of the great revolution with these freedoms which are european values and european objectives. this is not just a criticism of your government by the socialists, as you keep saying - at least as the leader of fidesz. they were there when hillary clinton, a few days ago, spoke very critically in the hungarian parliament at an event in honour of tom lantos, a distinguished hungarian-american congressman. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply, and i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. we all have to be vigilant, not only in hungary, but in view of developments in hungary in particular. yes, you have a two-thirds majority. you can do whatever you want with it, theoretically. but in a democracy of european design, what the critics say, what the opposition says, and not just what the two-thirds majority says, also counts. mr president, i would like to thank the european people's party for the support it has given to the european parliament. that is your right, although it is the first time that after the many presidencies i have seen, a presidency thanks only one, her party. but democracy is not only about those who support it, it is also about those who criticize it. that is what we mean by european democracy. i would like you to approach the goals of pluralism, media freedom and freedom of expression. as the great hungarian tom lantos has said in america and in hungary, it would be right and important, especially in view of the european responsibility, to say yes to pluralism, to media freedom, to freedom of expression and yes to criticism, because criticism is part of democracy just as much as those who support you, whether with a two-thirds majority or not. majorities exist to be exploited, but also to take into account opponents and critics. that is our understanding of european democracy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i would like to thank you for your reply. firstly, mr ban ki-moon has been supported in his election as secretary-general by many democracies. secondly, i have just mentioned the venice commission. this commission - and you know this very well - includes a great many people who have nothing to do with social democracy, but rather with your party, representatives from poland and other countries. democracy is not a question of parties, but of personal and political self-understanding. i wanted to appeal to this, including to prime minister orbán.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the hungarian presidency began with events in domestic politics that caused unfounded excitement. there was a difficult environment: the debt crisis, the euro crisis, the nuclear disaster and, finally, the wave of migration due to the arab spring. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am thinking here of the accession negotiations with iceland and those concluded with croatia, as well as the danube strategy. i would like to point out, however, that in this area i am somewhat lacking in the discussion on nuclear energy and also in the environmental compatibility issue. and i would also like to doubt that the enlargement of the schengen area will actually bring a higher level of security for our citizens. all in all, a good job, and i would like to thank our hungarian neighbours very much.
in writing. at eu level and a council presidency should be assessed in this context the hungarian presidency has achieved a lot. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. a number of other actions were also launched, such as the danube strategy, the european semester, the opening of accession negotiations with iceland and the quasi-conclusion of those with croatia. the hungarian presidency of the council, with its lack of criticism of the media law, has once again shown that the brussels wheelhouse is not so much about democratic legitimacy as it is about conformity with the eu establishment and that it is not too bad to bring domestic policy issues to the european stage during the presidency. it is remarkable how good a figure orbán has maintained with his patriotic government in this turbulent six months, which was not only overshadowed by domestic political controversies, by which they wanted to cancel hungary, but in which the japanese nuclear disaster, the arab spring and the aftermath of the debt crisis fell. brussels is well advised to finally recognise the importance of democratic legitimacy and to accept the will of the people, whether referenda on eu issues or on national content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are at a dead end in europe and i very much support commissioner dalli's proposal, which is a first step in the right direction. i also support the rapporteur, mrs lepage, who is trying to give more specific reasons and to list them more. what united us in the epp was our desire for greater legal certainty. this has been achieved in particular by the introduction of the ordre public argument, which is in line with the wto. that is a major reason. nevertheless, we in the austrian epp delegation support the lepage report because it simply points in the right direction in the sense that it lists the concrete reasons which enable member states to oppose the cultivation of gmos. we all know that the efsa inspections are controversial to some extent, both in terms of their time horizon and also in terms of their regional and local balance. it is therefore right to demand that other scientific bases be recognised here. member states should have the widest possible right to ban gmos on their territory. this report is therefore moving in the right direction. unfortunately, we have these blocking minorities everywhere in the council, and it is to be feared that, although we are likely to get a large majority in parliament for the lepage report, we will not get any further in the council. i think that is a great pity for the european consumer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal is well-intentioned but does not go far enough. according to eurobarometer, 61% of eu citizens are uncomfortable with gmos, and ultimately the majority of citizens should decide what is on their plate. an eu-wide ban must therefore be the consequence. there is also a reason why genetic seeds are not bound by borders birds, insects, wind, water carry them all over the eu. the eu must also stand up to the us and the who. the ecj has shown in the past that europe can make its own way. i am thinking here of the decision against the importation of us cattle treated with growth hormones. we are not here to represent the interests of the us agricultural lobby. we have an obligation to protect our citizens from risky technologies. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the internal market is not a goal in itself. it's about protecting the health of our fellow citizens!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very glad that we can have this discussion today, and i think it is also very important to note that this discussion today is not about passing judgment on the quality of genetically modified seeds, on genetic engineering in general, but simply about what the procedure is so that countries within the european union can decide for themselves whether to allow the cultivation of genetically modified material on their territory. i think it's high time we had a clear policy here. it is also high time that we showed respect to the people of europe, who still have so many questions about genetically modified seeds. there's a great fear. we have a duty to address these fears, and individual governments must now be able to decide whether to allow genetically modified material. i hope that this report will be received as it is presented today, because it also offers at last the chance to take these environmental considerations and these fears of the people seriously and to shift the decisions back to where they have to be made on this issue in the first place.
in writing. the adoption of the report has made it possible to move towards a common approach to the right of self-determination of the member states in the field of gmo cultivation. each country should decide for itself whether or not to grow genetically modified seeds on its own land. austria wants to abandon the use of genetic engineering. as a country of quality production, agriculture is highly valued by consumers, who reward sustainable, gmo-free food production. the ban on the planting of vines is therefore a key issue for austria's future. the commission's original legislative proposal also left uncertainty as to its compatibility with wto rules and whether coexistence could be excluded. the strict rules of coexistence are important to avoid costly liability issues being passed on to farmers. member states must be able to prevent the unintended presence of gmos in both conventional and organic crops. as a farmer's representative, i supported the parliament's efforts to create legal certainty.
in writing. − the amending budget is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for the immediate damage in slovenia, the czech republic and croatia caused by the floods of the previous year. due to its status as a candidate country, croatia is eligible for support from the eusf, but the eu financial assistance is paid from a different heading than that for the other member states concerned. the aim of the fund is not to compensate for private damage but to rebuild infrastructure. it is a refinancing instrument. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − theoretically, the new it agency should link the visa databases and the digital information on asylum seekers and criminals better than before. the scale of such a computer project is clear when one considers that sis was originally designed to hold 15 million records and that the requirements have now increased to 100 million, not least because of national differences. and if even within one system, namely sis or sis ii, where data should already be available to eurojust and europol, a problem-free data reconciliation is not possible, then the critical question has to be asked how a separate it agency should be able to link different systems. the eu's it agency is a key element in the eu's strategy to improve the quality of its services and to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make decisions. i abstained because of my doubts.
in writing. − in june 2009, the commission presented two own-initiative proposals for the establishment of an agency responsible for the operational management of large-scale information technology systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the agency is intended to ensure control of the eu's external borders, together with the reform, i.e. the reinforcement, of the frontex regulation.
in writing. − taking into account the economic and social situation of the outermost regions, eu measures to support them have so far been very successful, including the full or partial exemption from the special tax 'octroi de mer'. an interim report from france confirms the positive balance in terms of maintaining local economic activity and thus employment. i therefore agreed to extend the exemption to a list of products.
in writing. − according to the consumer barometer, the telecommunications market and internet service providers are the most frequently faced with complaints. the single european emergency number 112 will enable eu citizens to call the emergency services at any time and in any place even the most inaccessible . a triennial review of the universal service directive is also intended to clarify whether further improvements are needed. the europe 2020 strategy aims to make broadband services available to all eu citizens by 2013 to promote social inclusion and improve competitiveness, and to achieve higher internet speeds by 2020. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - i have agreed with the report by my colleague on greater efficiency and fairness in the retail market. retail trade employs 20 million people in the eu, accounts for 4.2% of eu gdp and about 20% of small and medium-sized enterprises are located in the retail sector. unfortunately, the number of national barriers to the free movement of goods and services with negative effects is continuing to increase. the report calls on member states to make these fundamental freedoms possible across the union on the basis of fair, balanced and transparent trade relations and to invest in innovative solutions for transport and logistics, energy efficiency, packaging and waste management in order to provide retailers with access to high-quality products.
in writing. − during the 2010 financial year, the european union collected around eur 4.5 billion in fines and interest on late payment in the area of competition policy. i have followed the rapporteur's vote today on the point that this money should be invested in 2011 for this year's eu projects. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. − the regulation aims to remove obstacles to cooperation between enforcement authorities in detecting, investigating and bringing to an end or banning infringements of consumer protection laws in the eu. the disappearance of borders has also given fraudsters new ideas on how to deceive consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind. the commission has also published a report on the internet. i have approved the proposed measures which i hope will really improve consumer protection within the eu.
in writing. - the common market naturally also brought unscrupulous traders, who in particular profit unrestrictedly from cross-border activity, since - unlike trade - the corresponding cross-border enforcement of consumer rights is certainly hampered by bureaucratic obstacles. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already adopted a number of measures to ensure that the consumer protection legislation is enforced.
in writing. − the past financial crisis has clearly demonstrated the concerns about the resilience and transparency of the otc derivatives market due to the frequent use of financial markets by non-financial corporations, especially in the commodities and energy sectors, and due to the use of financial instruments for hedging. the regulations must now be assessed clearly, otherwise there will be market risks which could have a negative impact, especially in the food raw materials and energy production sectors. the systemic risk of otc derivatives should be minimised and fine-tuning of non-financial corporate regulation should be undertaken. the amendment aims to simplify procedures, avoid clearing shocks, remove information barriers and introduce clear criteria for regulatory decisions.
in writing. the stolojan report also includes improving the transparency of the supervision of financial conglomerates and introducing stress tests at the level of individual financial conglomerates. this will allow for the early detection of future trends in crisis situations and the initiation of countermeasures. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. the proposed additional directive aims to fill the gaps in the existing banking and insurance directives. the aim is to ensure that financial holding companies in these sectors are not allowed to circumvent the sector's regulatory framework. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action.
in writing. − the financial crisis has shaken up a whole range of highly risky financial products, some of which were sold to investors as safe investments. the commission has already taken a number of decisions in this area. for example, jpmorgan is alleged to have advised investors against better knowledge of mortgage-backed securities when prices in the real estate market had not risen for a long time, and in this context also concealed the fact that a hedge fund was involved in the compilation, which relied on the maturity of the securities. investors, including the pension fund of the car company gm, had lost almost everything. speculative losses by pension funds are a particular problem in this context. from an austrian point of view, the losses of the vienna chamber of commerce and the joint pension fund of the chambers of commerce in millions of dollars, or the cases in which legally acquired occupational pension rights were simply outsourced to pension funds without the knowledge and consent of the persons concerned by means of highly risky contracts, could be cited. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. despite the many positive aspects, this report does not in any way address this problem, which amounts to a failure of the second pillar of the pension system. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - the revision of directive 97/9/ec and the supplementary investment services directive adopted in 1997 and replaced by the mifid directive is due to numerous complaints from investors who have suffered significant losses. the aim is to restore investor confidence in the financial system. the proposal aims to optimise the internal market for investment services and to increase investor protection and confidence. the aim is to improve investor compensation, close loopholes in the regulatory system and reduce the differences between the protection of clients of brokerage firms and the protection of bank investors. the proposal is based on the principle of proportionality, all solutions have been evaluated in terms of cost-effectiveness and the specific characteristics of the markets in the member states are to be taken into account.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal that eu countries should in future decide on their own whether to restrict or ban genetically modified organisms (gmos). the report is a success for those eu countries whose populations are particularly health-conscious and anti-genetic engineering. around 20% of the world's seeds are genetically modified. it is not yet clear whether farmers actually use less pesticides when using gm seeds, an argument that is always made by the gene proponents. another concern is that the seeds have been changed to one-year seeds, creating artificial dependencies. the field of genetic engineering is still one in which the consequences and long-term effects are not clear. for example, critics of genetic engineering have repeatedly suggested a link between the explosive increase in allergic reactions in recent years and genetically modified foods. besides allergies, there are many other side effects to be feared, especially damage to the kidneys and liver. not to mention the lack of understanding of the interactions of genetic modification, pesticides, radioactive radiation and other chemicals.
in writing. − under article 4 (1) and (2) of the lisbon treaty, the eu has no power to interfere in the process of drawing up a new hungarian constitution. the european parliament is a forum for the exchange of views on the future of the union. in fact, their agitation is pure hypocrisy. it is clearly measured with two measures, when one thinks of the discriminatory provisions of the czech constitution (the so-called beneš decrees), which are not subject to criticism. the european union has a duty to respect the national identity and the will of the people of a country, as the treaties and the conservative hungarian members of parliament have demanded. the democratic will of hungary must be respected. i consider the new hungarian constitution to be exemplary and i fully support it.
in writing. - whether climate change is one or the apocalypse may be a matter of debate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. for all the lofty ideals and goals of environmental protection and public health, it must not be overlooked that the real environmental abusers are the united states and china, which are not getting any economic benefit from their disregard for nature. the first thing they are asked to do is to change their environmental policy. the eu is called upon to act in the interests of its own economy and employment and to adapt its environmental policy to the global economic competitive situation.
in writing. - structural and cohesion policies are particularly important in the face of global competition, as the european economic fabric has become increasingly complex in recent years. in this context, it is important to increase support for smes in their approach to international growth markets. in particular, it will be important to actually increase support for these major employers in the eu. to date, despite years of promises, eu strategies have all too often focused on large companies and multinational groups. overall, policies that promote growth and innovation are of particular importance. the structural and cohesion policies are based on the idea of financial compensation, but they still do not address rural areas enough. i agree with the rapporteur who is against the creation of a new category of aid.
in writing. − it has been more than thirty-six years since the european union's regional policy was created and twelve years since the creation of cohesion policy. both initiatives are based on the european union's fundamental principle of solidarity, which aims to bridge the significant territorial, economic and social disparities between member states and their regions, but the results are still weak; the disparities between individual member states have even increased. this is why, firstly, cohesion policy funding must be maintained at least at the current level. secondly, it is necessary to clearly and precisely specify that the gdp of the member states must continue to be the main criterion of the european union's cohesion policy, with the primary criterion being those member states whose gdp is less than 75% of the eu average. the poorest regions in the richest countries are excluded from cohesion policy because they have a much greater capacity to support their poorer regions with their own resources. unfortunately, this report does not fully reflect these well-founded claims.
in writing. the fifth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion takes stock of the policies pursued so far in this area. this report shows that past cohesion policy has made a significant contribution to job creation and the construction of critical infrastructure, as well as to improvements in environmental protection. according to this report, parliament's proposals for the design of cohesion policy after 2013 focus on tailor-made operational programmes that are result-oriented and work towards the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted in the form of a grant to a company in difficulty, or to a company in difficulty, or to a company in difficulty. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - there is nothing in principle to oppose to development aid. it can help countries to emerge from their abject poverty. of course, it is always important to bear in mind that almost all eu member states are suffering from an exorbitant public debt burden that will be borne by future generations. in recent years, many experts have pointed out that development aid has led to a high degree of dependence and has thus proved counterproductive. however, this report attempts to take a more sensible approach, namely to provide help for self-help. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − to date, all energy policy strategies at eu level have failed to deliver the desired results. the liberalization in particular has not brought the promised financial relief to customers, and some invoices are still difficult to read. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, the eu continues to place too much emphasis on nuclear power and too little emphasis on the development of alternative energy sources in its support programmes. many concepts are also still in their infancy. for example, the problem with wind power is storage. at present, only pumped storage power stations are capable of storing electricity on a large scale without dramatic losses in efficiency. the projected doubling of electricity generation therefore requires a corresponding increase in the number of storage power stations. in addition, the integration of renewable energy sources can only be achieved if the transmission networks are developed and strengthened accordingly. in this sense, the present concept has not proved to be sufficiently well-suited to me, and i have rejected it.
in writing. − the high dependence of the eu countries on a single gas supplier is largely due to the underdeveloped and in many places outdated energy infrastructure between member states. legislation is needed in the european union to ensure the establishment and development of such infrastructure, as it would remove existing barriers to energy security and efficiency and promote not only the diversification of energy supply but also the combined potential and economic potential of member states. both the lisbon treaty and the eu's third energy package have identified energy interconnections as one of the eu's priorities. the eu must maximise all available resources, including by mobilising private finance, to develop europe's energy infrastructure as a priority and avoid a single-supplier dominance in the future. the overwhelming and divergent interests of the eu countries must be balanced and the fragmentation of the internal market overcome. the european union must create a single energy market with different energy suppliers, stable prices and a level playing field for all member states. the report on the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond has set out these key objectives and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − energy infrastructure projects of the future are mainly smart grids citizens need to be able to monitor their household appliances in order to be able to make their own electricity consumption sustainable. citizens must be informed and actively involved in project planning from the outset. the planning must be as transparent as possible, so that the citizens can be involved in the content. the cost of investment is undoubtedly enormous, but the benefits - security of supply, job creation, pollution control and gdp growth - are significant.
in writing. − social services of general interest (sgi) are a subcategory of services of general interest (sgi) and have characteristics that go beyond sgi, such as health care, statutory and universally available services for the individual, prevention, social cohesion and social integration. health and social services account for 5% of the economy and employ some 21.4 million people. lt ceep dai accounts for 26% of eu gdp eur 2 423 billion and employs 64 million people. reform programmes and clear legal bases for sdai are urgently needed to deal positively with the difficulties in the procurement and state aid rules, and reforms are also needed in the areas of voluntary organisations and the position of social enterprises.
in writing. − eu development aid must aim at reducing and eradicating poverty in the long term values such as human rights, democracy, ownership and partnership are important. eu development assistance aims at broad-based and sustainable growth, basic social services and education. the oecd requires that at least 20% of the funds be allocated to basic social security. the growth strategy proposes to strengthen the private sector and smes, supporting them through microfinance, especially for disadvantaged groups such as minorities, small farmers and women. it advocates that the poor should be part of economic growth, not just the recipients. other measures include promoting sustainable agriculture and investing in renewable energy, which has the potential to create jobs and promote sustainable development.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member states' handling of the eu budget is notoriously difficult and often contradictory. the draft mff 2014-2020 presented by the commission can be described as bold and indicative. a large majority of this house will support the own resources proposals. i particularly welcome the proposal to introduce a financial transaction tax. it supplements the existing taxation of labour, the environment and goods, and distributes the tax burden more equitably. it is above all socially balanced, vertically. in its draft, the commission always speaks of several possible sources of eu own resources. the question is what other type of tax is possible besides a financial transaction tax. ideally, it should be a resource that supports other eu 2020 objectives in addition to its original mission. in this context, i ask the commission to pursue the idea of a carbon tax, even if this is a difficult issue for all of us politically. in any case, it can be seen as an urgently needed and sustainable 'investment in the future'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are hearing from everyone, especially in the net contributor member states, save, save, save. at the same time, the european union is being asked to pay for education and knowledge, for renewable energy, for all the areas where we think there is a need to invest. this can't be over. who's gonna pay for this? the european union is seen by some - and i apologize to the interpreters - as something like an egg-laying, egg-laden cow, a construct that finances everything and no one cares where the money comes from. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the commission is now finally proposing massive own resources, a financial transaction tax, which many people - including myself, when i was a member of the austrian national council - have already advocated. i am not going to go into that. i hope you will succeed in putting this into practice with the council so that this bargaining with the member states for every penny will finally stop and the european union will actually have more own resources to implement the necessary investments and not have to wait constantly for the member states to say yes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it took over three years and several food scandals before a compromise was finally reached. the compulsory labelling of analogue cheeses and glued meat is progressing. cheese not made from milk and ham made from aggregated residues must not be sold to the consumer, let alone put in front of him without any indication. but the labelling of meat does not go far enough. only fresh meat is recorded, not processed products. for example, meat for chicken nuggets often comes from brazil or thailand, and for bacon and prosciutto, pork rarely comes from the region but from a little further north, sometimes being transported across europe for 900 kilometres. the report is a long overdue step in the right direction. but we cannot sit back and wait for the next scandal to come up and then act.
in writing. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the compromise reached with the council on consumer information on foodstuffs is, in my view, a great success. the resulting uniform food labelling will improve consumer protection. the aim is to provide consumers with a quick overview of the ingredients and origin of the products, as well as other important information. the health of consumers is a top priority, which is why recognised allergens are highlighted in the list of ingredients. in order to prevent consumers from being misled, misleading information concerning appearance, description or representation is prohibited. it is in this area in particular that legal certainty must exist and that is why clear rules are needed. in the case of fresh meat, the origin of the meat must be indicated. the commission will also examine the possibility and potential costs of indicating the place of birth, fattening and slaughter. the provision of such data is welcome, but there must be a balance between costs and information for the consumer.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank you very much. i think we have something here that we need very badly. i would like to concentrate on one part of the report, namely food and feed safety, and particularly paragraphs 23 and 22. this is about dioxin and the dioxin contamination of feed and food, something that has been a real concern of ours recently. the best legislation is useless if it is not vigorously implemented in the member states. i would ask the member states, and above all the commission, to pay particular attention to dioxin contamination and to review the limit values for fishmeal. dioxin is not produced intentionally. dioxins are a group of chemicals that occur naturally but are not degradable. they are not water soluble, they prefer to collect in the fat tissue and they accumulate, that is, they become more and more. and we now know -- although the detection methods are a little bit complicated -- that it's detectable. we urge that these limits be reviewed and that it be determined whether contamination of the scale now being experienced by the feed ing system can be prevented. i would urge you, commissioner, to intervene in the member states, also in connection with our future agricultural policy, so that, particularly in the agricultural sector, care is taken to ensure that our soils are not further contaminated with dioxin.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur because, of course, feed is the basis of a healthy diet and the feed industry is making a great effort to bring standards up to the highest possible level throughout europe. it is therefore important that we also include specific programmes in the 8th framework programme for research into animal feedingstuffs, so that the health of the production of feed and foodstuffs is guaranteed accordingly. here europe has a great chance of being seen as the healthy europe on the international markets. and i think we should take this opportunity.
i have to say, madam president, bse is caused by prions, an abnormal form of the protein, which cause spongy changes in brain tissue. i would remind you of the cases of cjd in humans, the cases of bse in cattle and scrapie in sheep and goats. bse had spread rapidly in cattle in 1997/98 due to bse-contaminated processed animal proteins. the strict measures have caused a drastic decline. this is about the health and safety of people and animals. the precautionary principle must therefore be applied to ensure the highest possible level of consumer protection and food safety. mrs roth-behrendt, with all due respect for your work, i understand the concerns of my constituents if this ban is lifted!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to find a compromise. if you look at the different traffic balances, you can see that where there is a lot of non-native traffic, there are big differences in accident rates between citizens or residents of the region and those who are coming to this country for the first time. what's the reason? it is partly because you are driving in unfamiliar territory, but also because, unfortunately, there is no transparency in road traffic, and in the end, you only follow the rules when there is a threat of a fine. that is a sad fact. this has now led to the present regulation, because we must respond to it if we really want to reduce the number of accidents. the ambitions of parliament and the commission were, however, very, very quickly put on hold in the council. what remains is an improvement in the exchange of data on serious infringements, no more and no less. the commission has already made this very discreetly and very graciously. i want to be relatively specific. the brakes are on! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i congratulate the new chairman of the board on her ambition. i hope they can hold out. however, it has been extremely difficult to maintain data protection, because member states want the data but not to provide genuine assistance when it comes to law enforcement. unfortunately, we have very little regulation here, it is a first step, that is all. i would like to conclude by mentioning the drama surrounding the correlation tables. i insist that we have it, because i am also rapporteur for the report on the implementation of community law, and the commission needs this money very badly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. for example, drunk driving or driving under the influence of drugs could not be punished and prosecuted in the same way for all road users in a member state. this directive is intended to change that. the possibility of exercising the opt-out under the amended legal basis is undoubtedly a watershed moment and i hope that no member state will actually exercise this opt-out in the long term. i also hope that there will be a large majority in the vote tomorrow, and that road safety and justice will win out, and that the council, under the new presidency, will finally be able to push through and get the correlation tables in place, so that it can actually be checked whether what has been decided in the european parliament together with the council is being implemented.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully share the view of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that going through these scanners should not be compulsory if someone does not want to do so. but it's also very important that refusing to go through the scanner does not entail degrading treatment, so that you are not fully screened and are treated much more degradingly than if you went through the scanner. i wanted to ask the honourable member if she meant that and, as spokeswoman for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, if she is also taking care that such things cannot happen in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not one thing to be clear about this report is what it is about. it is not as if the european union were to suddenly introduce security scanners. it is not that the european union suddenly no longer wants to protect the privacy of europeans. it is not that the european union has suddenly discovered its love for the manufacture of such devices. it was the case that individual member states had begun to introduce security scanners at european airports. it was the european union, our rapporteur, the european parliament, who said: if this is to happen, then there must be uniform rules for this throughout europe, throughout the european union. we have taken care of this together with the commission. there will be no health threat in all of europe. there will be no x-ray machines. we are in favour of absolute protection of privacy, of personal data. there will be no link between images and data. the images will be deleted immediately. no stranger will be able to see these pictures. and it will also - and this has already been mentioned - be possible to refuse checks with these devices without negative consequences. we're on the right track. body scanners are not the ultimate solution to terrorism, but they may help to contain it somewhat, if you use them and if you use them under reasonable conditions. i would like to say one more thing, commissioner. it is said that the commission considers that these schematic images may not be sufficient and that real images should be available. i 'm gonna make this very clear . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we fought well and got a good result. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate on body scanners - and i still call them that, to distinguish them from those that scan luggage - has been so intense only because it has caught the public eye and some member states have been pressed into introducing devices that many people have simply felt were an invasion of their privacy. the european parliament has responded well here, and i thank the rapporteur for his open spirit of cooperation. we have done a very good job together and have created a european regulation which also gives european countries the possibility of opting out of body scanners. we have managed to exclude particularly hazardous devices: no x-ray scanners for all passengers. we currently have a version that ensures that there are no nude photos that could then be shown in public or passed around amongst staff. we have no obligation to introduce it, we have the possibility to delete the data as soon as possible. and i think a lot of well-trained staff at airports, which is why i am amending this. i think that's the best security measure there is. the question of costs remains open. we are still waiting for the commission to come up with a sensible solution. of course, i have to talk about the liquids. and this is where we need to be smart about cost, because the devices don't detect what they're supposed to detect anyway, but they cost a lot of money. the scanner system for cargo has now finally been improved and incorporated, and this is a matter of fairness and balance in the treatment of the various sectors in air transport.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if we look at the statistics and analyze the trends, we can see one thing: passenger traffic worldwide will increase sharply. i recently met with the european airport operators and they estimate that passenger traffic will increase by about 50% worldwide over the next ten years. what are the consequences? there will undoubtedly be more and longer queues at airport checkpoints. if you want to avoid that, you need more personnel. this causes more costs and higher ticket prices. or we're thinking about how we can use new technologies to handle this increased passenger flow, to provide more comfort and also to ensure safety with increased passenger flow. if we can develop and implement security scanners that do not use ionizing radiation, that do not show real body images, that do not require data storage, and if we can give passengers the freedom to choose for or against the scanner during security checks, then this would be a tool that actually helps to maintain security but also increases the comfort of passengers during the checks. but i think that a discussion of security scanners alone is not enough. we must also discuss how we can control air freight better in the future than we do now. the commissioner, when you are conducting the next negotiations with the council, you know that you will have the support of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all have a stake in aviation safety. i don't think we need to discuss that. the naked scanners are the so-called stumbling block. i understand our citizens if they feel that their fundamental rights are being restricted by the introduction of naked scanners, and i also put aside the health aspect of ionising radiation and the associated exposure limits. i would like to mention that it was parliament that looked after our citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, the programme of your presidency of the council, the first of the trio, can certainly be described as very committed. one of the items on your agenda is a secure europe. i believe that this means strengthening the external borders on the one hand, but also ensuring food and energy security on the other. the latter means independence, but we should also seize the opportunity to invest in renewable energy, thereby reducing unemployment and increasing the training of young people. we can thus find a way out of the crisis and contribute in the long term to a europe that is secure in many ways.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the report will be discussed and adopted, the sovereign debt crisis will occupy us for years to come and so will the study of the causes of the crisis. we have fulfilled our task in this report of looking beyond the horizon, of developing long-term perspectives, of overcoming the boundaries of party politics, of day-to-day politics, of populist politics, but also of day-to-day politics. we have met that mandate, we have fulfilled that mandate. if you both - the council and the commission - now say what you are all for, then i can only say that parliament will adopt this report. we can start working on the implementation tomorrow. the sooner we make these goals a reality, the sooner we can draw the lessons of the crisis. i am also glad that this report will be discussed after the presentation by prime minister tusk. the report is the implementation of his call for more europe. yes, we need more europe because we have too little europe in economic, fiscal, budgetary, social, educational, research, foreign, energy and defence policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that we have stood on one leg on many issues concerning the internal market, europe's role in the world and the euro area, and have forgotten to put the other leg on, is one of the causes of the crises and the biggest problem for crisis management. yes, we need more eu and more europe and more europe in the world. we are saying it clearly: we need the next step of integration. we need an economic and social convention. we need economic and social union as an intermediate step to the defence and foreign policy union and as an intermediate step to political union. yes, we need a voice for europe in the world. we are at a crossroads because it is a question of what role we want to play in the future. do we want to become a key player in globalisation and raise our voice, or do we want to become a supplier to the dynamic continents outside europe? do we want to be crisis managers or do we want to become museums? it's about this crossroads. this report is a guide, it is a guide to action, and we should start implementing it quickly and draw the lessons from the crisis. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i should like to thank the chairman of the committee, who has carried out the work with great dedication. it is a pity that this committee has not received more public attention. in many respects, we agree with othmar karas and olle schmidt: yes, we need more europe in very central areas. it is extremely unfortunate, however, that in the search for something special we should say that we need a 5% increase in the budget first. that cannot and will not be understood, because that is the way to bridle the horse by the tail. first of all, we need these reforms, which should have been introduced in maastricht and then in nice at the latest, but which have not yet been introduced. it is only then that we can speak of other forms of income and, above all, of increased income. i think the real courage would have been to say, "let's smash the big banks". let us start with the real causes of the crisis and not just look for funds for the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. prime minister tusk said today that we need more europe. but how and where? the report by mrs berès gives an answer to that. i would like to thank you and mr klinz and all the staff for this. yes, the targets are visionary. they cannot all be implemented, but we must know the direction in which we want to go. i am sorry, mr minister and commissioner, that your answers were a little out of place, because you point to an economic governance package which certainly contains many correct and important things, but which the report says is not being done enough. we have to go beyond that. and you say: decide on the economic governance package! there has been a misunderstanding of what is said in this report. and not just in this report. you can read articles from helmut schmidt to nobel prize winner amartya sen and many others who tell you today, clearly: it's not enough! we cannot get out of this crisis with what you are doing and what we are proposing. it doesn't say anything about growth. the idea that growth is automatic has been shown to be wrong in recent years. the report does not really say anything about that. the polish presidency has promised to speak about employment and to present a concept for it. we haven't heard anything about it today. we wait. i hope something comes. on the inequitable distribution of income: it has been shown that the inequitable distribution of income has also led many people to borrow, to go into debt, and thus to contribute to this bubble that then led to the crisis. i don't want to accuse you of not having read the report. i would ask you to read the report. take an honest stand on this. it's got a lot of good things in it. we need more growth and employment and a fairer distribution of income, or we will not get out of the crisis. (applause from the centre)
in writing. many citizens are disappointed and disgusted by eu policies. they are right to feel that they are the only ones who are suffering from the consequences of the crisis. the high finance sector, which was saved by taxpayers' money, is once again posting huge profits. although it has been a major cause of the crisis, it is not bearing the costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the eu should take the lead in introducing a financial transaction tax, even if no agreement was reached at the last g20 summit in toronto. however, the member states must retain the right to tax. brussels must not use this situation to usurp tax powers and pave the way for a centralised federal state. what we need is a coordinated approach by the member states to a financial transaction tax!
i have to say, madam president, this oral amendment is not a landmark amendment to the whole report, but it is nonetheless important that paragraph 4 should be preceded by the word 'effectiveness': and in full compliance with article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights on non-discrimination and in line with eu legislation on data protection. i would ask you to support this amendment.
i have to say, madam president, i must now speak, since unfortunately i have not had the opportunity to speak - as i did with a predecessor whom i greatly appreciate. obviously, there are peers in this house. i understand that the commissioner was in a hurry and that i could not be called to put my point of order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i regret to say that the president was a little too benign in his use of the time. it's not obvious that a lot of people are waiting for the opportunity to catch the eye throughout the trial. but madam president, you're not listening to me either, there seems to be a system in this house that it's obviously not customary to be very careful about time. if colleagues, especially those who talk a lot about solidarity and are happy to add it every second sentence, then themselves overspend at least half a minute or twenty seconds, that is not necessarily an expression of solidarity either. i would ask you to take my request to the conference of presidents and to the other honourable member who has preceded me to ensure that speaking time is actually respected in future. we won't lose so many minutes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission
in writing. - in 1985, the schengen convention created a list of travel documents which can be seen and which give the right to cross external borders. the list is now to be brought into line with the changed institutional and legal framework of the european union. the member states should be required to state their position on the recognition or non-recognition of the documents concerned. the list of travel documents in this report is intended to be legally binding. i abstained because i am not entirely convinced of the proposals in the report.
in writing. - in 1985, the schengen agreement created a manual of travel documents which can be viewed and which entitle the holder to cross external borders. since the eu's framework conditions have changed massively, an adaptation seems to make sense. but since i doubt whether the means mentioned in the report are the ideal solution, i have abstained!
in writing. − the background to this report is the need to bring decisions under the convention implementing the schengen convention into line with the eu's existing legal framework. as the rapporteur rightly points out, the legislation would only create added value if it contributed substantially to legal certainty for the work of border guards. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − in times of high mobility and free movement of people, it is essential to give people unrestricted access to the 'new' means of communication such as e-mail. fast internet connections are essential, even for companies of all kinds, which communicate exclusively via the web and consequently also network thereby. but it is not just a large market for users, investors and companies are also interested in expanding broadband access, as this creates a broad, commercially viable field and the european union is pursuing the ambitious goal of becoming a world market leader. i have abstained because the question of the financiability of the measures is not being discussed enough.
in writing. − it is 2011, people are becoming more mobile - not least because of the free movement of people. in a highly developed information society, it is necessary to put infrastructure, especially information technology, in the face of such developments. the european union has set itself the ambitious goal of becoming the world leader in broadband availability. i have abstained because the question of the financiability of the measures is not being discussed enough.
in writing. − the digital agenda of the european union has set itself very ambitious targets. i see the added value of implementing these objectives - in addition to territorial cohesion - above all in terms of future job opportunities and new forms of work.
in writing. − the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular privacy, when processing personal data of individuals inside and outside the eu must be effectively protected in all circumstances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the eu is talking about increasing legal certainty and reducing administrative burdens, etc. the concerns raised by the passenger data agreement with the usa and the plans for future data collection on intra-european flights were not taken into account at all. the commission has not yet decided on the matter. i therefore abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. the fundamental freedoms of the individual are without doubt one of the most valuable assets of a developed society. the trends of globalisation, technological developments, increased online activity and the curtailment of fundamental rights in the name of combating terrorism are particularly worrying. it is therefore right to examine in this area whether the legal provisions for the protection of the rights of freedom are sufficient. the report does not condemn the plans for future data collection on intra-european flights. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − i have agreed to the report on a comprehensive approach to data protection in the eu. while the general trend over the past decade has been to turn security concepts into umbrella terms, the european union has moved in the opposite direction, by making the charter of fundamental rights binding at eu level in the lisbon treaty. we should definitely continue along this path.
in writing. - awareness of food and especially its ingredients has changed considerably over the years. people are becoming more careful about what they eat, but the trend in the food sector is also clearly towards consuming products made at home. seasonal food is booming. it is precisely when diseases or pathogens reappear in the food sector, as recently in the case of ehec, that the population increasingly relies on local and familiar products. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the labelling of foodstuffs. ingredients should not be able to hide behind obscure abbreviations that either confuse or reassure the consumer. the same applies to the indication of the country of origin. for these reasons, the eu now wants to introduce a uniform eu-wide labelling requirement on food packaging. the information must be uniform throughout and be appropriate, formulated and legible in such a way as to ensure full transparency for the consumer. i believe that this is an important step towards ensuring that the population has a good diet and thus also towards a lasting improvement in public health. however, since the food industry is to bear the costs of the new labelling procedure, a price increase in the food sector is not excluded. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − increased mobility within the eu will inevitably lead to higher traffic on our roads. the failure to comply with numerous road traffic regulations, such as speeding, not wearing a seatbelt, or driving while intoxicated, is a constant cause of serious accidents. in 2001, the ambitious target of halving the number of road deaths within the union was set, but this was not achieved. the eu subsequently called for the introduction of transnational prosecution of traffic offences. however, the individual member states are not obliged to forward the information, and the united kingdom, ireland and denmark have even rejected the directive. consequently, the council has softened its position. i voted in favour of the report because i think it is sensible to take the rapporteur's approach of re-introducing certain elements such as the original legal basis in the transport sector.
in writing. - violations of many of the rules of the road, such as speeding, not wearing a seatbelt or driving drunk, are often a major danger on the road. this is particularly true of the increased volume of traffic due to the free movement of persons, which is a constant cause of serious accidents. in 2001, the ambitious target of halving the number of road deaths within the union was set, but this was not achieved. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the transnational prosecution of crimes. i have voted in favour of the report because i support its aims.
in writing. - since the euro rescue package fiasco, net contributors have been asked to pay twice and thrice. in the next few years, instead of guarantees, real cash will flow into these rescue mechanisms. and the net contributors, the industrious citizens of germany, france, italy, the netherlands and austria, have to finance them from their national budgets, where already today severe cuts are painfully felt. in this tense situation, it is a shameless attempt to demand budget increases. we do not need an inflated eu budget, perhaps ten times as high, and certainly not one financed by eu taxes, which completely eliminates any desire to save, which inflates the brussels bureaucracy even more and dresses net payers up to their undershirts. instead, savings potentials should be used consistently. the agricultural subsidies, the largest and most controversial budget item, must be renationalized. this will reduce the burden on the eu budget and enable member states to better respond to the specificities of their agriculture. i therefore rejected the böge report in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. − the euro rescue umbrella is changing the eu's rescue mechanisms: instead of guarantees, real payments will flow. the citizens of the most efficient countries are thus asked to pay for the mistakes of others, again and again. in addition, europe is still in the grip of a veritable financial crisis. in this tense situation, demanding an increase in the eu budget is proof of how far the eurocratic delusions have already drifted from the citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme, as i believe that the european parliament clearly sets out its demands. i am particularly interested in the passage on free trade agreements, which gives the european parliament new powers of co-determination since the treaty of lisbon. the eu parliament is clearly in favour of the mandatory consideration of human rights and minimum social standards in the conclusion of future free trade agreements. this is particularly important in the context of the forthcoming and all future free trade agreements. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action.
in writing. − the joint motion for a resolution on the commission's 2012 work programme is a step in the right direction. the future work programme should in any case be used to promote and achieve the objectives and values of the european union. the urgent need is to implement the eu 2020 agenda. this requires a detailed and substantive discussion of the multiannual financial framework and subsequent agreement on it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. sustainable growth is particularly important in the area of climate strategy, which is about combating climate change: investments in renewable energy are essential if we are to tackle unemployment, especially among young people. on the other hand, there is the aspect of energy security: security not only in drawing lessons from fukushima but also in being independent. finally, initiatives to reconcile 'work and family life' are welcome - the continuing wage gap between men and women - in the same work - must finally be a thing of the past.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 999/2001 responded to the bse epidemic by providing rules for prevention and control. the tse regulation has been amended and extended several times, with regulation (ec) no 882/2004 on food and feed proving to be an important instrument. the present proposal for a further amendment to the regulation is accompanied by a considerable relaxation of the legislation, which i could not support because of the lack of regular and strict controls.
in writing. - terrorism is now a real threat to the countries of the european union, which must be sufficiently prevented for the security of all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of air transport, including the introduction of a new safety standard for the use of the aircraft. as the report also states, the society to be protected demands the safety of its people, but this must not in any case mean a restriction of fundamental rights. this is a narrow margin, particularly in the use of security scanners. the eu has also taken steps to ensure that the eu is not left behind by terrorists. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the rapporteur concludes that the union should agree to an eu-wide operation. i did not vote for the report because, particularly in the area of respect for fundamental rights, the rapporteur does not give enough attention to the measures taken or to be taken and because it is the responsibility of each member state to decide whether or not to use scanners.
in writing. the rapporteur considers that the commission's communication has removed his doubts. i do not yet see the evidence requested by the ep in 2008 that whole body scanners increase the safety of eu air traffic to an extent that the interference is proportionate to the fundamental rights of human dignity and privacy. like the amendments tabled, i too call for further impact assessments of the so-called body scanners to be carried out by experts 'without the involvement of industry, member state governments and third countries'.
in writing. - europe is currently experiencing a demographic catastrophe and it is clear that the political establishment in europe is suffering from 'demographic blindness'. the measures called for in the report are, in my view, ideologically motivated attempts to force women into the labour market, with the consequent reduction of wages. women's quotas produce "quota women" and are harmful to the economy. a well-qualified and capable woman will find her way into a leadership position. it does not need the measures mentioned. no man is expected to do what women are expected to do, namely, to balance the care of their children and their work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. − i support the report on 'women and business management' because i have been campaigning for more women in management positions since before i was an mep. as a shadow rapporteur in the legal affairs committee, i was already able to ensure that a corresponding passage was included in the report on 'corporate governance in financial institutions' in which the commission was invited to present a corresponding staged plan. in particular, i support the paragraph in the report now before the vote calling on companies to achieve a 30% female share by 2015 and a 40% by 2020. of course, there is more to it than a call for voluntary action, and binding legislative action is needed to enforce the 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020 quotas and thus increase the representation of women on management boards. the commission is now invited to prepare and present legislative proposals to this end.
in writing. − although the number of women graduates is now continuously exceeding the number of men, women in europe are underrepresented in management positions. it is therefore welcome that the commission has recently launched several initiatives to recognise and exploit the potential of women, their energies and skills. this will also benefit the european economy, as studies show that the integration of women both in and at the top of companies promotes performance, efficiency and better economic outcomes. the aim is to promote women to positions for which they would be qualified but which are denied access by various types of barriers.
in writing. - 'more europe' is seen by some political forces as the solution to europe's financial, economic and social problems. the eu could well take action against global financial speculators and protect the european economy in areas where it makes sense. i do not think that a european system of governance, i.e. economic governance, is the way to go. the eu must first of all abide by its own treaties in the spirit of the rule of law, which is not the case with the aid measures for greece. alternatives to the present difficulties are not even considered. this report will completely abolish the national sovereignty of the member states and completely disregard the principle of subsidiarity once held by the eu. this is the death knell of democracy in europe.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the management of the financial, economic and social crisis because the european parliament has made really good recommendations on how to deal with the crisis in the last two years of the report being drawn up in the special committee on crisis management. the report's keynote is 'more europe, not less europe' - this is the only long-term answer to the crisis. i would also like to stress the call for the introduction of a system of eurobonds which my group has included in the report. i now look to the commission to take up parliament's proposals and implement them as quickly as possible so that we can give life to the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for many arab countries, there may be no going back to the old ways. but where the journey is going is certainly uncertain most of the time. but there is hope for the people of yemen, when groups that have never spoken to each other before endure side by side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that a coup is far from a guarantee of democratic conditions or religious freedom for minorities is shown by egypt's increased attacks on christians. in general, the euphoria of the arab spring in egypt and tunisia has been followed by a general disillusionment, given the continuing security problems, economic difficulties and the old regime's tough retreat. with the exception of morocco, whose king is well known to be popular, the arab protests in the other countries have mainly been empty promises and violence. the strategic importance of syria, in my view, should not be underestimated. if the arab spring were to be stopped by the iranian bloc, that would be a devastating signal. so maybe it's time for the west to finally demand assad's departure and pull out diplomats. the eu must not overlook the danger of new refugee flows, even in the event of democratic changes in the arab world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs ashton and mr stefan füle very warmly for their truly great commitment to our neighbourhood. of course, some questions remain. as regards libya, i wonder when we will find a solution. it's not gonna work on a military basis. we must therefore try to find a political solution in parallel - not a military one, but one that is parallel to a military one. as far as syria is concerned, i naturally share the anger and the annoyance about the situation, and i am also very much in favour of extending these actions, as mr verhofstadt has said and as the resolution also states. the question is: is there still a chance for a security council resolution or not? or what are the conditions for reaching a consensus with russia on this issue? the other points only show the importance of good relations between the european union and turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. thirdly, mrs ashton, can we deal with things in this region in the longer term without having a special representative at ministerial level? you've appointed commissioners, that's absolutely right. but there are people, whether i'm mentioning a moratinus or others, who would be available to support you. because you two are doing an incredible job. but it's not the only region you're dealing with. mr füle is also dealing with an eastern region in particular. i wonder whether we need a stronger political presence in this region, and i stress this, a political presence in this region, to make it clear to the people there that we, as the european union, want to help. i'm really asking you to consider it. the last point i want to mention is that we give different signals. hopefully mostly good signals. you are in the region, you are present, and this european parliament is always committed to solidarity. but in this situation, a major member country of the european union is considering supplying tanks, if only to saudi arabia. saudi arabia is a sinister regime. saudi arabia has occupied a neighbor. saudi arabia is not a representative of the idea of progress in this region. (applause from the centre) i find it scandalous that germany is willing to supply tanks. i think we must be very clear about our opposition to arms being sent to this region at this time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to address those german colleagues in the house who do not seem to be able to bear the criticism of some other colleagues of the german government's plans to send tanks to saudi arabia. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union's arms export code is respected. having said that, foreign minister ashton and commissioner füle, i would like to thank you for your commitment and the support that you, with the external action service and the commission, are giving to the transformation processes in north africa and the middle east. i would like to refer in particular to the money that the european union is giving to this area and especially with regard to the poverty situation, not just of refugees but of people who are still suffering from poverty in the region. we have to do something for them. as for the additional eur 1.2 billion that was promised in enp (european neighbourhood policy) funds, we found out that only eur 238 million is actually additional funds to be shared between the southern mediterranean and eastern europe. is that really enough for europe to make a difference? if it is not, then please correct me and put the numbers right. the other thing is that you support programmes for the region, known as 'national indicative programmes'. it is our understanding half a year after the arab spring that they are still the old ones, the pre-revolution ones. they have not been updated. as far as i know that is due to the member states not going ahead. what are you doing in order to make it clear that we do not just have an enp review paper, but also actual policy guidelines that reflect the modern situation?
madam president, this is lady ashton. we know that we europeans must of course have a vital interest in the gradual democratization of eastern europe, asia and the middle east as well. the european union's influence is also a factor in these democratization processes, as we see in the balkans, for example. the situation is quite different with regard to turkey, with whom we are negotiating accession. the turkish elections have once again shown that the eu's overly halfhearted attitude, according to which problems will be solved by the prospect of eu membership alone, is a dangerous fallacy. the withdrawal of the mandate of elected turkish parliamentarians is simply not compatible with the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the fact that turkey's democratization process is at a crossroads is also evident from the fact that international election observers in the kurdish areas have revealed massive state interference in the 12 june elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think frozen conflicts are a stumbling block which are preventing the eastern partnership from succeeding, especially the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan, which is a special case. both are members of the eastern partnership, so i would call on armenia to immediately start to withdraw from the occupied territories. but at the same time, i would demand that azerbaijan limits its defence budget. the azeri military budget is higher than the total state budget of armenia, and others have already said that there is again a danger of violent conflict there. nevertheless, i also think that the european union should play a more active role. what do you think, lady ashton? i think it would be great if the european union replaced france in the presidency of the minsk group. it should be the european union as a whole which is represented there, leading these efforts, and not one of the member states. i also think that the credibility and coherence of the european union is at stake. if we look at the conflicts involving transnistria, south ossetia and abkhazia, we speak about territorial integrity, whereas with nagorno-karabakh we speak about territorial integrity and self-determination. why this different approach?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i, too, would like to extend a warm welcome to your new position. schengen is, in my view, one of the achievements which our citizens really appreciate. it is important to protect our external borders and if we do find any shortcomings in this agreement, we must correct them. but for me that also means agreeing changes together in consultation with all the parties involved. everything else, in my view, is a step in the opposite direction. i think europe should be heading towards a good future.
i have to say, madam president, i am very glad that this proposal from mr duff is finally here, because it is indeed a step towards a common european policy. we're all elected at the national level. that means that we are asked at home first and foremost what is important nationally, and not what is important for europe. the fact that we have 25 meps here, elected by the european parliament, in addition to the others, makes sense! i am in favour of the idea that we should do this within the framework of the 751 members of parliament and also - this is a proposal that my colleague mr häfner has already made - not at the expense of the little ones. i am from a small member state myself, and i am not afraid of losing something here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and, mrs tiçau, there are national and regional constituencies in the home country too. why not europe? and to mr wieland, you mentioned a very difficult formula. it's not even in the report anymore. i hope that we are taking a step towards more europe here also in elections!
madam president, as one of the shadow rapporteurs, i would also like to thank mr van orden for this very good cooperation and the very good report that has come out. you have included and tried to include most of our amendments, so i think we have a very good report here. i am also very sorry we do not have a wider debate on it. i would like to draw attention to one issue that came up after we had the debate in the committee on foreign affairs, which is why the topic is not included here. in may, a coalition of several ngos, including ikv pax christi, published a report, which i would like to show you, on worldwide investments in cluster munitions; that is a shared responsibility. it talks about the companies – be it banks, insurance companies or others – who continue to finance the production of land mines and cluster mines; that is an encouragement. this is something that we criticise in our report and which has to be stopped. i would like to call on the member states, the commission and council and national parliaments to support these ngos’ initiative and ensure that there will be no more financial investment in the production of these cruel arms.
i have to say, madam president, 100 million anti-personnel mines are hidden in the ground worldwide, and the classic victims are unfortunately 70 per cent civilians. the ottawa convention was therefore a step in the right direction. in the eu we should also look at our member states. for example, 66 years after the end of world war ii, in my hometown of linz, there are some 700 unexploded aerial bombs underground. the search and recovery costs are estimated at around eur 200 000 for the landowners. my question to the commission on this subject of 13 january 2011 was treated more than circumventingly, referring to the framework directives on the prevention of occupational hazards and safety at work and the disposal of shipwrecks and bridge debris. in school, i'd say, "clearly missed the point". the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
mr president, in coordination with other groups, i would like to table an oral amendment concerning the draft bill in the duma to ignore certain rulings of the european court of human rights. we would like to make the following addition to the paragraph as it stands: ‘welcomes the recent decision of the russian duma not to consider the draft law for the time being and hopes it will finally renounce that initiative’.
in writing. − declaring 2012 the 'european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations' is a very good idea in view of the current debates on future demographic developments, as the rapporteur himself writes, to reflect and inform on these developments and the challenges they pose, and above all to expose any negative age stereotypes and to identify and combat age discrimination.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report on the eu's external action to promote democratisation. the rapporteur stresses the importance of democracy as an international guarantor of peace, but also recognises that there is no monopoly on the definition of democracy and that it is not necessarily appropriate to impose one's own model of democracy on a country. the rapporteur has presented a very detailed and comprehensive report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the joint inter-parliamentary motion for a resolution on future amendments to the schengen code. the reintroduction of border controls is not directly related to the effectiveness of the fight against crime. the schengen code in its current version contains sufficient provisions on the temporary exceptions. temporary political calculations must not be allowed to impede progress.
in writing. − one of the most significant innovations of the lisbon treaty in terms of accountability is the full integration of the common foreign and security policy/common security and defence policy in the european union. since the creation of these common policies as an independent pillar under the umbrella of the european community, parliament has had no control over their conduct. the european parliament and the national parliaments, acting jointly in the form of a conference of european committees, should no longer neglect this task. but this requires an agreement on future cooperation. such an agreement must be pursued with consistency.
in writing. − 80 million people in the eu live below the poverty line, 13 million people are supported by food aid programmes. these numbers are a wake-up call. it is important that these assistance programmes continue to be provided and that all available programmes are fully exploited. the debate on the source of funds must not be to the detriment of those who need it. the programmes in the agricultural sector are efficient and have proven themselves. one of the greatest challenges of the future will be that with the world's growing population, more food will be needed for more people. we need to find answers to these urgently, we need a global master plan to feed the world's poorest people.
in writing. - landmines are one of the most cruel forms of warfare. the civilian population is the main affected population, and it is they who bear the health and human consequences. in addition, lands are being devastated and rendered unusable for years. the report calls on the commission to provide more funds for victims and for progress in mine detection and surveillance technology. these are demands in the interest of humanity. that is why i have agreed to this report.
i have to say, madam president, crimes against humanity have a 150-year tradition in the congo. rubber, ivory, and copper were the main exports of the belgian colony, and the population was forced to work on the plantations and in the mines. the exploiters' methods were horrible. quotas were set for each village, and residents were punished for failure to meet them: flogging, rape, dismemberment, and mass executions were common. i think europe, especially colonial europe, has a lot to make up for on the ground. such violence creates a vicious cycle across generations and generates new violence. rape is used in warfare to demonstrate unlimited power over the victim, to humiliate, humiliate, injure, and destroy the souls of the women directly affected, as well as entire families. and to add to the physical and psychological effects, rape is considered a shame, especially if it results in pregnancy, and then women are ultimately rejected by their families as well. in addition, the drc has failed to bring members of its armed forces to justice for crimes under international law. in the rare cases where a woman does take action against her tormentor, she is de facto denied legal protection. such crimes against humanity cannot be tolerated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not possible for europe to be very keen on the congolese riches but to turn a blind eye to war crimes!
i have to say, madam president, i was speaking with a blue card when you spoke of the danger of a 'chat room' in the wto. then you also started to implement what needed to be changed at the wto. we've known that for ten years. but my question to you now is: where do you start with your hope that the wto can actually be reformed, and what specific role should the european union play in this?
i have to say, madam president, 'fair trade, not double-barreled free trade' has been a core principle of many thoughtful europeans from a wide range of political backgrounds. i am also one of the people who was involved in the doha process ten years ago, in the committee on industry. it is very bitter where we are today, because it has become clear that without clear european sustainability standards - we now talk more about resilience, even about going backwards - without taking into account human rights and openness in terms of action, we cannot achieve any results. many points have been raised. the cap it is hypocritical of the european union to enter into negotiations. it's a pity that nothing happens. when mr caspary says 'we need a strong wto', the question is not always what a strong wto is and what it looks like. i think we need to look much more closely at the chinese position and put the question of power very clearly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the negotiations on the reform of the world trade organisation can be described as truly tiring. the negotiations are not likely to be concluded any time soon. the european parliament will be voting in favour of a multilateral trading system in a resolution on wednesday, and will therefore be opposing the extension of bilateral agreements. the european union made concessions in many areas during the doha negotiations, and thus made clear steps towards the negotiating partners. i really hope - and this is your responsibility, commissioner - that the european union will make a strong and active commitment to the world trade organisation. we must provide vital support, especially to the least developed countries, through a global trading system with clear rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sceptical about this development, particularly in the context of european agriculture. it should not be forgotten that many european countries are characterized by a small structure in agriculture. market support measures have been and are an important element in maintaining regionality and rural life. food safety is a key issue, especially in europe. the importance of the sps standards and the trips agreement for the european economy is also undeniable. the same applies to price fluctuations in the commodity and food sectors. these problems cannot be solved regionally or bilaterally, but must be solved globally. we need a sound, sustainable and balanced trading system and not a patchwork of trade agreements. i hope that the next round of negotiations will be successful and that you will continue to press for a settlement. good luck with that.
in writing. for nine years, industrialized, emerging and developing countries have been bargaining in the doha round for further liberalization of world trade. the eu is the most willing to compromise in the current negotiations: 64% of the concessions in the agricultural sector came from brussels! the eu, on the other hand, can expect only 8% of the profits! the united states will contribute only 6%, but can expect to gain around 13%. the big winner is brazil 0 concessions - but the emerging country benefits all the more from the opening up of the market by the other wto members. there is a clear imbalance here! the eu must not forget its own farmers in its generous concessions. the support and protection of european farmers is vital for their survival. it would be better to rely on regional self-sufficiency than to support large farms in brazil indirectly!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that, for example, in a mobile phone, there are familiar metals like copper and iron, but also less familiar metals, namely the rare earths that are so important and indispensable for the technology of the future. we know that these are not only scarce, but also a source of political conflict. in view of the announcement by china, which supplies 97% of the high-tech metals, to curb production, the union would be well advised to consider the use of raw material deposits in the context of the raw materials strategy. plans to support sustainable extraction of raw materials in the eu, however, require a mature strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these considerations must also take into account the fact that china has been securing resources in africa, mongolia or afghanistan for years. we know that recycling is becoming economically attractive, given the mountains of e-waste and the rising prices of raw materials. in this context, however, there must be no radical solution of a purely civilian nature, similar to the ban on light bulbs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the british-austrian philosopher karl popper once said: "we must plan for freedom and not for security, though perhaps for no other reason than that only freedom can ensure security". i believe that the european union and its member states are guided by a contrary understanding and are gradually transforming the liberal rule of law into a preventive state. for example, the seventh framework programme for research is spending a total of eur 1.4 billion on security. of the approximately 120 projects, only two deal with data protection or legal and social issues. it is for this very reason that it is important - and this is exactly what mrs in't veld has done - that fundamental rights are repeatedly and critically questioned and that data protection is also included in the report with regard to privacy. it's also important to evaluate the last ten years. i therefore naturally support the report and will be calling for further support in the next few hours.
in writing. the russians and americans planted the seeds of terrorists like bin laden during the cold war. bin laden may be history by now. but he has radicalised the fight against terrorism. first, the rule of law was sacrificed in the 'war on terror'. even in the eu, human rights violations have been committed and covered up in the name of 'counter-terrorism'. the united states was often more concerned with building its leadership than with eradicating terrorism. and these are national, ethnic and religious conflicts. even before people commit crimes, they are already targeted by investigators, such as unsuspecting passengers must disclose all data there is no evidence of any success in the investigation of the data striptease. and now, after the norway attack, they want to set up their own network for the early detection of potential violent offenders. this is ridiculous! will everyone who has "radical ideas", anyone who doesn't meet the criteria of political correctness, be monitored equally as a potential terrorist? such a development must be rejected in the strongest possible terms. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia. finally, the role of the eu states in cia operations is also to be fully elaborated.
the commission has already done so. a number of banks recorded on- and off-balance sheet losses between 2007 and 2009 but were nevertheless given a so-called clean bill of health by the auditors. the auditors are appointed and paid by the companies themselves, which naturally affects their independence. in addition, there are liability privileges, such as exist in many european countries. so , first of all: the commission has taken a very serious step in the direction of its green paper, which is absolutely necessary when we are talking not only about the rating agencies which are to be criticised, but also about the role of the auditors, the auditors who have not performed their duties properly. i would like to bring up one aspect which is particularly important to me, namely external rotation. it is becoming increasingly clear that it is important not to conduct any checks on the level of compliance. this also requires a regular external rotation.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mrs yannakoudakis very much for this important report. in the eu, more men than women are still entrepreneurs. a body such as the office of women's business ownership in the states would therefore be an absolute necessity for the eu to support women entrepreneurs across the eu. women are capable of multitasking and are more careful and circumspect. it is absolutely vital for the development of society today that more women enter the business world. support at local, regional and international level must be built up and so existing expanded!
the commission has already done so. we have seen in the past very terrible images of refugees who have died in the mediterranean in horrible ways: women, children, young men who tried to come to us to have a better life here, but above all to find protection from human rights violations in their homelands. what we have before us is a better mandate for frontex than the one we have had before. but unfortunately it is half-hearted, it is incomplete, it is not what we greens had envisioned, namely strong protection for refugees and human rights. there is, for example, the question of responsibility: who is ultimately responsible? is it the member state or is it frontex? that's not clear. we are afraid that in the future it will continue to be: it was not our fault, it was the others. i am afraid that this blame-setting will continue. what is the precise nature of cooperation with third countries? what does this mean, that we have been able to achieve that the legal situation in those countries must be in line with eu law? so no cooperation with dictatorships, but what that looks like in detail, that too is not clear yet. and finally, we would like to see much more democratic control. the european parliament in particular is still lacking in this area. but i hope that this mandate will still help to save some people from a cruel death in the mediterranean.
i have to say, madam president, the eu's external borders are the joint responsibility of the member states. at the same time, each member state is also responsible for fulfilling obligations under international agreements. the report points to the limited scope of action that the eu agency has had since its creation and proposes necessary changes to enable the agency to work effectively as a tool to effectively tackle crossborder crime. we are discussing today the revision of the basis for frontex. is this appropriate to address substantial shortcomings, such as the allegation of human rights violations? the rapporteur has already tabled amendments aimed at strengthening the provisions on human rights and the ep's democratic control rights. however, it is time to clarify in detail the agency's responsibility for content.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with this new frontex regulation and with the excellent report by mr busuttil, we are making it possible to monitor the external borders at hinkunft much better than before. this will ensure that freedom of movement within the european union is safeguarded and that international organised crime such as trafficking in human beings and drug crime can be tackled more effectively. three things are particularly important to me: firstly, we will have european border guard teams in hinkunft, with excellent experts, equipped with the latest technology, available immediately. secondly, we must finally make the member states also responsible for keeping their promises. this means that the personnel and equipment guaranteed must actually be provided. thirdly, the possibility of carrying out risk analyses and providing member states with the data needed for effective border surveillance. overall, a very, very positive instrument for greater security within the european union!
i have to say, madam president, the southern sea border is the eastern route across the balkans, where illegal immigration takes place. this year, in my home country of austria, more than 12 000 illegal immigrants have already been apprehended, 23% more than in the previous year. so you're coming across the classic balkan route, where there's obviously an open external border that's more like swiss cheese than a real border. the activities of frontex and europol are failing because of the weakness of the member states' will to coordinate, because of the lack of operational plans and technical means. the negative effects of this must be borne in particular by the central european countries of destination, including my home country, austria. what do the citizens expect? they expect europe to be effectively protected, to have effective protection of its external borders. it's called "speedy and targeted". i have some doubts, however, that this report is really moving things along efficiently.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i can only agree with mr busuttil. i hope those opposing postponement are not motivated by national election considerations. we support postponement as we want a unified and strong position of the parliament and not a divided position. that is our message.
in writing. − it is more than welcome that the european parliament has today decided by such a large majority to extradite the austrian eu envoy hans-peter martin for further prosecution. the various criminal proceedings against martin confirm the suspicion that has been on the table for a long time, but that seems to have been deliberately concealed. for years we have tried to clarify the suspicion of hans-peter martin's negligent handling of tax money by means of parliamentary questions. however, it took martin's "magic apprentice", his former assistant and now mep martin ehrenhauser, to come forward to betray his former boss and expose the scheme. to what extent he himself is involved in the whirlwind of all these enlightening events will also be to be ascertained. more than worrisome, however, is the fact that the austrian political and media landscape, by not addressing the questionable events for years, has apparently deliberately deceived 18 percent of austrian voters, with the sole intention of harming the fpö. the extradition of martin to the austrian judiciary will hopefully now shed light on the funding jungle surrounding the self-proclaimed cleaner martin, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - the frontex agency was established in 2004. the accession of several new countries to the eu has resulted in a corresponding change in the external borders. in order to ensure a high and secure level of freedom of movement for the half billion people within the eu and to provide those countries, especially those at the external borders, with adequate protection against cross-border crime and illegal immigration, the changes contained in the commission's proposal are intended to allow the agency to function effectively. to this end, member states should be obliged to provide the agency with appropriate resources and equipment. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. however, such a change in the legal basis for frontex requires a comprehensive debate on the agency's past work and future accountability.
in writing. − under the current system, there is no truly uniform system in the european union for controlling the export and transport of dual-use goods such as nuclear materials and chemical and conventional weapons. decisions on these issues are taken in the eu's common foreign and security council behind closed doors without open debate, uniform criteria or the participation of the european parliament as eu legislator. not even all eu member states are represented in the organisations that manage the export of such dangerous goods. the baltic states, as well as cyprus, malta, slovakia, slovenia and romania, for example, are not members of the missile technology control regime. as a result, trade decisions by one eu member state can threaten the security interests of another, as we have already seen. this report supports amendments to european union legislation to establish a single eu system for the collection, dispatch and storage of export licences for dual-use goods and to impose on the commission an obligation to inform the european parliament of licences issued. on such fundamental issues as foreign and security policy, there must be a clear solidarity between eu member states. the amendments proposed in the report will introduce an improved, uniform and transparent system for regulating the export of arms, nuclear materials, missiles and similar technologies.
in writing. - dual-use goods are goods which are intended for civilian use but which, because of their characteristics, can be used for military purposes. a list of such goods has been drawn up under international export control regimes (annex i) and has been made subject to a special authorization requirement. the background to this community regulation now being put forward is to improve transparency and to increase responsibility for these types of goods and technologies. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - as the rapporteur points out, a number of regulations in the field of the common agricultural policy, although obsolete, are still formally in force. a regulation is now to be adopted to repeal this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the community's farmers.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because this act aims to simplify the existing rules and thus create directly clearer conditions for european businesses, but also indirectly brings legal certainty for european citizens.
in writing. − i support the international tropical timber agreement, as i believe that promoting international trade in legally harvested tropical timber and the sustainable management of tropical forests should be a key eu concern. we must put an end to logging and illegal logging to preserve not only the extraordinary biodiversity but also the legal value chain. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am very clear in my support for sustainable trade relations and therefore support the international tropical timber agreement.
in writing. − the international tropical timber agreement (itta) aims to internationalise trade in legally harvested tropical timber, while promoting sustainable management. the 2006 convention has a ten-year duration and is reviewed every five years. the eu has introduced additional measures to combat illegal logging in a 2004 action plan. regulation (eu) no 995/2010 of october 2010 prohibits the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber on the internal market. this regulation also aims to provide for traceability and to provide for the duty of care of market participants. in negotiating the amendment of the 2006 international tropical timber convention, the eu commission should focus on the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of damaged areas information and education measures are particularly important.
in writing. - switzerland is an important trading partner of the european union. the main products concerned are agricultural products exported from the eu to switzerland and vice versa. it is understandable that trade partners have an interest in ensuring mutual protection of designations of origin and geographical indications in order to promote trade in agricultural products and at the same time to improve the quality of the products. the inclusion of liechtenstein in the eu-switzerland agreement also represents a significant improvement in trade relations for this country and is therefore absolutely desirable. i support this agreement because guaranteed designations of origin and guaranteed quality of food are of great importance to us all.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the mutual protection of designations of origin and geographical indications will improve the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products, in addition to providing important information for the final consumer.
in writing. - i have approved the report. norway benefits from the european single market as a member of the european economic area, but agricultural products and fisheries were excluded from the scope in 1992. article 19 now provides for the gradual liberalization of agricultural trade. this will have a positive impact on the eu's agricultural trade balance.
in writing. − this report (a7-0248/2011) extends the amendments and the existing provisions to the principality of liechtenstein. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − brazil is one of the eu's largest and most important trading partners. the eu and the latin american country have signed an agreement on civil aviation safety, but it has not yet entered into force. the council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. should the agreement eventually enter into force, it would bring significant benefits to all eu states, as it would introduce the mutual recognition of certificates in all areas of airworthiness. this would also lead to a significant simplification of trade in services and goods, as there would be virtually no double valuation, double checking or double control. in addition, the agreement would benefit european and brazilian companies in that it would eliminate costly product authorisation procedures. the report has my vote, because i agree with the rapporteur, who insists that the council should not delay the conclusion any longer.
in writing. - i agreed to the report because the proposed shortened authorisation procedure could reduce costs considerably and the mutual recognition of certification bodies introduced for all eu countries simplifies the procedure.
in writing. − the non-eu countries iceland and norway are linked to the eu through the schengen agreement literally without borders. this makes mutual legal assistance in criminal matters a necessity. the new convention aims to improve this procedure; the report was therefore approved. i also support the rapporteur's call for the european arrest warrant to be evaluated.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch) was established by a council regulation of 30 may 2008 pursuant to article 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) for the period until 31 december 2017 by the european community, represented by the european commission, and a non-profit association of european industry ('new energy world') involving european companies of all sizes in the field of fuel cell and hydrogen technology, with its seat in brussels. shortly afterwards, a grouping of research institutes (new european research grouping on fuel cells and hydrogen) joined as a member. the joint undertaking has a budget of eur 1 billion for the period 2008-2017, of which eur 470 million is from the seventh eu research framework programme, the remainder being paid as own contribution by private companies and research institutions. the objective of the joint technology initiative is to accelerate the development of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies in europe and pave the way for their market introduction in the period 2010-2020. i voted for the report because there are no disadvantages in amending the regulation.
in writing. - it is not uncommon for people just before retirement age to be discriminated against in enterprises on the grounds of their age. women, on the other hand, are disadvantaged not only because of their age but also because of their gender. women's employment is characterised from the outset by recurrent interruptions in work, lower earnings and gender pay gaps. discrimination against women in the world of work on grounds of sex and age must be stopped! in addition, there are few opportunities for continuing education and training for women, especially those of mature age, which makes it particularly difficult for the persons concerned to adapt to the latest technologies and to the requirements of the workplace. the eu must therefore find sustainable solutions to these problems.
in writing. − the gender roles still inherent in our society - men as breadwinners, women as (unpaid) houseworkers and family carers - have a corresponding effect on the social security entitlements of women of retirement age. for european women in retirement, this means increasing poverty, isolation and social exclusion.
in writing. − directive 2008/52/ec aims to promote amicable settlement of disputes through mediation and to strike a balance between mediation and judicial proceedings. the aim is to establish mediation as a cost-effective and fast alternative to court proceedings with the possibility of a win-win solution. many member states have gone beyond the minimum requirements of the directive in their implementation by providing financial incentives for participation in mediation and the mandatory use of mediation.
in writing. the lisbon treaty abolished the old system of working procedures (consultation, management, regulation) and placed the administrative process under closer control. the system has now been replaced by a two-pillar structure based on delegated and implementing action, including in the case of a veto for parliament. the european parliament is thus playing a subordinate role. in addition, the following measures confer on the commission the power to implement and enforce the common agricultural policy: article 290 tfeu allows the legislator to empower the commission to supplement customary requests by non-legislative acts or to reliably amend non-essential elements of a legislative act. i am opposed to the european commission pooling its powers, especially in such an important area as agriculture. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - as regards the amendment of regulation no 378/2007 for the application of the optional modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy, i voted in favour of the compromise proposal put forward jointly by the largest ep groups, as it contains a more detailed and detailed regulation of delegated acts, particularly as regards programming and financial management.
in writing. − publicly supported export credits are granted by national financing agencies, mainly to small and medium-sized enterprises, to finance foreign investment, exports or supplies. these loans are used to increase a country's exports. i supported the report which calls for simplification and efficiency in the lending process. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the annual activity report of each member state to parliament and the commission in particular provides for the creation of a level playing field for the european export industry.
in writing. - we voted on this report in the spring. however, it was referred back to committee. now, after further negotiations, satisfactory results have been achieved. public or publicly supported export credit agencies are important financiers of public financing of private sector projects, including in developing countries. they are still gaining in importance for european companies' investments in times of tight budgets, provided they do not have to refinance themselves with taxpayers' money. as the risk assessment of public export credit agencies is completely different from that of private bank lending, there can be distortions of competition in international trade, as the example of china illustrates. for this reason, there are a number of regulations, such as oecd and wto agreements, which fix repayment periods and a minimum premium rate. the evaluation, in order to exclude misuse and to prevent refinancing from taxpayers' money, requires standards for greater transparency through the eu-wide obligation to disclose annual balance sheet reports, etc. this has been taken into account sufficiently recently, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in view of the announcement by china, which supplies 97% of the high-tech metals, that it will cut back on production, the eu is well advised to consider resource storage as part of its strategy for raw materials. plans to support sustainable extraction of raw materials in the eu require a mature strategy. the long lead time of often five to ten years is the reason why we must now think carefully about the raw material needs we have to meet in the long term. these considerations must also take into account the fact that china has been securing resources in africa, mongolia or afghanistan for years. recycling is slowly becoming economically attractive in the face of the mountains of e-waste and rising commodity prices. in this context, however, there must be no radical solution of a purely civilian nature, similar to the ban on light bulbs. the proposed raw materials strategy does not seem to me to be well thought out, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − with the threat of raw material shortages, the fear of raw material supply bottlenecks and the prospect of future market dominance by the people's republic of china, the eu needs to find innovative ways of using raw materials to ensure the eu's security of supply and competitiveness while respecting the principle of sustainability. the proposed raw materials strategy takes a more differentiated approach and aims to adapt cooperation with eu third countries to the conditions in the partner countries in order to maximise effectiveness. the report was therefore approved.
in writing. − in the future, eu-owned oil and gas production will become increasingly important. already, 90% of oil and 60% of natural gas are extracted in so-called 'offshore' operations within the eu. the majority of projects are located in the north sea, with norway leading the way. after the last major oil spill off the coast of the united states, the call for higher safety standards was raised. however, the eu is already a long way ahead of the us in this respect. it would also be unwise to insist on static measures within the eu, as there are different technical and also landscape conditions to be taken into account. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the project staff should also be involved, since no one knows the local situation better and they have the most targeted know-how. i voted for the report because eu offshore projects are intended to provide the greatest possible security in the oil sector, in order to avoid disasters in advance.
in writing. − women are less likely to enjoy the benefits of running a business, and therefore less likely to take advantage of the opportunities they are entitled to, because of their often additional domestic responsibilities. women have nevertheless demonstrated their importance in the world of work on many occasions. there is also no doubt that a company can only benefit from different views at management level. a key point to improve is that women are accepted as leaders and with the same qualifications are not disadvantaged on the basis of their gender. the commission has therefore decided to set up a network of women's associations in the member states.
in writing. - business is still dominated by men; this picture persists in the eu, at least, in contrast to the us, which is much more advanced in its women's empowerment programmes. the positive qualities of women - their ability to multitask, their ability to exercise greater caution and prudence - have often been recognised by financial institutions as a bonus for investment. the eu commission has established networks of female entrepreneurship ambassadors in 17 member states and 5 non-eu countries to promote women in entrepreneurship in their respective countries. these women are volunteers and need a lot of support to find more echo. in order to find a strategic approach, it is now important to know who the women entrepreneurs are and in what areas they are active. this requires specific data collection and analysis for the whole eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking mr chatzimarkakis for his good work and for the good cooperation we have always had, which has led to a good result, of course in consultation with the council and the commissioner. it is a matter of consumer protection, as has already been said. is there any need to adopt such a regulation and protect consumers from market abuse and insider trading? i think it is. recent cases, especially in the us, have shown that market participants very often - and this is almost the nature of the matter - try to exploit their market power and engage in insider trading. so it is absolutely necessary to do something about it. as mr gyürk has already mentioned, we are now in the european community. the energy sector is thankfully no longer a purely national or regional matter but a european one, and that is why we need european regulation. this does not mean that national authorities, in particular national regulatory authorities, have no more work to do. the work will of course be primarily carried out by the national authorities, who will also have the appropriate overview of the markets and the market players, but in close cooperation with acer. it is very important that the european overview is preserved and that these cross-connections and network connections are considered accordingly. the register is also important. many of us wanted more than just a register of approval procedures and so on. maybe it would have been too much red tape. we'll see about that. we are now working with a register that has and receives the relevant information so that the regulatory authorities can also act accordingly. the penalties and sanctions have already been mentioned - in particular by mr gyürk. it is not worthwhile to deal with market forces and abuses if we do not have the possibility of imposing penalties at the same time. it would also make little sense if in some countries the penalties were high and in others low, so that the entrepreneurs would then go to countries which impose very low penalties. a certain degree of harmonisation should therefore be achieved over time. the last point concerns the delegated acts. the commissioner has made a statement on this. i wish you, commissioner, a good hand on the delegated acts and may i take this opportunity to say that we have missed a little bit of the good hand in your statements on flags and flags at half-mast. because when it comes to every country that does not do a certain task only putting the flags at half mast, we have to ask all countries to put the flags at half mast. so let us be a little more modest about this question. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ten years after the liberalisation of the energy market, we are now coming to realise that there are rules to be followed. the commission believes that liberalization should have led to price reductions, but the opposite has happened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by insider dealing, capacity retention and market dominance. the result is price fluctuations, and as always, the private households suffer the most. it is therefore appropriate for wholesalers to disclose information relevant to price formation. but the creation of a new agency and thus new costs and administrative burdens is more than questionable. the commission could also look into this itself in the directorate-general for competition. we also need a minimum of uniform sanctions, otherwise the companies will simply move their headquarters to the place where the sanctions are least severe. the consequences are therefore borne by consumers and the eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is more important than ever to ensure that energy markets are monitored more transparently and effectively, and that any attempts to manipulate or abuse the market are detected and punished. we need a single energy market and we need to overcome the existing frontiers. we can only overcome the existing barriers and prevent abuse by having clear rules on transparency and by having uniform sanctions throughout europe. we want to create an instrument to prevent market abuse in the energy sector. it proposes a common european approach to prohibiting insider dealing and market manipulation in wholesale energy markets for all electricity and natural gas products not covered by the market abuse directive. it is fortunate that we do not include in this report any cost for data collection, there is no transmission of the marginal costs, at the instigation of the european parliament a harmonisation of penalties between member states has been introduced to avoid forum shopping. as regards the scope of the regulation, it should be noted that wholesale energy markets should include not only organised exchanges but also unregulated markets, as their transactions may affect trading on energy exchanges. this is the way we are strengthening market integrity and consumer confidence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. the extent to which insider trading can be controlled, however, remains to be seen. the need for a separate agency to improve cooperation between the energy regulatory authorities of the member states is, however, questionable. in recent years, the eu has become a veritable jungle of agencies, which should not be expanded. in terms of transparency, a number of factors need to be taken into account: firstly, reductions in wholesale prices are often not or only very reluctantly passed on to consumers by electricity and gas suppliers. secondly, consumers cannot benefit from the benefits of energy liberalisation as long as it is difficult to switch suppliers because of incomprehensible electricity bills. however, comparability is not really assured if the comparison portals in principle only list providers who conclude a commission agreement. and then the internet switching can really ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the title is too broad, but it hides a subject of enormous importance both for the institutions of the union and for the citizens. the focus of my report is on how european law is implemented and applied in the member states - the european law that we are developing and adopting here in this house with an enormous investment of time, resources and also commitment. if this right is not taken seriously in the member states, then this work - as the saying goes - has been for nothing. a parliament which does not take itself seriously and does not see that the rules it has laid down are applied would be leading itself into the absurd. the treaties, on the other hand, provide for a probative remedy, namely the commission as guardian of the treaties, which should monitor the process of application and implementation, up to the initiation of infringement actions, if agreement cannot be reached with the member state. this is the case, for example, with questions such as the recognition of professional qualifications, which can be very important for an individual's destiny, or with certain environmental issues, land ownership issues, or anything else that directly affects citizens. in most cases, the commission acts on the basis of a complaint by a complainant. these complainants, these citizens, are ultimately - and this is particularly important to me - our early warning system, which is designed to alert us to malfunctions in member states when we apply it and enable us to correct them here too. the role of the complainant is therefore central to the whole process. the citizens must have the actual opportunity to complain and then also be given information on how that complaint is being dealt with and whether there are consequences and, if not, why not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is not harmful to the environment. my report also questions the practice in the so-called pilot project, where the commission, in the event of a citizen's complaint, unfortunately does not always fulfil its information obligations towards the complainant and prefers to negotiate with the member states behind the scenes. the citizen is then left in the rain as a complainant without information. this is not reasonable! that is why we have included a proposal in my report which proposes a at least partial codification of this process, with fixed deadlines and information obligations. this is clearly in line with the treaties and does not in any way restrict the commission, but helps it. in conclusion, in times of euroscepticism, it is more important than ever to respond to citizens' complaints and to ensure transparency in the handling of their complaints. i think we must all take this into account here.
mr president, mr commissioner, and mr president of the polish presidency! the creation of eu law is really anything but easy. on the contrary, it is extremely difficult for ordinary citizens to see through the intricate ways in which european law is being created, implemented and enforced. smart regulation, intelligent legislation, i see as a winning match between a good football team: the interaction between the institutions commission european parliament council must be harmonious, fast and orderly, that is to say, low-cost, but above all democratic. this means that the national parliaments, the eesc, the committee of the regions, civil society and - i stress this - the social partners must also be sufficiently involved. i would like to point out a shortcoming in the otherwise excellent karim report: i miss the mention of the social partners in this report. social dialogue is enshrined in eu primary law. the report merely states that all relevant stakeholders should be consulted. this does not take sufficient account of the specific nature of trade unions, but also of employers' representations. finally, the social partners themselves can be legislators at eu level, for example through social partners' agreements. the second point to be made is that smart regulation must not be used to water down the eu's minimum standards, particularly those on the protection of workers, in order to reduce standards that are only temporary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the principle of subsidiarity is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, but it remains purely theoretical. just to give you a few examples: under the flexibility clause in article 352 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu may adopt rules without the consent of national parliaments if this is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties. listen to this! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the so-called passerelle clause, article 311, the eu gives itself the possibility and the right to levy its own taxes. what about subsidiarity? the only way to achieve better legislation is to have it in the institutions directly elected by the people, namely the european parliament and, of course, especially the national parliaments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank the members for their contributions to the debate. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions in this context. i have a few questions which remain unanswered in the course of the answering session. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is not about the procedure, but about the first stage. i want that to be clear. there was a commission communication in 2002 which clearly includes deadlines. this was the communication on relations with the complainant. it was already in there. why can't this be done? i'm sorry about that. i would ask you to reconsider that position, because this proposal does not in any way interfere with the commission's powers. they have promised better cooperation with the member states. yes, that's good and right. but it cannot, of course, replace clear implementation control, because otherwise we would be reduced to goodwill and a level of friendship, and that is certainly not appropriate for the legal system. we are still finding an imbalance in the infringement procedures. environmental protection is much less of a focus than is security, for example. it's a warning. there are extensions for fine dust violations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but this is often used by member states to repeal environmental laws. if that is the aim and if it is supported by the commission, then you will not have my approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can't risk that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the annual report should primarily reflect progress made. this year's report is essentially the same as last year's or even 2008's. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issues are the same, the member states concerned are the same. for years, a large proportion of petitions have been referring to the ep shortcomings in the implementation of environmental directives. perhaps it is time to rethink the nature of legislation in this area and to consider various options to finally tackle the number of breaches of eu law. is there a need for additional commission guidance on implementation or for more stringent controls? in the committee's work we rely on active cooperation with the commission and the council in the form of opinions, with the council often absent from committee meetings. we definitely need to revise the way we work. our work is delayed, even undermined, if the debates in committee are not followed by action. the declining trend in new petitions may be correct. however, the decline could also mean that citizens no longer see their right to petition at eu level as a viable option. i support the demands made in the report without reservation.
i have to say, madam president, let me make a comment. other colleagues have praised this model of questioning, i do not. i'll admit you've tried to put some order into the system, but it's not working. this model is, i beg your pardon, unsatisfactory for two reasons: first of all, i lack the transparency. i would like to know if or when i will be available, so i would suggest that you publish a list of speakers so that you can get set up. secondly, it is not satisfactory for me to sit here for two and a half hours and then not to have any contact at all. this can't be the answer. if you allow for transparency beforehand, then you can be prepared to wait or not to wait. but in those two and a half hours - there were very interesting questions, and above all very interesting answers - i could have done something else than sit here and wait, and then, like many other colleagues, not get it. i ask you to change this format again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market is our growth potential. the small business act and the single market act are together our reform engine. small and mediumsized enterprises, micro and mediumsized enterprises, are our instrument for growth and employment in the european union if we remember this: small and mediumsized enterprises first at home and internationally. we need an sme passport in all kinds of educational and research projects. smes are a cross-sectional issue if we want to start from the bottom, to create growth and jobs. we already have european companies as stronger companies in the international arena than those in the usa or japan. but still only 25% of all smes in the eu are exporting, 50% of them exporting to third countries. however, only 13% of all smes are active in third countries. smes that operate internationally create more jobs. international smes reported 7% more jobs, non-international smes only 1%. smes that operate internationally perform better. 26 per cent of these smes launched products or services that were new to their sector and to their country. of the other small enterprises, only 8% did so. competitiveness and internationalisation are therefore linked. we have a shortage of young, innovative companies. only 6% of new firms created since 1975 are european, over 70% are american. we need to catch up. let us seize the opportunity to free smes and the single market from the shackles!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are in a financial, economic and debt crisis. i believe that everything that is currently distributed in liquidity must also be re-worked, and it is usually done by smes, small and medium-sized enterprises. we have a problem here, of course, because we import a lot, whether from china, the arabian peninsula, russia, whether energy or raw materials, everything has to be paid for. we can only pay for that if the export works. that is why it is so important that we work to ensure that the wto round is finally concluded. we need the doha round, with the trade facilitations that have already been negotiated, with public tenders, with competition law, with the so-called singapore issues. we must press for progress in the world trade organization here. on the other hand, we are now coming to the financial framework up to 2020. the old cip programme is to be re-launched. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we have too many unemployed and too few entrepreneurs. so we need programs to make it attractive again to be an entrepreneur. i would therefore like to take up mr caspary's suggestion that we should perhaps develop programmes here together with eurochambres or eurocommerce, where we go out to the interesting exporting countries of the world and help small and mediumsized enterprises to establish contacts here. i have also been promoting the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme for some time now, not only in europe but particularly internationally, because it is a way of bringing people together: trust makes business and business creates jobs. that is why support for solvit is very important in order to remove the barriers that exist here in the internal market. that is our job and we must do it.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start by thanking my colleague skylakakis, with whom i started this initiative, because i believe that we must use all the means at our disposal to combat climate change. i know that we have a fighter in this area in connie hedegaard and she will also implement the necessary initiatives that we are calling for in this resolution. we want to help them to make these things happen. we know that the montreal protocol was the first successful international treaty, concluded in 1987, and that it now has over 196 contracting states. it has contributed very much to the reduction of these ozone-depleting substances, but at the same time it also has the side effect of restricting substances which are also relevant to climate change, such as hfcs, at costs which are much lower than those of avoiding co2. so i think we should also focus on this fight for economic and social reasons, because it is much easier to achieve economically than reducing co2, which in some areas does have some costs for our economy. this is where we should start, because we know that we can be very successful, and at very little cost. the second area, of course, is the reduction of soot. we know that soot as an aerosol also contributes to global warming and, in particular, by being deposited on snow and ice surfaces, accelerates their melting. it is produced by the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels. we can also prevent this phenomenon by regulating it at a relatively low cost in the european area. a final area is the ground-level ozone, which is also very climate relevant. the precursors are created in particular by cars. here we must strengthen and improve the implementation of the rules we have created through the air quality and subsidiary directives, so that the production of this climate-relevant gas is also prevented. i would like to ask the commissioner to continue her fight here. you have a lot of support in parliament. i would like to remind you once again that we must be united in the fight against climate change. but let us all choose the cheapest option.
the current debt crisis calls for swift, decisive and joint action. the european commission is particularly needed here, and it must exercise its rights and duties more vigorously. it must not hide behind hesitant member states but must take a proactive leadership role. an even weaker euro or, worse, a state failure, will cost far more than solidarity support for highly indebted member states. the european institutions, in particular the commission and parliament, need the resources to deal with this crisis. however, these countries, and greece in particular, must do more to get their budgets under control.
in writing. the crisis is pervasive in our debates. we are united in diversity but despite and precisely because of this unity, it is clear that all citizens are called upon to contribute with all their strength. this starts with the states which have to meet their financial obligations; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it cannot be that the responsibility lies solely with our citizens. more europe means more investment in the long term in the education of all our citizens - creating the opportunity for new and sustainable jobs; and when there's more work, there's more tax revenue for the state.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this paragraph is about the reform of the wto, on which we are more or less in agreement. but there's a special matter that needs to be settled. on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to ask for a separate vote on the words 'and stakeholders'. if this is agreed by the members, i would ask the s&d group to vote against these two words 'and stakeholders'; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the main point is amendment no 15. i would like to see an additional separate vote on the words 'and stakeholders', so that it is possible to vote for the whole paragraph but against the words 'and stakeholders'.
in writing. - i have consistently abstained from voting on the european globalisation adjustment fund for some time now. as i support the idea behind the egf, i cannot simply reject any of the applications. however, in the course of my work in the committee on budgets, i have come across requests which give rise to the suspicion that the rules on the egf are too loose. the report is the first to include such a requirement in the text of the report, and more specifically to ask the commission to present a comparative evaluation of this information in its annual reports. i have nevertheless abstained again in today's vote until the appropriate assessment has been made.
in writing. − the report deals with the commission's proposal for a regulation to establish at eu level the legal framework to combat market abuse and market manipulation in the form of insider trading in the energy, gas and electricity sectors. i agree with the rapporteur that the sectoral approach has been adopted to allow the provisions to be tailored to the specific circumstances of each sector and thus to increase the chances of success accordingly. i also support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur as regards the content of the regulation, in particular a uniform and therefore effective system of sanctions.
in writing. - i have of course agreed to the report. as a member of the committee on petitions, i have a lot of experience of the difficult struggle of citizens against national authorities. the committee has also repeatedly called for more transparency in relation to developments in pending infringement proceedings. the demands made in this report, which focuses on the first stage of the infringement procedure, the administrative phase, and calls for a separate procedural code to legislate for citizen participation and transparency, can only be supported.
in writing. − transparency has been an essential citizen's right since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the associated binding nature of the eu charter of fundamental rights. in order to ensure that this right is effectively enforced, clear definitions and explanatory obligations for refusals are needed. the problems that have accumulated over the years have made it necessary to legislate. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - the report by mr duff on the amendment of the rules of procedure concerning the hearings of commissioners-designate is very technical in nature, but contains some sensitive restrictions on the rights of members of the european parliament. the commission's proposal is to allow only the political group coordinators to draw up the evaluation for the committee after consulting the commissioner-designate concerned. the commission is also proposing that only the two presidents of the council and the european council be invited to the hearings, rather than all the council members as is the case at present. in sum, we can therefore speak of a further unnecessary and unjustified curtailment of the rights of members. efficiency may be increased. but it is at the expense of democracy, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − the present report gives the coordinators an important - almost exclusive - role in the evaluation and appointment of commissioners. as a non-attached member of the european parliament, and therefore discriminated against, and regularly excluded from the meetings of the coordinators (the official interpretation of rule 192 of the rules of procedure), i object to this provision. the appointment and evaluation of commissioners are important tasks in terms of checks and balances between the eu institutions. it is not possible for a body from which some members are unjustifiably excluded to have this central competence. i therefore voted against.
in writing. − the negotiations, which began in doha (qatar) in 2001, are still stuck after ten years. the last attempt at an agreement was in geneva in 2008. it failed to meet the demands of the economically strong emerging countries of china and india. the united states' intransigence had made a consensus impossible. the motion for a resolution does not reflect the new balance of power in the wto negotiations, which were used by china and india in particular as a platform for power-play with the industrialized countries. the commission also found that the chinese export restrictions on raw materials are not sufficiently appreciated. the wto's condemnation is unlikely to move the country to increase its exports of raw materials. the eu is in danger of unilaterally liberalising its trade. this would create a distortion of competition to the benefit of the other wto members. this approach is already foreseen in this report. the commission has also been unable to find a solution to the problems of intellectual property protection. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the principle of subsidiarity is one of the pillars of the eu. unfortunately, this principle is increasingly being ignored or passed over for the sake of it. on the one hand, unpopular decisions which would not be politically enforceable at national level are being imposed through the eu, and on the other hand, there are repeated attempts to interfere with subsidiary rights and state sovereignty. the alleged strengthening of national parliaments is in no way a counterbalance to the de facto abolition of subsidiarity. the development in this respect is worrying and is not dealt with in this report. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. − it is important that citizens of the union and natural or legal persons have a right to petition parliament on eu activities in order to bring the effects of eu law to parliament. the main complaints are about shortcomings in the application of european legislation, but also about decisions taken by national authorities or requests for help on the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market, with the remaining uncertainty about eu competences leading to a number of petitions being rejected as inadmissible. the report highlights that petitions for the return of property have decreased significantly compared to previous years. the european parliament must step up its efforts to combat the unjust laws that still exist, namely the avnoj provisions and the benesch decrees. i have not voted on this because it is not mentioned in the report.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report, as i have already done in the committee itself. the detailed data collected annually enable us to clearly identify the shortcomings and problems on which we must concentrate. now it is time to work on these problem areas.
in writing. − homelessness is a widespread problem throughout the european union, which is difficult to tackle. the reasons why a person becomes homeless are many, and so are the ways in which people can be rescued from this emergency. however, this requires coordinated cooperation between public and private organisations that are concerned with this population. homeless people are marginalized because they don't have the basic right to housing. this makes it almost impossible for them to return to work and to live a regular life. the downward spiral keeps spinning. child neglect and addiction are inevitable consequences. i voted against the resolution because i believe that the problem of 'homelessness' can only be solved at national level, since each country has different opportunities and social networks.
in writing. − in the eu, more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty, representing 16% of the population. 20 million of those affected are children, and even employment in itself is no guarantee of a secure life in the eu: 8% of the working population is at risk of poverty. the resolution by the committee on employment and social affairs sets out proposals for implementing the 2020 strategy, which includes the objective of reducing the number of people affected by poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. i agreed to it.
in writing. - climate change has been happening since the beginning of our planet, as science has now demonstrated in a very impressive way. ice ages and interglacials have shaped the planet, bringing changes to flora and fauna. now the earth is said to be in a state of change again. however, there are still reasonable doubts that man alone can be held responsible for these changes. new climate targets are agreed on a regular basis, and failure to meet them can result in draconian penalties. under the guise of 'climate action', there is a trade that is swallowing billions of euros worldwide, without being sure that it could make a lasting difference. i did not vote for the resolution because, as i said, i do not believe that it has been proved that climate change is caused or even aggravated by human activity.
in writing. − ambitious and coordinated action is needed at all levels to tackle climate change effectively. the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety rightly calls for a comprehensive european climate change policy which takes account of all the causes of global warming and all the possible measures to combat it. the european union committed itself in cancún to helping to limit the global average annual increase in surface temperature to 2°c. the motion for a resolution contains a large number of proposals, suggestions and specific demands. i therefore agreed.
the commission has already done so. political upheavals are undoubtedly always accompanied by a certain amount of chaos. whether libya will be plunged into chaos will depend on the success of the democratic system and on how the past is dealt with. last but not least, the violence surrounding the mubarak trial, as well as the turkish denial of the armenian genocide, show that dealing with the past seems to be a bit problematic in the arab world. but when the rift between the political leadership of the rebellion and the rebel military is bridged, chaos is likely to be pre-programmed. the large quantities of weapons seized are particularly flammable. who will disarm the young enthusiasts? and what happens when local rivalries turn to gun violence? not to mention the possibility that heavy weapons or missiles could be in the hands of terrorists. a un mission may certainly be conducive to peace, but it could also be misunderstood as interference in the face of libyan national pride. the worst test, however, is surely to be met if islamists can take advantage of the power vacuum. the eu therefore needs a well-thought-out libya strategy, even though we know that the release of the frozen funds alone could be enough to finance libya's reconstruction. however, if oil production is restored, there could be an economic boom, which would certainly benefit the eu.
i have to say, madam president, libya is to become a state of law that's very good , based on sharia that's less good. the miracle is to be accomplished by mustafa abd al-jalil, gaddafi's minister of justice until february. that's what worries me. libya is free, liberated from libyan rebels - great respect for that - but with the proper support of nato. of course, there will be a price. it is not for nothing that western democracies have already sought contact with gaddafi in order to get their hands on the black gold. in recent years alone, heads of state have courted schröder, berlusconi, sarkozy, blair colonel gaddafi. and in the background, america, which knows very well that you can make more money by exporting petroleum technology and not have to get your hands dirty. europe must therefore support libya in its efforts to establish a democratic and pluralist society, a society that builds structures based on the rule of law, that respects human rights and knows that europe can and must be a good partner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of the greens-efa group in this parliament i also want to strongly condemn the escalating use of force against peaceful protestors in syria and the brutal, systematic persecution of activists, pro-democracy activists, human rights activists and journalists. i also demand full access to syria by international humanitarian and human rights organisations and international media. we also fully support the resolution of the un human rights council of 23 august 2011 which demanded that an international independent commission should be dispatched to syria to investigate the human rights violations in syria which may amount to crimes against humanity. but there is another issue where i feel the european union and this parliament are not as united as they should be – an issue that ms schaake has also just referred to – which is the question of business relations with syria. i agree that in our resolution we demand that sanctions are also put into effect on assets in syria, on oil production in syria, but my group – the greens – also requested that it should also be made clear that the eu member states step up sanctions against syria by banning european companies from investing in the syrian energy sector. this amendment has not got a majority in this house, so i ask whether we should not also demand that eu companies who are still investing in syria, who are still getting profits from syria, break with assad and stop doing business with this cruel and atrocious regime.
i have to say, madam president, with sugar and whips, with a few social concessions and brutal violence, the syrian president is trying to keep his head in the game, we know that. not only the west, but also the arab league and the gulf cooperation council have called on assad to make serious reforms and to stop the bloodshed. the eu's measures to date, such as arms embargoes, account closures and the suspension of oil imports, are certainly weighing on the syrian economy; the commission has not yet decided whether the proposed investment ban will have any effect. what is certain is that as economic pressure increases, the noose around assad's neck is tightening as popular discontent grows. however, whether syria is really on the brink of civil war is questionable. on the one hand, the military remains loyal to the regime, and on the other, there seems to be no city that is not under regime control and could become a hotbed of physical resistance. if assad gives in to economic pressure and a civil war really breaks out, a wave of refugees into the european union is to be expected. i think that we should make the necessary arrangements now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm asking you to stop this. the lady who's asking questions is already packing. she doesn't even wait for an answer. a question on the blue card procedure is provided for in the rules of procedure. it is an important issue, a burning issue, and i ask that everyone here be given the opportunity to ask a question and also to speak. i find this game unacceptable and ask that it be stopped and that all members present be treated according to the same guidelines and rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in this whole debate, i am concerned about turkey's new role as the protector of the islamic world. turkey, in particular, is trying to fill the vacuum created by the arab spring. so erdogan is considered - and this is crazy - the most popular leader in the arab world right now, even though he is not an arab! the foreign policy of erdoğan is characterized by the weakening of relations with the west in general and with israel in particular. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, which has been a major player in the negotiations with israel. trade relations with israel have been severed, and erdogan is threatening further measures. this aggressive attitude at israel's expense is intended to serve ankara to establish its hegemony in the region. i hope they'll be able to defuse it. it must now be clear to even the most naive of the pro-accessionists that turkey has no place in the eu with this aggressive geostrategic or regional policy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know from personal experience how important a genuine whistleblower protection can be to the fight against corruption. these include, first, a detailed definition of the term, second, precise rights and obligations, third, precise processing times, fourth, a right to be heard and informed, fifth, targeted training for eu officials and sixth, an independent contact point that informs about opportunities anonymously. articles 22a and 22b of the eu staff regulations do not meet these criteria. we have no real whistleblower protection in the eu institutions. but what we have is an imminent reform of the eu civil service, and that is a huge opportunity. i therefore ask the commission and the council: are you prepared to reform article 22a and article 22b now? are you prepared to make a suitable and appropriate proposal now?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is estimated that corruption in the eu already costs €120 billion each year, equivalent to about 1% of eu gdp, or almost the entire annual budget. particular attention should be paid to the bankrupt states. president harry truman, almost prophetically, said 63 years ago that just as a rotten apple can infect others in the basket, so greek corruption can spread throughout europe via italy. what's the situation today? according to transparency international, greece is the world leader in corruption. the commission's action must be consistent in defining the facts of corruption. we also need effective and deterrent sanctions mechanisms, otherwise the eu will soon be a basket of rotten apples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just a quick question: mr. mayor, do you think that whistleblowers play an important role in the fight against corruption? and the other question is: if so, what will you do to ensure that the eu institutions have adequate whistleblower protection?
first of all, thank you for asking. of course, it is important that those who contribute to the creation of clarity are given appropriate protection. it shall also be ensured that this function is adequately protected. you have already made some suggestions yourself as to what steps should be taken. i believe that some provisions must be included in the statute to give the officials the opportunity to do so.
the commission has already done so. the great poverty and the continuing famine in east africa and in somalia in particular are certainly politically motivated, we know that. the failure of the harvest is accompanied by a catastrophic mix of speculation and growing demand for fuel and, of course, the inability to distribute food from regions with good harvests in their own country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also worrying that development aid is all too often squandered by the african elites and that, for example, somali aid is used by militias to finance war. it is also a big mistake that development aid is not working as hard to curb the birth explosion. in any case, donations and emergency aid can only help in the short term, but they do not really solve the problems. one of the causes, namely food speculation, will hopefully now be stopped by the eu. in this context, the european union may have to reconsider its biofuel standards. after all, the amount of corn needed to make 100 liters of biofuel could feed a person for a year. overall, it must be said that with targeted aid that only promotes survival until the next disaster, you not only deprive africans of their dignity, but also - and this is perhaps even worse - the drive to solve the problems themselves. there must be a general rethinking of development policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. right now, the most urgent thing is to help the people on the ground. but it's like a disease: it's not enough to just treat the symptoms, we need long-term help, we need to fight the causes. it is not just a problem caused by drought and local conflicts, but also a problem for which we as europeans and above all the european union have a responsibility. we are now faced with a decision on the future agricultural policy of the european union, and in this context too we must not lose sight of this particular famine. because if we do not fundamentally change our agricultural policy, if we do not fundamentally change our food policy, our energy policy, then we will also have disasters in the future like the ones we are seeing in africa now. that is why i am voting against the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can only emphasize one thing that has been said many times today: we need more awareness and, above all, more financial resources for prevention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health sector is not left behind. when i look at the figures that have been mentioned today, 97 percent of the european average, but also the western world average, goes to treatment, to medication, and only 3 percent to prevention, these are figures that make you think: first, because by early prevention, by preventing and preventing disease, we could help people live longer in health, not just longer. second, because we can also help consolidate and improve our health care systems in the long term, because anything i avoid today will not cost me anything later. i mean, we have to look at it from that angle, too. i think our approach to health in all policies is very important. we're not just going to be able to do this in health care, we're going to need this in all areas of life, including the workplace.
madam president, on behalf of the european advocates for epilepsy working group, and on behalf of my colleagues mr mitchell, mr deva, ms harkin and mr skinner, i want to thank those who signed our written declaration no 22 on epilepsy for their support. we have received 440 signatures. i expect the commission to take this initiative and help more than 6 million people in europe. special thanks also go to ms fisker and mr nucci from parliament’s secretariat for their support.
i have to say, madam president, it is really necessary to record who has the voting system not working. i hate to agree with mr schulz, but it is very difficult to come to his place and vote when the vote has already been taken. this, of course, distorts the whole vote. i urge you to clarify and record who has the voting system not working.
in writing. − the eu wants to offer those countries, in particular the republic of moldova, the opportunity, through the european neighbourhood policy, to negotiate a comprehensive free trade area, creating a positive economy through a harmonised business and investment climate. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been active in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. − after six months of fighting the gaddafi regime, the transitional council should receive international and eu support to ensure a swift and orderly transition to a socially and economically functioning government. this assistance is provided at the request of the national transitional council (ntc). other leaders in the region are called upon to learn the lessons of the libyan experience and to respond to the great demands of the people for their rights and freedom with respect, responsibility and a solution-oriented approach.
in writing. - corruption is a serious criminal offence in all countries of the world, including the eu, and must be tackled with all the necessary determination. in addition to the enormous economic damage caused by corrupt practices, it also erodes people's confidence in the rule of law. however, corruption knows no borders and is therefore a problem that can only be tackled by all eu member states acting together to ensure that it is tackled effectively. this area of serious crime threatens the eu's internal security, as corruption creates not only distortions of competition and misuse of eu taxpayers' money, but also social problems. these include the formation of criminal organizations, drug trafficking, and human trafficking, which can be covered up by bribery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework for judicial cooperation is established. i voted for the resolution because i believe it is high time that political decision-makers show the will and take responsibility to fight corruption effectively at all levels.
in writing. - it is estimated that corruption costs the eu €120 billion every year. this is equivalent to 1% of eu gdp - almost the entire annual budget of the eu! apart from the economic component, corruption undermines the basic principle of the rule of law, which in turn leads to citizens' increasingly distrust of a country's politicians and leaders. corruption is found throughout the eu, although the bankrupt state of greece ranks last in the eu in terms of fighting corruption, according to transparency international. so this calls for special attention. i am clearly in favour of an efficient eu-wide fight against corruption. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the application of the principle of proportionality. we also need effective and dissuasive sanction mechanisms. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - corruption is a serious and excessive crime. since the misuse of public funds, especially in times of financial and economic crisis, has adverse effects on financial interests at regional, national and eu level, corruption creates social problems. and it will make it easier for dictators to funnel huge amounts of money into the eu to be able to use when they need to. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the rights of individuals and the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. − the concern is that development aid is often squandered by african elites and somali aid is used by militias to finance war. it is also a big mistake that development aid is not working as intensively to curb the birth explosion. donations and emergency aid can only help in the short term, but they cannot solve the problems. one of the causes, food speculation, will hopefully be curbed by the eu. in this context, the eu will have to reconsider its biofuel requirements. with targeted aid that only promotes survival until the next disaster, you not only deprive africans of their dignity, but also of the drive to solve the problems. this is where development policy needs to be re-examined. i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − it is worrying that development aid for africa is often misunderstood and only managed in a specific way. this is a short-term development aid and not sustainable. this is only a short-term way of ensuring survival until the next disaster. we are not only robbing africans of their dignity, but we are also preventing them from solving their own problems. we are also depriving them of their livelihoods through ever-increasing food speculation. it would be good to ensure that financial institutions engaged in speculation on the markets for basic foodstuffs and agricultural commodities cease their abusive speculative activities which promote high and volatile food prices. the fight against the suffering in the horn of africa and other developing countries must be above profits and revenues from speculation in food prices. in this context, the eu will also have to rethink its biofuel requirements. because the amount of corn used to make 100 liters of biofuel could provide food for a year. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the european union's integrated maritime policy (emas) is based on the principle of the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on famine in africa, but i very much regret that two important recitals were rejected because of the conservative majority. there is a very strong link between food price fluctuations and famine! the greed of some financial market participants has been documented by studies by the world development movement and the world bank: goldman sachs alone earned 5 trillion euros in 2009 from commodity trading. the resulting high and volatile food prices make it difficult for many victims of the famine in east africa to survive. moreover, transparency in the commodity market is a must.
in writing. − noncommunicable diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease are the number one cause of death today. the who predicts a 15 percent increase in deaths from noncommunicable diseases between 2010 and 2020. the main risk factors are high blood pressure, smoking, high blood sugar, lack of physical activity, overweight and obesity, and alcoholism. in developed countries, measures to lower blood pressure and cholesterol have proved successful. in principle, affluence disorders are a social problem. in this context, it is particularly worrying that the number of hours of sport is being continuously reduced in school curricula. in principle, actions such as information for the public and better labelling of ingredients in food, etc., are welcome. but the population must not be patronized. in the context of diseases such as cancer and respiratory diseases, it is also necessary to investigate the side effects of a combination of radioactivity, genetically modified food and pesticides as risk factors that have been neglected so far. the points raised are not in the motion for a resolution, and i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. − in modern society, obesity, lack of exercise, stress, high blood pressure, nicotine and alcohol addiction, and increased caffeine consumption have become mass problems. this carries the risk of increased susceptibility to certain noncommunicable diseases, such as cancer and cardiovascular problems. these diseases are the number one cause of death today. since the causes are mainly social, one must also start here: most consumers want to eat healthy food, but they are often misled. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the dangers of excessive stress and lack of sleep should also be brought to the attention of the child, since the child's consciousness is not as sharp as that of nicotine or alcohol. education must also be provided at school from an early age and the natural urge to exercise and eat healthily must be encouraged. but we must not forget the dangers which are not being taken into account because of the strong influence of the lobby: i am thinking of nuclear power, genetically modified organisms and the radiation emitted by mobile phones. it takes courage to address these issues in relation to noncommunicable diseases. this has not been done, despite the good approaches in the motion for a resolution. i refrained from doing so.
in writing. − from 23 january to 17 february 2012, another itu world radio conference will be held in geneva. as the radio sector is a major economic factor, it is in the eu's interest to bring the individual member states on a common track. in multilateral negotiations, a single position should be adopted to promote the advancement of european interests and to achieve global synergies such as economies of scale. in order to exploit the full potential of the possibilities for innovation in the field of radio frequency technology, coordinated cooperation between member states is essential. i have abstained because the resolution does not make it clear to what extent national interests are still represented.
in writing. − the itu world radiocommunication conference will take place in geneva from january to february 2012. it is important that the eu has a strong and unified voice in this area, because the radio sector is a major economic factor today. companies will only set up in areas where there is a universal radio infrastructure. it is therefore sensible that we work together at eu level to achieve synergies. on the other hand, too little attention is paid to national interests. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − to ensure that europe can make the most of the opportunities offered by the digital economy, a fully functioning pan-european single market must be created. the european states will only be able to play a significant role in multinational negotiations if they find a unified position in advance. in order to achieve economies of scale in the use of radio spectrum, it is important that member states fully endorse the policy guidelines.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the arrest of civil rights activist ales belyatzki is a major blow to the opponents of the regime in belarus. interestingly, lithuania provided unfortunate legal aid to lukashenko: as part of a bilateral safeguards agreement aimed at curbing money laundering and tax evasion, vilnius transferred account information of belarusian citizens to minsk. belyacki's movement also deposited modest funds in the neighboring country. using this account information, the government was able to finally track down and arrest the civil rights activist. that's how fast it can go! that should make us think. it shows how sensitive the transfer of banking data abroad is ultimately. personally, i hope that this has not caused a lasting break in diplomatic relations between vilnius and belarusian civil society, and i hope that ales belyatzki will finally get his due.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in early september, the sudanese government declared a state of emergency in blue nile state. from the capital, there were bloody battles between the army and the troops of governor malik agar. as a result, 16,000 residents of the town of kurmuk - which is actually the entire population of the garrison town - fled the fighting towards ethiopia. it is therefore all the more important that the african union finally intensifies its cooperation with the international criminal court. the awareness of human rights must be promoted throughout africa and their respect guaranteed. we urgently need an end to impunity for all the crimes committed during the war in sudan. the trial in the hague of president omar al-bashir is only the beginning in terms of the rule of law, but also in terms of justice for the victims. without the rule of law, there will always be old and new so-called failed states in this region, which will ultimately depend on the industrialized nations of the west and the east.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm following your suggestion to stay here, of course. i shall remain here, but may i ask you, as you announced last time, not to look straight ahead, but to let your friendly gaze wander left and right. then you can see if anyone comes to the next debate with a blank card. i would have, but it's very difficult to speak properly with a white card to catch the eye if you're not looking at the page. i ask for your understanding and i hope you will look away from this page. i'd like to sign up for catch the eye.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and ask the commissioner to be a little more demanding, particularly on budgetary matters. we have this programme now, with an increase to 50 billion, 80 billion euros, but with the inclusion of many other programmes, so the net increase is very small. the question therefore arises: can we not work out a joint programme with the national finance ministers for the european union's own resources, for example the auction proceeds for the co2 problem areas, so that these funds can only be spent on european added value, namely to accompany co2 and climate warming with scientific, research and innovation? commissioner, would you be prepared to have these talks and try to put together a programme with european added value in addition to the financial framework now under discussion, which will help us in the short term to better research the issues of climate warming and co2 and to put solutions and - especially for small and mediumsized enterprises - appropriate products and services in place, so that the forward strategy for europe will also be sound?
i have to say, madam president, if we look at the value chain of a product - i.e. invention, production and marketing - in international competition, we can see that: the second step, production, has been largely outsourced to asia. value creation in europe is based on research, development and marketing. if we are to maintain this standard, we must provide sufficient funds for research, especially in the economic crisis. if we cut off our capacity for innovation, we will move ever more towards recession. synergies between existing support schemes are welcome but must be evaluated separately. major projects such as galileo should be run in a separate project line and not be a burden on the r & i budget. the research and development budget should be substantially increased and synergistically linked with the structural and cohesion funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also congratulate mrs matias on this report. europe is the richest region globally, but the us, japan and the bric countries invest much more in innovation, research and development. while investment in europe has increased, only six countries have so far exceeded the target of 3% of gdp by 2020. knowledge is definitely a public good. the social aspects and impacts of research and innovation on society must therefore be taken into account. particular attention must be paid to smes. women scientists should be given special support to take account of gender equality.
in writing. the agreement in question will certainly contribute to the development of the palestinian economy by allowing duty-free import of palestinian agricultural products into the eu market and thus facilitating the export of palestinian products to the eu. in this respect, it represents an important boost for the palestinian economy, which is currently in crisis. the situation in the palestinian territories is alarming, according to the world bank, because of the serious poverty and unemployment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is therefore in israel's interest in particular to support this development. the construction of the separation wall in the west bank is a major obstacle in these respects and must be stopped immediately where it does not directly affect israel's security interests. the non-tariff barriers imposed by israel are also a barrier. i welcome the approach adopted in the report to require the exact designation of origin of products.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. taiwan is apparently seeking - we know this - economic agreements with the us and the european union to play a key role in the projected and expected rise of east asia. the commission has already made a number of proposals. from computers to software to solar technology, innovation in the sectors of the future is largely taking place in asia. it is a dangerous development if in the long term only marketing, sales and logistics remain in europe. and it is all too easy for competition from the east to turn into an industrial war if, for example, chinese solar producers can, thanks to generous loans, dump their products on the market. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the eu will therefore have to show a lot of tact and no doubt also foresight in a trade agreement with taiwan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for the past year, china and taiwan have been moving closer together, and there are now scheduled flights between taiwan and the mainland - unthinkable a few years ago - and mutual tourism and student exchanges are being promoted. the volume of trade between the two countries is increasing rapidly, and these developments seem to me to be of little account to the eu. trade relations with taiwan are being neglected. the state is liberal anyway, the tariff rate is low, and there are hardly any non-tariff barriers to trade. there is a free trade agreement with korea. however, this distorts competition because taiwan and korea are engaged in the same business areas. it would therefore be advantageous to also consider taiwan as an important trading partner. those who trade with taiwan should not expect or fear a boycott from beijing. the eu must therefore be clear about these new developments and act accordingly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we all know that tourism is an industry of fundamental importance. we have received a wealth of suggestions on how we can work together to keep tourism competitive throughout europe. an important part is the development of quality tourism. we should set some priorities here so that we can develop this quality tourism. first, we must invest more than ever in the training of our staff. we must break down barriers to open up new markets, for example by facilitating the issuing of tourist visas. we must move towards the gradual harmonisation of hotel classification systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president shall ask the speaker to recuse himself.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a sharia court is now being set up in the belgian city of antwerp. the initiative is being taken by the radical organisation islam for belgium. the aim is to create a parallel legal system. the court is to offer mediation in particular in family disputes. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of family law in the eu. for women, this means oppression, because women and men do not have the same rights under sharia. criminal law should also be dealt with. legal experts fear that this will hinder the belgian authorities from prosecuting so-called cultural crimes such as honour killings and forced marriages. sharia courts are cementing parallel societies that have nothing to do with our understanding of human rights. if we allow muslims to set up their own sharia courts, this is the end of a liberal european rule of law.
(parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, we should focus on urgent and essential issues in road safety. i am very much convinced of this, and i believe that this applies primarily to the two greatest distractors in traffic, alcohol and speeding. the european union must also have a say in this matter and not just propose technical measures, which in my view are good but far from sufficient. in cities, in particular, the lack of attention - the problem of inattentive drivers - is particularly dramatic. that's why we need to slow down the speed here. i was very positively surprised that there was a large majority in favour of tempo 30 as a recommendation. the report also contains a number of important points which i think are important and desirable. firstly, we must pay special attention to the vulnerable road users and i hope that these measures will be implemented.
in writing. most of the european road network is designed to be the size of trucks that are common today. however, the commission is in favour of the so-called 'gigaliners'. gigaliners can be up to 80 feet [25 m] long and weigh up to 200 pounds [60 t]. these giants obscure the view of motorists, and overtaking on long-distance roads increases dramatically. furthermore, significantly higher damage is to be expected in both man and machine if a collision occurs. the eu's target of halving road fatalities by 2020 is therefore far from being achieved. in addition, road freight transport is expected to increase. i therefore strongly advocate banning the 'gigaliner' from road transport and favouring safer modes of transport such as shipping.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the rapporteur. it has done the right thing, it has constructed a slim own-initiative report and it only addresses the essential points that parliament wants to have in the legislative proposal that the commission will now propose in the autumn. it would not have been right to inflate the report, but we have only to discuss the principles now. we all know that it can affect any member state. it can be struck by a natural disaster or a technical disaster with great human suffering and great economic damage. the extent of the damage has been raised on several occasions. now we find that these damages have been increasing massively in recent years, and the degree of interconnectedness and complexity of our societies is increasing. it is a logical consequence that we must come from europe with a reinforced action. the commission should therefore take into account in its proposal, as the commissioner has already indicated, that the member states must remain primarily responsible, that is to say, bottom-up, but that europe must play a very strong coordinating role. i have a question for you, commissioner. it is your very own competence we are discussing here. the committee on foreign affairs nevertheless calls for the high representative to play a very strong role. i am concerned that in the commission's competence disputes it is not clear who is actually responsible and responsible. we should clarify this at the outset, so as not to get into double standards. it's also important that we focus resources, that we think ahead and improve that preparation so that we can then act really quickly. i myself was rapporteur for this flood policy, and here too it has been seen that if we are well prepared, we can save lives and also avoid economic damage. i hope, commissioner, that you will come forward with a proposal to that effect as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, it is becoming important to increase the efficiency of disaster response in the eu. but we must also learn from recent disasters and abandon particularly risky technologies such as nuclear energy and deep-sea drilling. in addition, directives relating to potential hazards must be properly implemented. this was not the case, for example, in the mudslide accident in the hungarian kolontar. i think that a permanent eu disaster response force is only partly appropriate. in some areas, yes, such as joint firefighting aircraft, but in principle i believe that the principle of self-help must be respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in countries such as austria, germany and south tyrol, this preventive disaster protection is exemplary and is available on a voluntary basis. this should be seen as a model in the eu. i say this as someone who has been a member of a volunteer fire department since i was 14.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr caspary, on his excellent report. it covers key areas which are essential for a revised trade strategy of the european union and shows the paths to be followed to keep europe internationally competitive in the future. i would like to make three points in particular: the european parliament has clearly committed itself to a multilateral trading system which sets uniform rules and standards. we need a common trading framework which we must continue to work on together and which we must continue to develop together. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. on the other hand, europe is facing strong competition from new economic powers which will continue to expand their position in the coming years. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to emphasise my demand, which was supported by a majority of the european parliament: that every eu trade agreement with third countries must include a sustainability chapter covering the production and processing of goods. in the event of non-compliance, trade with these third countries is to be suspended. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food we eat is of high quality and that it is hormone-free.
as everybody is speaking english here, maybe in honour of the president i will try to do so as well, so i hope it works. mr de gucht, i have a question regarding the wto case concerning china and the rare earth problem. i think nobody would say that china is right in this case. i think what the wto did in this case is the right step, but i have one concern. if the tendency in general is to make countries export rare materials, as the wto is doing now, do you not think, if a very small country or a developing country or a very weak country is involved, this tendency of the wto might allow big companies to force these countries to do as they want them to do? or do you think that will not be a problem?
mr commissioner, i do not want to be misunderstood, i completely support the action of the european union and yourself in this question. what i am just a little bit fearful of is that there might be a tendency, if the direction taken in this case continues as it is now, that maybe we will go further, from rare earth to raw materials. ultimately states will not be able to fulfil their obligations towards their own people with their own raw materials. do you think that this is a possibility or not? i personally think it will not happen but i would like to hear you say this as well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is necessary to make a brief point. this house has always been on the side of the democrats, not on the side of dictators, but on the side of those who stand for human rights. this is done in resolutions, which are certainly very important. i am all the more pleased that it is now being done in a report where economic interests are also involved. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we're preventing the future of surveillance software being handed out unchecked to dictators who can use it to monitor twitter and facebook conversations and to make activity profiles. these are european products which have been delivered to north africa. in the future, things will be different. the only flaw in this whole thing is that we're currently only checking after delivery. perhaps in our next report on dual-use items we can put this control before delivery. that's my request for next time.
in writing. − the eu is committed to improving the economic situation in palestine and thus the living conditions of the palestinians living there. trade can make an important contribution here. the eu has agreed to grant palestine duty-free access to the european market for agricultural and fishery products, thus signalling an important step towards sustainable development in the region. it is important, however, that these tariff concessions benefit only those concerned and are not abused. protection clauses are intended to guarantee this. in 2010, imports of goods from palestine into the eu amounted to a trade value of only eur 9.3 million. therefore, a strong impact on the eu market is excluded.
in writing. − an agreement between the european union and the palestinian authority on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products was signed in april 2011 in the form of an exchange of letters. according to the case law of the ecj, the palestinian territories are not considered to be israeli territories legally, and therefore these products cannot benefit from the tariff preferences provided for in the eu-israel agreement. on the other hand, the union was called upon to respect the rules of origin. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the bilateral air services agreement with mexico has been adjusted in line with the case law of the ecj as regards the naming clause (article 2), safety (article 3) and compatibility with eu competition law (article 4). i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde is classified as important for eu fishing activities, while eu fishing activities in cape verdean waters will have minimal impact on the sustainability of the waters, according to the evaluation report. the new protocol contains explicit provisions on the suspension of the correction of financial compensation for violations of fundamental human rights or democratic principles. the new protocol is also expected to make a significant contribution to cape verde's efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i agreed to it.
in writing. - there are a number of cooperation agreements with the united states. however, in the context of the much-cited trans-european partnership and in the light of the fiasco of the air passenger data agreement, one cannot help feeling that the eu is regularly dragged over the negotiating table. as an educated european, you are naturally cautious about any agreement you negotiate with the united states. i abstained because there are no clear benefits for the eu or signs of equal treatment in partnership.
in writing. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this ensures continuity and takes into account the fact that there is usually an increased need for euro cash transport in the run-up to a currency changeover. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − a common strategic framework and increased coordination of existing financial instruments will set a new path towards the current target of 3% of gdp for research and innovation by 2020. particular attention will be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for the largest share of the economy and the largest number of employees in all member states. i agreed to the report.
in writing. the first european school was founded in luxembourg in 1953. the european school is unique in that, after basic education in the mother tongue, it is compulsory to teach in english, french or german from the first grade of primary school. as the rapporteur in this report calls for a greater focus on type ii and type iii institutions in the future, and for this exceptional model of education to be available to a much larger number of children, i have agreed to the report.
in writing. the report addresses the problems facing the use of structural and cohesion funds and recommends simplification of rules and procedures. in particular, it is also called for the emphasis to be placed on rewarding results rather than on entrance examinations and for irregularities to be dealt with differently. it also recommends that member states be more involved by deepening partnership in fund management. i agreed to it.
in writing. − in the last 35 years, the number of annual disasters worldwide has increased fivefold. against this background, it is important to increase the efficiency of disaster response in the eu. of course, this requires better coordination between all the parties involved in order to achieve synergies and an increased exchange of best practice between the different member states. i am, however, opposed to a permanent eu disaster response force. you have to help each other where necessary, but in general the principle of helping to help yourself should apply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we can find ways to avoid them, we can ultimately avoid disasters like fukushima or the oil spill in the gulf of mexico. i shall vote against the motion for a resolution because i do not think it is a good idea to vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − with the continuous increase in natural disasters in recent years, european citizens are understandably demanding optimum protection against disasters. the report calls on the commission to present without delay a proposal for an eu disaster management system, which should include a more efficient eu disaster management cycle, a 24-hour emergency response centre.
in writing. - the control of goods, technology and related services which can be used for civilian and military purposes, which has been in place for 15 years, is particularly important with regard to weapons of mass destruction. they must also comply with the commitments made by the member states at multilateral level. and sanctions should be imposed on the illicit trafficking of dual-use goods in connection with a weapons of mass destruction programme. a database of refused export licences would probably facilitate controls. in the light of the experience gained with sis i and sis ii, expectations in this respect should not be too high. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one.
in writing. - dual-use goods are goods or services which can be used for both military and civilian purposes. the european union has a duty to act with caution, particularly in the face of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. in fact, a common database could facilitate the control of exports. however, the competence to sanction infringements of export bans should remain with the member state concerned. i reject a central sanction from brussels on the grounds of subsidiarity. i therefore voted against the report by mr leichtfried.
in writing. − tourism is not only an important economic activity in the eu, but also a means of improving its image. at eu level, some initiatives have been taken in the field of tourism, such as improving passenger rights and making the cost of airline bookings more transparent to the traveller. in addition, quality labels, for example for environmental protection or quality tourism, have been created and some tourism projects have been promoted. in any case, it is clear that today's traveller is increasingly relying on new technologies and that a professional internet presence is essential in the tourism sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has not provided any clarification, particularly as regards tourist visas and their misuse, and as regards data protection in relation to the data collection discussed in the intra-european area. i therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − the good figures for the tourism sector show that despite the difficult economic situation, tourism is a major industry in the eu. in view of the fact that tourism contributes to human enrichment, exchange, well-being, well-being, culture and social cohesion, i believe that a quality-oriented approach must be the main focus. europe's success as a tourist destination is based in large part on the incredible diversity our continent has to offer. i therefore do not see why we need a uniform eu seal. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's tourism sector. the report presented states that tourism must not be at the expense of the environment. i call on the commission, particularly in coastal areas, to promote better planning and to focus on environmentally friendly means of transport. the measures proposed by the commission are in my view in part inadequate (eu seal) and in part still insufficient, and i therefore rejected the report. i also expect that the measures planned by the commission in the context of the tourism strategy will aim to reduce undeclared work and rural migration and to create jobs that are less vulnerable to seasonal fluctuations.
in writing. − the tourism sector as the third largest socioeconomic sector in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment is crucial to the growth and development objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission's new four-pillar model aims to strengthen the sustainable growth of the sector and includes important measures to protect the environment or preserve cultural heritage. the training of employees is also a priority, and programmes such as 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' must be better known. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − although progress has been made in recent years in europe in road safety, the target of halving the number of road deaths per year has not been met. a number of measures are being taken to achieve the objective. however, these remain rather vague and it is doubtful whether they will reduce the number of road deaths to the desired extent. it is also important to obtain more comparable data on the causes of injuries and accidents in order to achieve the desired level of coordination between member states. we should also be aware of the role of lorries in serious road accidents, which are becoming more dangerous in the face of increasingly competitive pressures, and of the fact that scrap vehicles are still on the roads of europe. of course, it would be desirable if the population regularly attended first aid courses. but such a visit cannot be imposed on road users. that is why i voted no.
in writing. the majority of the european road network is designed to be of the truck size typical today. however, the commission is in favour of the so-called 'gigaliners'. gigaliner are up to 25 metres long and weigh up to 60 tonnes. these giants obscure the view of motorists, and overtaking distances on long-distance roads increase dramatically. furthermore, significantly higher damage is expected in both man and machine if a collision occurs. the eu's target of halving road fatalities by 2020 is therefore far from being achieved. care should be taken to ban these 'gigaliners' from road traffic. i have voted against the report because it does not deal with this danger.
in writing. − the measures proposed in the report, some of which have already been detailed, are comprehensible, proportionate and necessary. although the number of road deaths has been declining for years, there is still work to be done. i agreed to it.
in writing. - the report makes some reasonable points. i support the call for financial compensation for those who have to be relocated because of dam projects and welcome the reference to the need for impact assessments in the construction of dams. these can have a massive impact on the countries bordering them and cause considerable damage to the environment. i am not aware of any reference to the misappropriation of aid money allocated for the construction of dams. according to estimates by transparency international (tpi), 70 percent of the flood authority budget in pakistan has been misappropriated. we must go the other way and not continue with the old practice of helping. furthermore, the report contains inappropriate links with climate policy objectives which cannot be justified in the context of funding for dam reinforcement in developing countries. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. the massive flooding disasters of recent years have claimed countless lives and caused billions in property damage. the report takes up the recommendations of the united nations and draws on the findings of the world commission on dams, which recommends implementing fewer new projects, optimising existing dams, tackling the root causes of problems rather than moderately successfully tackling the symptoms and further undermining the eu's millennium development goals, the achievement of which is already highly questionable. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the continuing increase in global food insecurity poses new challenges to the mdgs and requires a review of eu strategies in development cooperation. a new communication on food safety was adopted by the eu commission in march 2010. the main points are: increasing the food supply by supporting small-scale food production, optimising food access and ensuring a balanced diet. once again, a report by the european parliament points to the volatility of prices and the serious effects of speculation in derivatives of essential food commodities. i agreed to it.
in writing. the motion for a resolution refers to the inclusion of unilateral declarations by member states in the minutes of council meetings. the european parliament's transition and over-riding are particularly worrisome. the measures called for in the resolution are simply unnecessary. the report rightly refers in its recitals to the court's assessment of the statements. it denies them any legal force. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. i therefore believe that the member states can continue to include their statements in the minutes of the council meetings. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - in principle, acts should be self-explanatory. the interpretation is also usually based on the operative part or the recitals. parliament, as the only directly elected eu body, should be informed of unilateral declarations by member states at all stages of the legislative process. i am, however, opposed to the unilateral declarations of the member states being accepted as additional grounds for interpretation. the lawyer has the right to be informed of the contributions and concerns of the member states, even if these are only marginal. i also see no reason why these statements should not be published in the official journal of the european union. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − i support the report on a new trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy as it identifies important areas for a sustainable and competitive europe. the rapporteur has provided a balanced and concise approach to a review of the eu's trade strategy, which the commission should take to heart. the commitments to a multilateral trading system, the removal of trade barriers and the integration of sustainability chapters in bilateral trade agreements are a clear guideline.
in writing. − the eu has set out a number of strategies with a variety of objectives, which it has largely failed to achieve. in this context, it may be useful to first evaluate the old strategies and to find out why they were not achieved and why some strategies exist only on paper. at eu level, when we talk about strengthening global competitiveness, we often only refer to large companies and multinational groups. the motor of the economy and the main employer, however, is the large number of small and mediumsized enterprises, whose importance is always emphasized in the various strategies on paper, but which in practice have little access to subsidies and are burdened with ever-increasing bureaucracy. as the present report does not deal at all with the role of smes, i did not agree.
in writing. − in times of globalisation and emerging markets such as china, there is a greater need than ever to improve the eu's competitiveness and economic standing. in this context, there are a number of issues which are not adequately addressed in this report, although they are key elements of sustainable competitiveness in the eu: firstly, the interests and problems of smes, which form the backbone of our economy, are not being taken into account enough: i am thinking in particular of the access of smes to finance for international trade, to enable them to internationalise and thereby to promote their innovative capacity. this brings me to another point: european companies (and smes in particular) still have great difficulty in enforcing their intellectual property rights in third countries, especially in asia. we must urgently act against barriers to trade from third countries, both tariff and non-tariff. the eu imposes strict competition rules on itself, but at the same time we must also combat unfair state aid to domestic production in third countries. otherwise, our companies will soon be left behind. i have not voted for the report because these points have not been taken into account.
in writing. − the 2007 evaluation of the eu strategy for a globally competitive europe shows that many of the objectives set have not been achieved. the eu's share of global value added is declining, losing further to new entrants in the world market such as china or india. the 36 million jobs in the eu that depend on external trade require analyses and policies that respond to the needs of the union and its citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the eurogroup! the european greens and the greens in my home country of austria are clearly on your side when it comes to the community method, when it comes to the creation and strengthening of a european economic government, even when it comes to the european stability mechanism, which is necessary to prevent speculation, to protect against crises and to involve private creditors and banks. the esm, however, requires a small amendment to the treaty, ratification by the parliaments of all the member states and a two-thirds majority in my own country. the austrian greens are the only opposition party in austria that wants to vote in favour of this, but only if the esm is improved. because right now, he's only half a thing! that's why there's a junktim. the austrian greens in the national council have informed the austrian government and you in a letter that we will only give our consent if there is an orderly procedure for debt relief and restructuring, if there are credible steps for the financial transaction tax and the introduction of eurobonds. mr president of the eurogroup, are you prepared to use these demands, this junket of the austrian greens in relation to the improvement of the esm, as support for your efforts to use precisely these things?
i have to say, madam president, there's been a lot of talk about organizations, about terrorism and other things. but in this house we should also think sometimes of the people who are affected by political decisions. i'd like to borrow some literature for this one. i don't know how many of you have read amos oz's book, a tale of love and darkness. in this book, amos oz describes a scene from 1947 that touched me deeply. it was the vote at the united nations in november 1947, and all the citizens of israel heard on the radio - there was no television then - how this decision was made. and he describes when the decision was made and there was a majority of votes for israel the rejoicing throughout israel. and amos oz then corrects and writes: not really in all of israel, but in the jewish part of israel. what about the others? the year 1947 has already been mentioned here. i keep asking: how can anyone say that in 1947 the state of israel was founded - thank god - and we still do not have a state of palestine today, although the decision was to establish two states? is there anyone in this house who does not share the joy of the palestinians that the israelis rightly felt in 1947? i still don't understand it to this day. this is not propaganda, this is not about terrorism, this is about people. sometimes people ask, what do they have from the state? the jews in the state of israel at the time, who cheerfully noted this decision, had a lot of this decision of the united nations. i would like to say to you, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, that i would like the palestinians to experience the joy of a state, after many decades of struggle and conflict, as soon as possible. the palestinians also have the right to a state of their own, just as the jews have the right to the state of israel. that's what we're supposed to be doing together. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are two areas. on the one hand, it is a matter of a common foreign policy of the member states of the european union, represented by cathy ashton, and thus of creating the conditions for us to have an influence on developments outside our continent. i am therefore very pleased that there seems to be a common position of all the eu countries at the un, and i am also very pleased that a common resolution has been reached in parliament. on the other hand, it is about peace in the middle east - not just there, but we are talking about it today. i am one of a group of politicians and diplomats who have written a letter to the austrian federal government containing the following key elements: yes to the two-state solution, the 1967 borders are the basis for the palestinian territory, jerusalem should be the capital of both states, the aim is full membership of palestine in the united nations. we welcome the quartet's interim, vatican situation and schedule. the european union must now make nails out of heads, prevent escalation, end settlement policy and prevent violence.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not thank you, madam high representative, for your commitment to the eastern partnership and thank you also for the words of praise for mr füle. he has really earned the praise for his massive commitment not only to the eastern partnership as such but also to the necessary democratic development in the individual countries. let me say right from the start: the eastern partnership is not about an alliance against russia. it is an alliance for the eastern partnership countries, for their free choice of where they want to go and how they want to work with europe in the sense of the european union and with russia and others. this is particularly true of ukraine. ukraine is an important partner for us and we know that - we wish the polish presidency every success at this conference - this is of course also linked to the situation in ukraine. the ukrainian people are right to ask: how did this gas price agreement with russia come about? why has russia suddenly gone from being an enemy of tymoshenko to being a friend of tymoshenko, and why has russia suddenly defended tymoshenko? what i do know is that the price agreed there is not a very favourable price for the ukrainian people, but it can certainly be seen as a negative price. but there is a very clear position, including that of my group: these questions must be dealt with politically and not by criminal courts. we therefore make a clear appeal to ukraine, the ukrainian government and the president to find a way out of the present situation. a conviction of tymoshenko on this basis i think that by the time that colleague brok mentioned, stalin was already dead, so that cannot be entirely true... (interruption by elmar brok) in 1957, you said, but it doesn't matter, anyway, stalin was dead by then. but whatever the legal situation, it is not acceptable to pursue political objectives through the courts. i therefore hope that together - the high representative, the commission and this parliament too - we can make it clear that we want ukraine to be as close as possible to the european union. but we want a democratic ukraine, a ukraine that pursues political goals politically, and i hope that ukraine also understands this and that the ukrainian leaders also take this path.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our aim of assisting the six former soviet republics in political and economic reform is no doubt met with a rather hostile reaction from russia. we know that. finally, the countries included in the eastern partnership are also considered as potential candidates for eu accession. while the proposed free trade agreement with ukraine will probably ultimately depend on whether ms tymoshenko receives a fair and rule-of-law trial, negotiations with belarus are on hold. we know that, too. the eu's perspective alone is not enough to bring about democracy, human rights and internal peace, as the example of turkey shows, and as the last dictator of europe, lukashenko, shows once again. he does release regime opponents every time he needs europe. the recently announced release of political prisoners is probably related to the immense financial need that even the chinese billion-dollar loan could not satisfy. but lukashenko still rejects democratic reforms, which are a condition for western financial aid, and this is an important criterion for us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i should like to thank vice-president ashton for her support for lgbt issues. we already knew from other cases that you are very strong on that and support us on that. i also agree with those who have already said that the resolution at the human rights council really was a turning point for lgbt rights worldwide, with countries like brazil and south africa and others in southern countries supporting it. this is something that we have not had that many times before, and it was the first time at the human rights council. it is a fact that this parliament has been very outspoken on lgbt rights, not only on the very tragic assassination of david kato just recently, but also on the cases of so many others who are not so prominent in their struggle: human rights defenders who are assassinated, who are beaten up and tortured, who are ousted from their families, from their schools, just because they fall in love with a person of the same sex. love is like a human right: every one of us is happy when we have it, and when we have it in our lives. as a lesbian woman myself who has been fighting for these issues for almost 30 years and met so many people who have been active in very difficult situations, i am happy that we have this resolution today in order to support and push the external action service, the foreign minister of the european union, member states in terms of internal matters, and all other eu institutions to press ahead with doing away with violations of human rights against lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender people. i would like to ask lady ashton two specific questions. do you support what we have in this resolution by six groups (which i very strongly appreciate) a comprehensive road map against homo- and transphobia by the european union? and do you support the commission helping to withdraw gender identity from the who catalogue of mental disorders? because that is what is at stake at the who.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we in the socialist group want a strong role for turkey, particularly in the eastern mediterranean region. we want turkey as a partner. but a partner must also behave in a partnership. what we're seeing now is not a partnership. we were very pleased when foreign minister ahmet davutoğlu said that turkey wanted to pursue a policy without conflicts with its neighbours. but at the moment, when i think of israel and cyprus, i think of turkey's conflicts with its neighbours. this is not acceptable to us. turkey must accept that cyprus is a member of the european union to which we offer our full solidarity. if turkey, on the one hand, is now trying to put pressure on cyprus with its warships, if - and this is true - there is political consensus - if turkey says: 'we will not talk to cyprus when cyprus holds the presidency of the european union', then this is unacceptable to us. it is a policy which is directed not only against the greek cypriot population but also against the turkish cypriot population, because it is a policy which makes it increasingly difficult to reach an agreement on cyprus itself. but we want the unity of the island and the country and the people. we want cooperation between the two parts of cyprus and we are in favour of negotiations. but for that we also need a turkey that is willing and cooperative. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we stand in full solidarity with our colleagues in cyprus and with the people of cyprus. cyprus is doing the right thing. i call on turkey to respect the fact that cyprus is an independent member of our european union and that it receives our full solidarity here.
madam president, the republic of cyprus is an independent state, and a member of the eu and the un, and therefore has the right to independently determine its interests, alone or in cooperation with other countries in accordance with international laws. cyprus has signed and ratified the un convention on the law of the sea, just like 161 other countries. therefore, the offshore oil and gas drilling in cyprus’s own exclusive economic zone and its continental shelf are within the law. turkey has to accept that it has to comply with international laws. we, the eu, have to stand up and speak clearly with one voice, and under no circumstances can we tolerate any further violation of eu borders. what do we have international laws and un conventions for if they are not respected?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr president of the commission, you have made it very clear today that you are not an honest broker, you are the head of the european government. its commission is the economic government. we therefore reject any double structure. we should now work to end the cacophony and make the president of the commission also president of the heads of state or government of the 17 and olli rehn president of the eurozone until a treaty amendment is tabled. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. make it clear that you need a budget that empowers the european commission to act! thanks for the own funds! thanks for the transaction tax. more determination, ambition and enthusiasm will bring the youth on board and make the future our friend.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president barroso, you have spoken today - and i am joining my colleague mr leinen in - of a renaissance. renaissance is rebirth. and if we are going to reproduce something, we should also know in what environment this new project is being born. we have only one area in europe where we have the fullest support for this european project, and that is the european peace project. the way in which politics is being conducted at the moment is putting this project and this trust at risk. we have often heard the criticism today that the flame of europe is only really burning in this chamber and that there is a lot of child-waste, if we think of the council and the individual member states. this means that it will be our joint task - that of the members of parliament, your task as president and, above all, the task of the presidency of the council - to help ensure that this renaissance takes place in an environment where the public has confidence. we shall not have that confidence if we push this european union not only towards economic and monetary union but also towards social union. i miss that in the six-pack, too. there is no guarantee that this is a sustainable economy, that there are opportunities for the future. the future of europe will only exist if people go with us into the future.
mr president, i would like to say to mr barroso that none of us actually knows the outcome of the current greek crisis, although everyone is worried about the future of the euro and some even about the union. to get out of this crisis we have to help and support europe’s people first. it is of utmost importance to invest in education to boost the job market and to reduce the unemployment rate in europe, especially among young people. concerning the eu’s finances, we have to first ask the respective agents to take their responsibility. one thing has to be clearly understood, namely that member states’ overspending must end since the consequences are taken out on our taxpayers. finally, i would like to thank him very much for today’s speech but ask him to go ahead and do the work now.
in writing. - the continuing flows of asylum seekers, especially those from north africa, are causing a real explosion in the cost of asylum. the majority of member states are not even able to give a satisfactory estimate of the actual costs involved. the planned redistribution of unused payment appropriations means that the eu budget is actually less reimbursed to the member states. it is unacceptable that member states should be putting the red pen in the social benefits for their own citizens, while at eu level commitments for migration and refugee flows are to be increased, while savings are to be made in crime prevention and combating, all this via funds to be reallocated at the expense of the recovery programme for energy networks. i reject this project.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35 000 and 50 000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. the request was made for eur 4 347 868 for germany, as a total of 778 redundancies from five companies have to be addressed. i voted for the report because the fund is designed for such cases and it makes sense to use it to support the economy.
in writing. − following the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu and their customs union, adjustments were to be made in accordance with wto rules. the agreement with argentina covers common wheat, barley, malting barley and maize, for which an increase in the tariff quota has been fixed - without any fear of prejudice to the eu's agricultural interests. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − following the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu and their customs union, adjustments were to be made in accordance with wto rules. the agreement with australia covers sheepmeat and goatmeat. the commission is not concerned that the eu's agricultural interests will be affected. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − following the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu and their customs union, adjustments were to be made in accordance with wto rules. the extension of the tariff quota for new zealand concerns high quality sheepmeat, goatmeat and beef. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the report on the strengthening of fiscal surveillance and economic policy coordination addresses the need for coordination of member states' economic policies through stability and convergence programmes, continuous evaluation, complemented by strict monitoring measures and an effective enforcement mechanism, while strengthening national ownership. the aim is to ensure sustainable growth by coherently linking related policies and subjecting financial markets to increased regulation and supervision. the involvement of national parliaments and the european parliament throughout the coordination process ensures democratic legitimacy and transparency (the stability and convergence programmes are published). i agreed to it.
in writing. − together with the report on the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure, the report on budgetary surveillance adds several essential requirements to the legislative package on economic governance in the euro area. the stability and growth pact provides that the adjustment to and compliance with the medium-term budgetary objective can be ensured by the introduction of an interest-bearing deposit temporarily extended to euro area countries that have not achieved sufficient budgetary consolidation. as the case of greece shows, the falsification of financial statistics by one country can have disastrous consequences for the whole of the european union, and it is therefore vital to improve without delay both the collection of statistical data and the verification of the data submitted, as well as to introduce serious penalties for the member states responsible. the report on budgetary surveillance in the euro area provides for the establishment of precisely this type of sanction against member states, namely for falsifying statistical data or for submitting incorrect data as a result of serious negligence. the penalty would be up to 0,2% of national gdp. although sceptical about the requirement for the commission to prepare proposals for the creation of eurobonds, it nevertheless considers the adoption of the above requirements to be useful.
in writing. - i am in favour of a substantial strengthening of the stability and growth pact in the euro area. compliance with such obligations can only be achieved through the effective enforcement of severe penalties. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and to present their opinions on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 in the form of a report to the european parliament and the council. the lessons of the stability and growth pact will be learned by punishing manipulation of statistics with fines of a certain magnitude.
in writing. − the current experience of economic and monetary union shows that the primary tasks of european countries, especially those in the euro area, include improving economic governance, putting in place an effective system to prevent excessive government deficits, and strengthening financial market regulation and surveillance. the european parliament's report provides for the introduction of a specific alert mechanism to detect risks of macroeconomic imbalances in the union in good time. the warning mechanism would be based on regular assessments of the financial and macroeconomic situation of the member states by the commission. this will include the development of a set of specific, indicative and transparent indicators, developed jointly by the european parliament, the council and the commission, covering both nominal and real convergence, as well as internal and external imbalances between countries, changes in productivity and its drivers, such as research and development, foreign/domestic investment, and changes in sectors, including energy, affecting gdp and the current account. the indicators should also be reviewed and updated at least annually in order to avoid a situation like that in ireland, where the approach of the crisis was not detected in time due to outdated indicators. if a member state is found to have macroeconomic imbalances, it would be advised to implement them within a set timeframe, involving stakeholders, including the social partners, where appropriate.
in writing. - the ten-year anniversary of economic and monetary union has already revealed increasing divergences between member states, which were already evident before the crisis. the correction system for these imbalances is intended to prevent europe from falling into the extreme situation that we have been in since 2008.
in writing. − an improved economic governance system in the eu must be based on mutually agreed policies for sustainable growth and employment, based on the core principles of the stability and growth pact. particular attention should be paid to the development of the internal market, the promotion of international trade and competitiveness, the effective regulation of national budgets, the prevention of macroeconomic fluctuations, and more effective supervision and regulation of financial markets. to achieve this, it is first necessary to adopt specific requirements for national budgets, together with sanctions for long-term non-compliance with these requirements. the report sets out the requirements for the member state to meet in the event of an inadequate budgetary system or a budget deficit in excess within a period of at least six months. in the event of a particularly critical situation, the member state may be required to take action within three months in order to reduce the budget deficit within a year. to ensure the necessary discipline among the euro area member states, it has been agreed to give the commission a stronger supervisory role, which will in future not only assess the economic situation in the member states but also undertake special monitoring missions to them, accompanied by the european central bank if necessary. penalties are also provided for a fine of up to 0,5% of the national gdp that would be paid into the budget of the european financial stability facility. these are all essential steps towards a coherent monetary policy, without which there can be no single currency union.
in writing. − the long-term sustainability of public finances is central to preventing a situation like the one we have today in the future. the decision that a member state is in an excessive deficit shall be taken by the council taking into account developments in the medium-term economic situation, including contributions from labour, capital formation and the productivity factor, developments in the medium-term budgetary position and developments in the medium-term government debt, and the dynamics and sustainability of the latter . the implementation of pension reforms will also be adequately taken into account in the assessment of compliance with the deficit and debt criterion in view of future challenges, which is a proactive measure. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the eurozone crisis and the current difficulties are largely due not only to the lack of a single monetary policy but also to an inaccurate and easily falsifiable system of producing and compiling statistics. i would therefore like to support the report on the proposal for a council directive on the requirements for the budgetary authorities of the member states, which applies to all eu member states and which focuses specifically on the provision of sound public accounting practices and quality statistics, as well as on independent auditing of national budgetary matters, which are fundamental components of the eu's fiscal surveillance system and its effective functioning. the council has encouraged the member states, both for their own needs and in the interests of the european union, to draw up and make publicly available tables containing, as far as possible, precise data on the compliance of this directive and the transposition measures. based on the recommendations of the commission and the council, the report contains all the elements essential for the overall transparency and evaluation of the financial and budgetary structures of government, which will be reflected in the commission's annual evaluations and progress reports.
in writing. − the experience and lessons learned from the crisis should be used to adapt and improve the provisions of the stability and growth pact and to make the necessary additions to the provisions on national fiscal frameworks. the directive on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states contains provisions on the transparency of budgetary data and on the planning and monitoring of medium-term objectives. i agreed to it.
in writing. - i voted against the reports by mr wortmann-kool (a7-0178/2011), mr goulard (a7-0180/2011), mr feio (a7-0179/2011) and mr ford (a7-0184/2011), as they do not represent a balanced package of economic governance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained, and that the budgetary authority is able to take action to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. the package is socially unbalanced. it is yielding to the pressure of the financial markets and leaving the costs of the crisis to the citizens. there is a lack of democratic control over the most important economic policy decisions. in months of negotiations, our group has pushed for a compromise, but the conservative majority in the council and parliament has refused to budge a finger from its rigid austerity policy, even as it became increasingly clear that this approach was continually pushing europe further towards a 'double dip recession'. the s&d group has identified a clear alternative the exact wording can be found in the paper a just way out of the crisis (http://www.socialistsanddemocrats.eu/gpes/media3/documents/3574_de_fair_way_out_crisis_de_100908.pdf).
in writing. - the tightening of the stability pact is countering the worst of the ills by 'automating' the deficit procedures. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. however, this reform has not solved the current debt crisis in greece and portugal. both countries are unable to operate them and are therefore insolvent. the stability pact will not prevent a transfer union in the future. in the case of asymmetric shocks, the necessary exchange rate variance is the only criterion to be used for the formation of a monetary union. otherwise, a fiscal transfer union will be necessary. the only way to prevent a transfer union without democratic legitimacy is to split the monetary area into a hard and soft currency union. the effects of political wishful thinking and daydreaming in these centralistic measures can be studied in the context of the unrest in the southern member states. the european commission's reference to the observation of 'imbalances' is ineffective. in the worst case, competitiveness is penalized by 'too high' current account surpluses. in the positive scenarios, proposals to moderate wage increases resulting from incentive distortions in a misconstrued monetary area will be blown up. the political freedoms of the member states must under no circumstances be called into question. i therefore voted against this report and the other reports of the so-called six-pack which are related to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have discussed the situation in the union this morning and the terms 'trust', 'credible' and 'solidarity' have been used again and again. how cynical it must seem to the europeans that we now simply say, because the legal situation seems to be unresolved: go on starving until this is resolved. if we want to give life to what we have said this morning, to the renaissance, to the belief in the european union, then there must be no hesitation here. there may be other legal solutions, but those are for the future. for the present, we need the distribution of food to those in need. we need people's trust, and people need something to eat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the paper we have is a very balanced one. but i would also like to express my disappointment that we are obviously having a nuclear debate here. with or without nuclear power, that is not the problem the world suffers from. so let's address the real issues and not debate whether we need nuclear power or not. a real problem is water. we have 70% of water on earth - it's called the blue planet - but only 3% of it is effectively available as fresh water. to put it in a figure of speech, this part of the parliament here would be the land mass, the rest of the parliament here would be the oceans, but only one row of seats up here is really the fresh water for which there is competition. it is a fact that already today one billion people are without water. it is also a fact that water consumption is increasing at twice the rate of the world's population. this is one of the great challenges we face. above all, remember that today's water needs are mainly met by fossil resources. this means that if these reserves are not replenished, they are lost. to give you an example: in beijing, for example, the water level is dropping by half a meter a day. i think that really shows how much pressure is on this reserve. we must have real answers here, and those answers must be both supply and demand. on the demand side, agriculture is certainly in high demand. it currently uses about 93% of the world's available water, but 50% of that available water is simply lost through pipes, through channels, through evaporation. we must start with modern technology. the same goes for daily consumption: it would be sustainable to use about 25 litres of water a day, as is used in south africa, for example, whereas in europe we use about ten times that amount. that is why we should also consider what we can do here. but we are also in demand on the supply side, which means that we have to think about how we can make water available through modern technologies. let us work together on this, and please let us focus on the real issues and not on the nuclear question, yes or no.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the un conference on sustainable development in rio in june 2012 is part of a historic series of conferences on the environment and sustainability. each conference had defined new objectives in the light of sustainable development. a lot has already been achieved. but our efforts must continue. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european year of the environment. it is necessary to ensure that environmental resources and economic development go hand in hand, especially in developing and emerging countries. secondly, the institutional framework for sustainable development. the means must be found to make sustainable development a reality.
the commission has already done so. the european globalisation adjustment fund this is money from europe for the people affected. the european union is made visible in the member states by this aid. it is becoming apparent that funds are being used to provide financial support to victims of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis. in this respect, all the commission's proposals to speed up the procedure should be fully supported. finally, given that this is a firefighting operation, the duration of the procedure is particularly long - up to one and a half years - far too long! i would now like to turn to a point of particular concern to me, which concerns the future development of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the commission's consideration of opening up the fund to farmers in hinkunft is a thematic error. and in so doing they would clearly be taking money directly from workers affected by restructuring and the crisis. there would be a shift. i would therefore like to have made this point here, because the next financial framework will be coming very soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the egf is a useful and efficient instrument in its basic structure. it provides direct support to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation. solidarity is a sure thing. the egf, however, has clear shortcomings in its present form. it relieves companies of their social obligation and responsibility. the daily implementation of the fund shows that companies include it as a social add-on in their calculation, because these funds are borne exclusively by european taxpayers. but we must create a social balance and justice for the european taxpayer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds are used in a proper manner. in conclusion, if we were to make payments in the agricultural sector now, the egf would really be pursuing its aim and purpose.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank mrs berès for this excellent report. i am not a member of the employment committee, but the comments made today by the ecr have made me want to come forward. i think this is the wrong time to start a debate about envy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it would be very important to note that redistributed money is not money given away or lost, but that redistributed money helps people who have lost their jobs due to globalization - i'm talking about people from the freight sector, suppliers, for example, we have over 3,000 job losers in austria - now hopefully can use the globalization fund. this money creates value. this money creates purchasing power. this money makes it possible for those companies that put the money into these funds as taxpayers to have customers again. i would therefore ask that this globalisation fund be seen as a driving force of the economy and not just as something to be distributed in the form of a charity policy in europe. and whoever helps quickly helps twice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a problem in this house at catch the eye. the problem with all those in the back is that they don't know if they're being noticed in the front when they point. i, for example, already took the floor at the beginning of the debate, and i noted the nod of the charming lady in the front, but i am not on the speakers' list now. that means if you're unlucky enough to be in the back of the line because of the alphabet, you're not going to be noticed for catch the eye. this is not the first time this has happened, but it has happened again and again. i'm trying to find another mode here so that those who have to sit further back because of the alphabet can also be noticed. unfortunately, it doesn't work perfectly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you said that you respected the resolution of parliament. this is true of the x-ray question and the question of airport obligations for use on individuals. but now i come to the weaknesses of comitology. as regards the blurred nude images we have discussed and which we clearly wanted to exclude, you have demanded that these slightly blurred images should also be acceptable for reasons of competition or to safeguard competition. i ask myself and i ask you: who is dictating in europe? is it the question of competition that takes precedence, or is it the question of privacy that takes precedence? who's dictating here? who is to be favoured here, so that parliament's resolution is not clearly followed? normally, when it comes to technical matters, it's always best to follow the best available technology and not give the dinosaurs on the market who didn't want to move the right to go on forever. the reliability of the equipment is in question and i have to ask myself whether a completely wrong decision has not been made in this area.
in writing. − the globalisation fund, established in 2006, is designed to co-finance active labour measures for workers made unemployed by structural changes in the world trade pattern. in the context of the financial and economic crisis, the fund's scope was extended in 2008 to allow it to be used as an instrument for early and effective crisis management. an interim review now showed that without the temporary derogation, most of the crisis-related applications could not have been submitted by the member states. while the economy is expected to recover slightly in 2011, the labour market situation remains problematic. in order to reduce the burden on member states' public budgets, the increased co-financing rate of 65% of the egf is to be extended. this measure is to be welcomed. i voted for the extension.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund, now extended in 2009, is designed to support workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the 2009 amendment also changed two of the criteria: the requirement of a certain number of redundancies was reduced from 1000 to 500 and the co-financing rate was increased from 50% to 65%. this amendment renews an unconditional renewal without addressing any substantive issues or shortcomings. i therefore did not agree.
in writing. - after two decades of unsuccessful peace efforts, the attempt by palestinian president abbas to seek recognition and membership of the community of states at the un is understandable. the postponement of the talks on the motion in the security council now gives the quartet, and in particular the two parties to the conflict, the opportunity to begin serious negotiations for a rapid solution to the middle east conflict. only a clear outcome that gives us a secure israel and a viable palestinian state is acceptable in the end. another delay is intolerable. the palestinians will also likely view an upgraded observer status at the un as a defeat, which could lead to undesirable reactions. the eu, as a major donor in the region, has therefore a duty to intervene on both sides, not least to avoid mutual provocations in this situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. only by acting together can the eu achieve its desired position as a major foreign policy player. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is very balanced.
in writing. the resolution takes account of the situation of both sides in the context of a two-state solution: it recognises israel's legitimate security concerns, but also the need for a viable palestinian state. this is precisely the direction the eu's foreign policy efforts should now take. the postponement of the debate on the motion at the un security council creates a space which the eu should use to advance the middle east peace process with a strong voice. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − due to climate change and its catastrophic effects, sustainable use of natural resources is essential. a partnership between developed and developing countries is of central importance if we are to achieve our objectives. many countries today are where europe was long ago in terms of the use of minerals and natural resources, and it would be irresponsible to deny developing countries our present advanced technology in the extraction of these resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the oil spills.
in writing. − the current derogation from the european globalisation adjustment fund is due to expire in december 2011. the european parliament calls for substantive changes to be made to the legislation in order to draw the necessary lessons from the experience gained and to adapt it accordingly. the main weakness of the current system is the lack of differentiation between the applicant holdings. it is necessary to ensure that egf resources are not misused to finance the restructuring of companies with net profits to low-wage countries. these companies must not be able to evade their social responsibility at the expense of the taxpayer and must be held financially responsible for the re-employment measures. i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it contains these demands.
in writing. − on 28 february 2011, the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco expired. now this is to be brought to a continuation. for years, eu fishing boats have been operating off the coast of western sahara, to which the new agreement is to be extended, something which has been clearly excluded until now. according to an opinion of the legal service of the european parliament published in 2010, fishing activities off the coast of western sahara are illegal, in particular because of the status of western sahara as a territory without self-government within the meaning of article 73 of the un charter. the report did not receive my vote because the moroccan government, in defiance of numerous un security council resolutions and an opinion of the international court of justice, considers western sahara to be its territory, but it has no sovereign rights over it. the eu would therefore confirm morocco's illegal territorial claims by this extended agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution requesting an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, because i consider this request necessary for the final clarification of the question. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. parliament expressed concern that the new fisheries protocol would undermine international law by exploiting the natural resources of the non-self-governing territory of western sahara. i believe that the european court of justice could provide legal certainty in this area and that there is a possibility that the western sahara question could be brought one step closer to a solution. the adoption of the resolution also gives the fisheries committee the freedom to deal with issues closely linked to the agreement, such as economic, environmental or development policy aspects. it's important to me that this unresolved question finally finds a solution.
in writing. - since the end of spanish colonial rule, the kingdom of morocco has claimed the territories of western sahara, and this has been the subject of several human rights debates in the plenary. following the expiry of the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement in february 2011, a new protocol was signed on 13 july 2011. the parliament's legal service recommended in 2009 that the fisheries agreement be subject to a legal review, as the scope of the agreement also includes the waters of western sahara. i have therefore agreed to obtain such an opinion from the court of justice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it depends on what kind of proposal it is. i would suggest that we do vote in strasbourg, as is planned. but perhaps you could make a brief statement tomorrow before the vote expressing our concern about what has happened to the copts so that we can combine that with a clear statement from you and with a resolution at the next strasbourg meeting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, as one journalist has written, we are faced not only with a crisis of the european union but also with a crisis of crisis management, or, one should almost say, of crisis management. this is a crucial problem. every time there is a summit, or at least a summit between sarkozy and merkel, it is said that the markets will now calm down. when we decided on the six-pack here, it was hot, but now the markets will be calm. nothing happened to you. without economic growth, we will not be able to get out of the crisis. mr president of the commission, you have made proposals today. that's good! we'll look into it. i hope that it will go beyond what some of the conservative and liberal prime ministers have recently proposed. we are very much in favour of completing the internal market, but that alone will not bring the necessary growth in the european union together. we need a suitable concept. let me say something else seriously. mr daul is now talking to his colleague, and that is his right. mr daul spoke of bratislava. what is the situation in europe? there is a government being formed, deliberately with coalition partners who think and act in an anti-european way, and then when a crisis comes, the social democrats have to come and lead the government out of the crisis. that is exactly what it is, mr ferber. the situation in the netherlands is exactly the same. now a new government is coming into being in latvia, where exactly the same thing is happening, because the conservatives there are saying that we would rather go along with the extreme right-wingers who think anti-european than perhaps even go along with those russian-born voters who are not recognized as real latvians by this new party or the new coalition party. so it is not just a question of a common europe, mr verhofstadt and mr daul, but also that we finally have governments at national level which think in a european way, and not governments which are just trying to come to power and fail to act in a european way, and then the social democrats have to go. this is not a real concept for europe. we need both. we need a strong european union. but we need national governments that also think european. that's important too! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am of course supporting the polish government, which is not allied with the extremists but has a clear pro-european stance. as regards the question from mrs flašíková beňová: i have information that smer has made a very clear statement that it will support the package and the bailout, and that, thank god, and i would like to emphasize this now a party that has made it clear from mr dzurinda that they want to act together. that is what we want in europe, not the party of the president of parliament, which still seems to be taking refuge with the liberals. we must finally say clearly, not only in this parliament but also to our party friends: we are for this common europe and this common european policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm glad the summit was cancelled, because we don't need summits for summits' sake. we need summits when they are well prepared, when the decisions are mature and when the consequences can be drawn. we also need a timetable for each summit outcome, by when the outcomes are to be implemented and implemented, otherwise they will create uncertainty rather than stability. secondly, i am very grateful to the president of the commission for his speech, because it continues the speech on the state of europe and makes it operational. we need all the political instruments that are part of a monetary union and the internal market at community level. we need a road map for when and by what means we can achieve economic and social union. the european stability pact and the efsf must be of the same size as monetary union. the unanimity is being renationalized, blocked, inefficient and undemocratic. no european action without the participation of the european parliament and a majority! yes, i also say that the haircut that is necessary is not a solution as an isolated measure. we need a package of measures, including haircuts, recapitalisation, an increase in the efsf, administrative reform, investment, growth and employment and control. the european union itself must check that eu rules are being respected in all member states. in greece and in all other countries, we must accompany every demand and take over the management as a support, for example through a privatisation agency. the commission is the economic government, and democratic control is guaranteed by parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am curious to see how the banking issue will be discussed at the next summit. just strengthening the banks, as barroso's cure is obviously going to do, is not going to be enough. now that the stock market value of the franco-belgian bank dexia has been halved in a matter of days, it must finally become clear that our approaches to solving the banking crisis do not work that way. dexia was rated as 'excellent' in the eu's banking stress tests in july this year. so it becomes clear that billions in bailouts without serious conditions are really not the solution. we also need efficient bankruptcy regulation and robust stress tests, in particular with transparency of national liabilities.
in writing. what has long hung like a sword of damocles over europe has now come to pass: private banks that are creditors to the eurozone's major public debtors are on the verge of bankruptcy. the commission's plans to recapitalise with efsf loans are totally inappropriate. firstly, the continuously increased efsf has long since reached its financial limits, which would be negligently exceeded in the event of a (second) bank rescue. the second is that the causes of the debt crisis are still not being tackled. instead, the current path of transforming the eu into a transfer union with a centralistic economic government in brussels is being pursued regardless of the losses. despite expert opinion, billions are being pumped into the rescue of ailing eu countries such as greece, only to see the foreseeable failure of this doomed approach as an opportunity to finally remove the sovereignty of eu member states through the back door. in order to achieve this pyrrhic victory, the european council itself was postponed, so that the slovak opposition could give in to a new wave of pressure in time for the council meeting. further centralisation plans will not help the crisis, they will only make it worse. we must return to a federation of equal states with independent economic policies and a smaller hard currency zone of economically strong states.
in writing. the council summit, which has been postponed to 23 october, will be a very, very important one in view of its agenda and the current situation in europe. despite the financial situation we are all in, and precisely because of it, we must keep our eyes on the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's create 'green jobs' across europe and give a new impetus to the labour market! we are also solving part of the climate problem in the long term and in a sustainable way. the next climate summit is coming up. it offers a new opportunity to bring the us and china into the international legal boat. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. we can only congratulate the danes and finns on their wise and patriotic decision! the security interests of our own citizens must be paramount here. the fight against corruption, organised crime, trafficking in human beings and prostitution remains weak in romania and bulgaria, and progress is slow. my own country, austria, is a particularly popular destination for eastern smugglers because of its exposed geographical location. an eu regulation on the permanent control of compliance with the schengen rules is currently being worked on. in any event, it should include sanctioning mechanisms to address gaps in individual member states. the commission should also be able to temporarily reintroduce border controls when the security interests of citizens are at stake. instead of boycotting dutch tulip bulb exports at the border, romania should protect its external borders from other invaders.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can fully support what you have said, madam commissioner, on behalf of my group. ukraine must be aware of where it wants to go. if it wants to go the european way, it must meet certain conditions, namely accepting and implementing the principles of our legal order. my group rejects any kind of criminal trial, any kind of trial that has the appearance of political persecution. we have suspicions that things are happening in hungary which do not fully meet the legal standard when prosecutions are being sought against mr gyurcsány. if we criticize this, then we cannot accept what is happening in ukraine now. we have a common legal position, and that means that we have to have proceedings based on proper european principles and not as an act of revenge by a government. everyone in this house knows that we are trying to have good working relations, especially with the party of regions, and that we are very much in favour of ukraine's efforts to go down the european road. we will do everything we can to ensure that this can continue. i therefore agree with mr saryusz-wolski. we should continue the negotiations. but our group will send a clear signal to kiev that these are not the conditions for bringing the relations between the european union and ukraine to a better and higher level. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
i have to say, madam president, under tymoshenko and her cronies, the orange revolution is known to have been driven into mismanagement and profiling neurosis. there may indeed be all kinds of reasons for convicting ms tymoshenko, but does that really mean she should go to prison? she was not found guilty of corruption, but rather convicted for the content of the allegedly unfavourable gas deal for ukraine. that is why the politically motivated judgment is incompatible with our legal principles. the conviction of tymoshenko was clearly foreseeable as a political death blow and a pretext for the termination of the gas contract. yanukovych may have eliminated a competitor, but he certainly did his country a disservice. on the one hand, the judgment of moscow is considered anti-russian, that is clear, and kiev is forced to make a deal with the russians because of its dependence on gas. on the other hand, the judgment deliberately places a burden on the eu negotiations. the eu must therefore consider carefully whether it is really necessary to suspend the association agreement in protest, and thus accept a setback for the eastern partnership.
in writing. madam president, madam high representative, with the conviction of yulia tymoshenko, ukraine has taken a step away from the eu. i agree with the high representative and some of my previous speakers in their comments and see a clear political motivation behind the judgment. the european union must now ask itself whether such an approach is conducive to eu-ukraine relations. if ukraine continues on its present course and abandons the values and principles of a common europe, this will not help to bring the two parties closer together. the eu's position is and must be clear. the events surrounding mrs yulia tymoshenko will certainly affect the negotiations on an association agreement and a trade agreement, that is beyond question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that would be the wrong signal. i agree with the approach of my colleague, mr saryusz-wolski, to continue the negotiations in order to reach a conclusion. the ratification could then be postponed. one of the eu's fundamental principles is the rule of law. we must defend these without reservation and demand them from our partners.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of vat as a source of revenue for the currently strained state budgets makes any improvement of the current system desirable. the vat system is based on legislation adopted at eu level and applied by the individual member states. the first guiding principle should be practical justiciability. the european commission's green paper criticises the complexity of the existing system and its failure to meet the requirements of a genuine internal market. the rules clearly called for by our rapporteur, with a broad-based vat system with as few exceptions as possible, seem to me to be a logical approach. the objectives are to improve the efficiency of the collection and to reduce the subsequent costs of the enterprises in a meaningful way. adjustments to the requirements of the internal market must ensure the functioning of the tax system. the most effective way of safeguarding and increasing tax revenue is to limit the opportunities for abuse effectively. it is to be hoped that the unbundling of the system will make it easier for member states to implement future directives. i too thank you for the good report.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask mr caspary what he thinks about the wto round now entering its final phase, and whether he believes that in december - and this would be particularly important for the economic crisis - that this round will be concluded and we will have new opportunities for economic growth here - that america and president obama will be behind it so that this wto round can actually be a success.
in writing. − the european court of justice ruled in 2002 that certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements between member states and third countries in the field of air services infringe the freedom of establishment. negotiations with the third countries concerned, including cape verde, have therefore been opened with a view to replacing the clauses in question in an agreement at eu level. the relevant provisions of the eight bilateral agreements previously concluded with the republic of cape verde are to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement at european union level. the strong emphasis on the freedom of establishment of foreign air transport services could potentially result in competitive disadvantages for european aviation. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde providing for eu-compliant rules on air services between eu member states and third countries. this is due to a 2002 ecj decision which found that certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements infringed the freedom of establishment under eu law. in the present case, the republic of cape verde has eight existing agreements with member states, the provisions of which are replaced or supplemented by this agreement, which is now being put to the vote. since the agreements meet the criteria of efficiency, proportionality and subsidiarity and all airlines in the eu are granted access to routes between the eu and these third countries, here cape verde, without any discrimination, i have agreed to this agreement.
in writing. − a reform of insurance supervision law in europe is designed to reduce the risks of insolvency of insurance companies. with 'solvency ii', supervisory measures will be phased in from 2013 onwards, starting with calls for capital increases, through a ban on new business, to the compulsory sale of assets. the rapporteur supplements the commission proposal with a comprehensive, homogeneous consumer protection guarantee and a taxpayer protection guarantee in the event of a back-up system failing. i agreed to it.
in writing. − as vat is one of the main sources of revenue for the member states and the current vat system no longer corresponds to the current state of the eu internal market, it is time to revise the outdated system. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − in april 2010, a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a european union guarantee for any losses incurred by the european investment bank from loans and guarantees for projects outside the european union was presented. a mid-term review of the eib's external mandate was agreed. the european parliament adopted some amendments at first reading and, after negotiations with the council and the commission, reached agreement for the second reading. some of the proposed changes may actually lead to improvements. however, the accountability and transparency of the use of the eu budget guarantee remains insufficient. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib), whose shareholders are the eu member states, is one of the eu's main financial instruments. its lending outside the eu accounted for more than 12% of its total lending in 2010. based on the results of a 'mid-term review', the objective was to maintain the eu guarantee for eib financing in third countries for the remaining period of the current financial perspective 2007-13, while introducing some innovations in the mandate. i agreed because, after intensive negotiations, the extended mandate of the eib will allow for much better coordination to achieve eu objectives, considerably more accountability and transparency, and better use of the eu budgetary guarantee.
in writing. the commission proposal implements article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacture of firearms (for civilian use) and their trade or transfer in third countries. a simplified procedure is provided for hunters and marksmen. the socioeconomic impact on gdp and employment in the eu is also taken into account. it is recommended that the concept of a criminal offence be illustrated in order to increase legal certainty.
in writing. − the objective of this regulation was and remains to stimulate the economies of the western balkan states and to promote political stability in these regions. in order to continue to meet this objective, it is important to make these updates and to adapt the regulation to the circumstances. the expiry of trade preferences would result in an economic disadvantage for the beneficiary countries. last but not least, i support the amendment of the regulation introducing special trade measures for the countries and territories participating in or associated with the european union's stabilisation and association process, in order to maintain and further promote the eu's good partnerships with the countries and regions concerned.
in writing. − regulation 1215/2009/ec granted trade preferences to western balkan states which are more closely linked to the eu through the stabilisation and association process. the background to this economic cooperation is the positive effect it has on the domestic reform and transition processes of non-eu countries. i have agreed to the extension of the trade preferences until 31 december 2015.
in writing. - further centralisation plans will not help the crisis, they will only make it worse. we must return to a federation of equal states with independent economic policies and a smaller hard currency zone of economically strong states. despite all the setbacks and warnings from experts, the previous misguided path of transforming the eu into a transfer union with a centralistic economic government in brussels is being pursued regardless of the losses. contrary to the opinion of experts, billions are being pumped into the rescue of ailing eu countries such as greece, in order to use the foreseeable failure of this doomed solution as an opportunity to finally eliminate the sovereignty of eu member states through the back door. i therefore strongly oppose this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the intergroup resolution which sets high, but justified, expectations of the heads of state or government. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union was already at an early stage. the accession of these countries to the schengen area would therefore be an even greater mistake. the efforts of bulgaria and romania to improve the protection of their borders with non-eu countries do not meet the schengen criteria. the lack of action against organised crime in both countries is diametrically opposed to the security interests of austria and the european union. the inclusion of bulgaria and romania in the schengen area would allow the uncontrolled entry of criminal forces into western europe. this must be prevented at all costs. that is why i am against the motion.
in writing. − the schengen agreement in the eu treaty provides for the abolition of border controls as a right of each member state if it meets the security requirements a final catalogue . the evaluation by the schengen evaluation working group, an expert committee, found that both countries meet the formal criteria, and that, in part due to large investments and state-of-the-art equipment, they are even better prepared than long-serving schengen countries. concerns about excessive labour mobility are unfounded, given that the 2% mark for this mobility has hardly changed over the last thirty years. the fear that the opening of the borders will open the door to organised crime must also be rejected, since the inclusion of the two countries in the schengen area and the associated accession of romania and bulgaria to the common sis system would, on the contrary, mean more security. the council of ministers has not yet adopted a decision on the basis of the commission's proposal, but it is still not yet possible to conclude that the council of ministers has not adopted a decision on the basis of the commission's proposal. the rejection of the admission of member states to the schengen area on the basis of arbitrary criteria is an illegal and shameful act for the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which urges the member states to 'not subordinate the decision to extend the schengen area to national populism'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is probably not the right time for me to speak; i've been thinking about when a good time might be, but i can't think of one. i was reminded by mrs fajon that our names are no longer on the list. i'm not even sure i belong here anymore. when i called you, you called mrs roth-behrendt. maybe there's something wrong with the seating arrangement. perhaps you could have your services check it out.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i think it is very important that on thursday we not only hear what has come out - and hopefully we will hear it after the summit is over - but that we also make parliament's position clear once again. i would suggest that we do the following: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in that sense, i would support it. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, there are some 88 000 000 people with disabilities in the eu. for disabled people, mobility in our society means that they can live their lives as freely as possible, independently and thus in a self-determined way. the key to this is to integrate disabled people more fully into the labour market. the employment rate of disabled people varies between member states and is rather low on the eu average. there is therefore still much to do and much to catch up. studies show that disabled people often perform above average when used appropriately according to their abilities and competencies. this awareness must also be increased in the eu. small and mediumsized enterprises in particular play a central role in the employment of disabled people. the integration of disabled people should also be a parameter in public procurement.
in writing. the award criterion of the most economically advantageous tender is no longer useful in modernising public procurement. it is wrong, in times of economic crisis and climate change, to simply ignore socially and environmentally sustainable services. i am in favour of adopting the report, but the work is only just beginning. i am in favour of the criterion of the most sustainable offer in order to introduce these essential political ideas into the markets and into economic life. it is the mix that makes it - price plays a big part, but we should remember that innovative, social, long-term criteria have an equally crucial part that cannot be simply ignored. these social and quality criteria, which are intended to have an effect at national and regional level, must be regarded as binding contractual requirements for contractors and subcontractors alike. it is important to me that social standards, respect for collective agreements and the payment of statutory minimum wages in the execution of contracts and in the supply and subcontracting chain become mandatory for the award of contracts in order to respect the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. the social aspect of the contracting process must be a common thread running through this issue.
mr watson, you are a very experienced parliamentarian and a great connoisseur of china. what would you say if, during your time as a member of parliament, you were asked what progress has actually been made for smes in relation to the question you thankfully asked? do you see any progress? is it not always more of the same, namely, overbureaucratization? and if you compare that to your experience in china, would you say that smes, as far as they exist, and they exist in many cases, are less regulated in china than in the european union?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that. it's all been said, but not by everyone. i do not wish to join in that but i would like to commend you once again, commissioner. what you have said is important and correct, but it has not yet arrived. the reality when dealing with representatives of smes is still one of great distance from what the european union can actually do, whether in reducing red tape or in accessing appropriate public funds. you know the numbers: only 34% of all public procurement contracts in the european union reach smes, although they account for more than half of economic output on average. there is a reason for this, and it has a lot to do with your specific activity. you're still needed. you can be optimistic. i'd like that, too. i have had the opportunity on several occasions in the economic committee to draw up reports on the standardization of statistics and on making them more accessible. at the end of the day, it always has a lot to do with the ease of oversight and access to information. there is still a lot that could be done in the area of your internet portals and the possibilities of obtaining the money as unbureaucratically as possible. i would encourage and encourage you to pay special attention to this as part of this activity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three years ago, the eu once again announced that it would take a greater interest in small and medium-sized enterprises. but the economic crisis hit smes particularly hard right after the initiative was launched, and the ever-tightening rules of the basel committee on banking are particularly hard on small and medium-sized enterprises with little capital. the eu study on the high growth potential of smes in non-european markets and the adjusted strategy announced at the end of the month will hardly change the underlying problems. the crisis of public debt is hampering economic growth, and the promised bureaucratic relief is not really showing up. if 99% of european companies, which are also the largest employers, can only profit from 10 to 15% of european funds, it is high time to change the eu system of subsidies for large corporations and multinational companies by renationalizing the system of subsidies and helping small and medium-sized enterprises quickly and unbureaucratically.
mr president, commissioner barnier, you are very well aware of the fact that the commission is not in a position to take any action on this matter. i think that the slovak minister of finance, mr mikloš, has made a point of saying that people who invest in us and create jobs and then also bear the risk of doing so should not be deprived of their money. we should try to support those people who create jobs and take risks in a way that ensures that they have the right liquidity. that is, they simply need products and services that customers buy. and if they can sell it at a profit, then there's a credit rating in the company, and with that credit rating, the companies get loans. the real challenge in this crisis is to make europe more competitive again. we must ensure that our companies become more competitive internationally. we need a new strategy for training and continuing training in our companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. it is not for nothing that bulgaria is at the forefront with 10% profit tax, while greece has the highest profit tax at 40%, where entrepreneurs ultimately refuse to pay these taxes. here you should learn the laffer curve, which simply also tells you the optimal taxation.
in writing. three years ago, the eu announced that it would once again focus on smes. but once again, it wasn't planned consistently. the economic crisis hit smes particularly hard right after the initiative was launched. the ever-tightening rules of the basle banking committee have been the main cause of financial distress for small and mediumsized enterprises with limited capital. the eu study on the high growth potential for smes in non-european markets and the adapted strategy announced at the end of the month will hardly change the underlying problems. not only is economic growth, which has been paralysed by the sovereign debt crisis, hurting companies, but the promised bureaucratic relief is also not being felt. if 99% of european companies, which are also the largest employers - and that is what smes are - can only profit from 10 to 15% of european funds, it is high time to change the eu's system of support for large corporations and multinational companies by renationalizing the support system. and the promised red tape and rethinking of the basel reforms must be felt before smes run out of money.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european semester is a policy steering instrument to reinforce the impact of the europe 2020 strategy. since then, member states have had to table their economic policy plans in the spring - a procedure that has definitely become necessary to get a handle on the disastrous financial situation of many member states. i would like to say here that i agree with the technical criticism of my colleagues. realising the potential of the single market the eu's economic pillar is one of ten objectives in the 2011 annual growth survey to be achieved by 2012. we are all called upon to harness this potential, for example by financing infrastructure projects and boosting competitiveness, with a particular focus on smes and the creation of green jobs, in order to contribute to sustainable growth in europe.
i have to say, madam president, the shift to the european level has eliminated the disciplining forces of the markets. the whole of europe is now paying a heavy price for this. instead of giving the greeks a chance to recover outside the euro, for example, they were dragged along at all costs and debt-taking was made easier accordingly. the eu's latest marketing ploy is to increase financial transparency. the commission's monitoring of national budgets in the form of the european semester will, however, soon be reduced to a mere planning bureaucracy with empty declarations. and the fact that a planned eu economy is going to hell is already proven by butter mountains and milk lakes of the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems that brussels does not want to see that, because of the different economic conditions of its members, monetary union is a flawed design that was doomed from the start. instead of more centralisation, we must return to a federation of states with equal rights and their own economic policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today, members of the coptic religious community in egypt are holding a peaceful demonstration outside parliament. we know that the copts are one of the oldest christian religious communities. after the massacre of 9 october in egypt, which is the sad culmination of the persecution of christians in egypt, these coptic christians are crying out for our help. they are calling for help from europe, they are calling for help from the european parliament. we too often feel responsible for the whole world, but today let us look out our front door and be ready to help our brothers and sisters in egypt, a christian community in need! (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i have agreed to the two proposals by mrs trüpel in the cases of the amendment of the establishment plan of the european data protection supervisor (edps) and the amendment of the establishment plan of the european external action service (eeas). in the case of the edps, the commission's proposal should amend the edps's budget by deleting one ad14 post and creating one ad15 post in the establishment plan of the specific timetable ix at the same time. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in the case of the ead, it is a request to convert 40 temporary posts into 40 permanent posts. this is the implementation of a decision of the european council to have at least one third of the ead staff staff be staff from the member states and to convert temporary posts into permanent posts. overall, the committee on budgets monitors the staff development of the edf meticulously and always very critically. however, it should be noted that the creation of a completely new organisation of this size within the eu will lead to changes in the establishment plan over time, which must be taken into account. that is why we voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − since the refusal of discharge for the financial year 2008, several restructuring measures have taken place within the european police college. the regular discussions in the committee on budgetary control, to which the new director and representatives of the academy were invited, and the reports on the progress of the measures, gave me an optimistic outlook. however, it is essential to keep a close watch on further developments. i have therefore agreed to the discharge.
in writing. − on 10 may 2011, the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge decision for the financial year 2009 and called for further reviews and responses on the budgetary management of the european police college. these reviews have since been carried out extensively, including with external assistance. the police academy has now largely complied with specific parliamentary requirements and its continued compliance is continuously monitored. the former management of the academy was also replaced. for these reasons, mr stavrakakis proposes to grant the new director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2009. the further development of the academy is linked to strict conditions, constant monitoring and continuous information to parliament. i agree with that.
in writing. − the discharge decision for the 2009 financial year was also postponed for the first time in may for the european medicines agency. the agency is partly financed by the union budget, with a contribution decreased by 9,2% between 2008 and 2009. on 17 may, the agency informed parliament of the measures taken to address the shortcomings identified in 2009 and the court of auditors reduced its audit opinion. i agreed to it.
in writing. - the proposal is a mere codification of existing acts without any change in their content and was therefore approved.
in writing. − the creation of simple, clear procedures is designed to meet the needs of citizens and businesses. unfortunately, due to the limited knowledge of eu citizens about alternative dispute resolution procedures, these procedures are not fully used, although this is often the cheaper option. it is therefore essential to make these more public. however, there is still some legislative work to be done: a major obstacle to the use of the procedures is that the mechanisms already in place are distorted by a lack of uniform development. these gaps must be closed as quickly as possible. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the right of parliamentary scrutiny and monitoring of the eu budget's detailed plans is enshrined in the eu treaties. the practice of applying individual discharge decisions to all institutions must be abandoned. the responsibility for the implementation of the budget shall lie with the institution concerned and shall not be delegated to the commission. in particular, open questions put by the european parliament in the discharge procedure as was the case in the 2009 procedure also have to be answered by the council. moreover, the council's refusal to reply is contrary to the mutual agreement on the transmission of documents and the answer to questions. the court of auditors also exercises its control separately from the commission and only the european parliament can grant discharge. and it is precisely this democratic accountability that must be maintained in the interest of the citizen. this is all the more so as the trend towards outsourcing to eu agencies has been going on for years. i rejected the report because of the trend towards outsourcing.
in writing. − the european parliament has refused to grant discharge for the 2009 council budget, as too many open questions from parliament remain unanswered by the council. citizens must be able to be informed about the use of their tax money, and the council is obliged to follow the same rules as the other eu institutions. i have agreed with that view.
in writing. − the report aims to sign and ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, including its additional protocol. people with disabilities are at increased risk of poverty, so we have a social obligation to ensure that they receive the best possible care. the existing rights must now be finally implemented and all social barriers and lack of access to services and products must be removed or optimized. in this context, early childhood development is particularly important. the commitment and efforts for people should be seen as a sustainable social investment. support measures must be tailored to the individual and his or her disability. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - since the entry into force of directive 71/305/eec, many achievements have been made in the field of public procurement, but the public procurement rules need to be improved in line with the ecj judgments. the disadvantage is the low-cost approach, which is detrimental to quality, innovation and sustainability. the technical production process is also crucial in terms of sustainability. the aim is to facilitate access for smes by removing existing barriers and ensuring a level playing field. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - it is to be welcomed that the remaining problems of coordination of schemes, such as supplementary pension entitlements, double taxation, etc., should be eliminated. but it is precisely in the light of demographic developments that it is questionable whether measures to promote the mobility of workers, which are also accompanied by the relaxation of family ties, are at all useful in the broad sense. as new member states with lower wage levels have been admitted, transitional periods for the labour market have been agreed. finally, strong immigration flows from poorer countries to richer regions are accompanied by falling wages and job losses. if a study concludes that immigration from low-wage countries does not have a negative impact but is supposed to be positive due to a convergence of labour demand and supply, the question arises whether this was only done for jobs where there has already been a massive price pressure due to (illegal) immigration for a long time. it is also questionable to what extent this study has included pseudo-independence and mac-jobs, which are also relatively recent phenomena. i voted against the report because of the problems on the labour market.
in writing. - the report on promoting worker mobility has many good points, such as the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. equal treatment of workers in the 'european labour market' is one of the main principles i am committed to in my parliamentary work. the european union is designed to enable people to move freely. that means they can work wherever they can find a job. but it is also important that people are not forced to leave their homes, which is often the opposite of worker mobility. my country austria has found a good solution for the austrian labour market and has implemented the idea of gradual migration according to the needs of the labour market. as the report, which contains many points which are correct in their entirety, seeks to abolish the possibility for member states to provide for transitional periods for workers from romania and bulgaria, i abstained in adopting the resolution. despite the relatively good labour market situation in austria, member states should have sufficient scope to control their labour markets, particularly as a result of the financial crisis.
in writing. − according to studies, labour migration has always had a positive impact on the european union. the fact that certain jobs were unattractive to european citizens meant that the labour market could be served in terms of demand. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to work is guaranteed in the member states. the change in the structure of work makes it important to coordinate skills upgrading and to accelerate the recognition of qualifications. the report calls for a comprehensive mobility strategy, and i agree with it.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the mutual evaluation of the services directive because i believe that it is important for member states to share their experience of the mutual evaluation of the services directive. this is the only way to ensure that the proper functioning of the internal market in services is followed up in a meaningful way. it is noted that the mutual evaluation procedure still has some shortcomings which should be addressed. i am concerned about the transparency of the procedure and the involvement and information of stakeholders. it should also be stressed that the evaluation should be limited to the framework directive and cover only the most important provisions, in order to leave a margin of discretion to the member states and avoid excessive administrative burden.
in writing. − this report analyses experience gained under the mutual evaluation procedure under article 39 of the services directive adopted in 2006. the purpose of the procedure is to establish the state of the internal market in services after the implementation of the said directive. consultations between member states have revealed the clear positions of the national states, the remaining obstacles and the difficulties of those member states which have not yet completed implementation. the key finding of the evaluation is that there are still serious complications in the crossborder provision of services. i agreed to it.
in writing. − while the increasing global economic growth of recent decades has brought increased prosperity, millions of people still live in poverty because of the unequal distribution of wealth. current account imbalances are the result of national imbalances. the lack of regulatory and supervisory mechanisms in the global financial system has led to weaknesses in the global financial sector. it is now important to tackle imbalances in both surplus and deficit countries. the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease. the eu should take a leading role in reforming the international monetary and financial system, increasing its role as a single actor and participating more fully in wto activities, and seeking solutions towards improved coordination between the g-formation and un systems. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in this respect, a common financial regulatory framework between the us and the eu would be desirable. i agreed to it.
in writing. - every society has a duty to promote single mothers and to provide them with an economic and social base. 85% of single parents in the eu are women. in austria, it is 90%. in particular, in times of economic crisis, it is necessary to provide additional support to single mothers, who face a triple burden: single parenthood, gender discrimination in the labour market and the wage gap are rapidly pushing women and their children into a cycle of poverty with no prospects. that is why i supported mrs matera's report.
in writing. - as a result of social developments, the number of single parents, i.e. not only single mothers but also single fathers, has increased steadily. while in the southern member states the family network is thought to help in this situation, in the northern and nordic countries there are state approaches such as financial assistance and support systems and in the eastern european countries a combination of these approaches. naturally, women are particularly affected by the economic crisis of recent years. they are often affected by high unemployment. this can easily send single mothers into a cycle of poverty that is passed on to their children. single parents face a difficult situation, but it is not just mothers who may find themselves in a precarious situation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - single mothers now make up 5% of the total female population in europe and this figure is rising. it was therefore time to address the barriers and disadvantages they face in their daily lives, in order to ensure that they and their children have equal opportunities in education, training and the labour market. the european institute for gender equality in vilnius is a place where research and research projects can lead to implementation measures and solutions. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − organized crime remains a major problem. in particular, little progress has been made in combating mafia structures. unfortunately, globalization and the disappearance of internal borders have been exploited by criminal gangs on a large scale. in recent years, in particular, trafficking has become one of the most lucrative business lines of organized crime. the extent to which italian mafia organisations, as well as other european and non-european criminal organisations (e.g. the russian, albanian, turkish and nigerian mafias) and drug cartels have established networks in almost all eu countries is of particular concern. the eu's instruments to combat organised crime cannot be sufficient, especially when they are accompanied by de facto continuous staff cuts in the police and judiciary. i cannot therefore agree with the report, although it contains some good points.
in writing. − organized crime has enormous social costs in the european union, while also fuelling corruption and undermining human rights. the report now before us sets out guidelines for the fight against organised crime, a strategy based on the full implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions and the optimisation of judicial and police cooperation between member states and third countries. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the fourth high-level forum will set out future commitments to make development cooperation more effective. it is essential to establish commitments for effective development aid, the principles of the 'paris declaration' alone are not enough, donor and partner countries must be informed in time about the flow of funds in accordance with the accra action plan, in order to allow targeted financial control for developing countries. since the eu, together with its member states, provides more than half of official development assistance, it should also take a leading position in the field of development cooperation. to this end, the political strategies in the area of division of labour should be revised to ensure that human rights, social inclusion, equality and climate change are taken into account. i agreed to the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the crisis is still all around us, and there is still no solution on the table. munich reinsurance has announced that it will write off a large part of greece's debt. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the real problem facing europe is the lack of a united and determined political leadership. why is the council still debating the question of private sector involvement when the private sector is already beginning to act independently? this means, first of all, that europe's political leadership is lagging behind reality. the question is already being asked, following the reports of the greek troika last week, whether a debt reduction will be enough for the country in the end. this is also a consequence of the temporary failures of european policy. i therefore appeal to all those involved to act now, without delay, with determination and unity.
i have to say, madam president, since the first effects of the crisis on labour markets began in 2008, some 5.6 million jobs have been lost in europe. every statistic proves that the lower the education, the more likely the unemployment rate is to increase exponentially. this is about every level of education. the school must ensure that each pupil is able to follow the lessons in the language of the member state concerned. we cannot allow the standard of living of future generations to suffer from the lack of integration policies. finally, incentives for lifelong learning should be provided at all ages. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. smes play a central role in training, both in highly specialised innovative sectors and in the provision of basic skills in the craft sector. the eu should therefore provide financial support for traineeships in the sme sector. in conclusion, as we all know, the economic outlook for 2012 is far from rosy, and there is talk of a looming recession. the eu must therefore draw the necessary conclusions and restrict economic migration. it is not worthwhile bringing in more unskilled people to europe in addition to the unemployed and the unemployed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is hardly a report that fits the current labour market and economic situation as perfectly as the regina bastos report. i would also like to focus here, as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on culture and education, on the area which is of the highest priority for the future of young people. mrs hirsch also mentioned that youth unemployment in europe is extremely high, rising twice as fast as the average unemployment rate of all workers. in some member states it is as high as 50%. that is why the bastos report is so important in order to give young people a real chance in the labour market. we must take immediate action to implement the measures called for in the report. this young generation must not lose hope for the future! we have some aspects of this which are known in europe as benchmarking. it is the dual training a successful model based on the social partnership. it's the lifelong learning offensive that is synchronously necessary to reduce dropout rates as well. it is the competence in communication technology, since computers and the internet are the third cultural technology after reading and writing. i congratulate regina bastos and all her colleagues on this important report. in conclusion, there are also occupational profiles which are of particular importance for young and old people: this is the large area of care, care, care work, where, due to demographic projections, there will be a huge need and a great potential for jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank you in advance, commissioner, and all the members who, after so many speeches, are still paying attention to what i have to say. i have listened carefully to what commissioner damanaki has said. she said that there is no automatic mechanism to create jobs, the commission only provides the instruments. i therefore come to the instruments proposed by the commission and i would like to put an end to this by telling a story. it is not worthwhile, either at the beginning of a career or later, to be as flexible as possible, either financially or otherwise. the more flexible the employment system, the less people earn and the less social protection they have. and what's very important is that the growth of flexible, precarious employment, endless internships, is not an incentive for people to develop the much-needed innovative, forward-looking knowledge, skills and abilities that we urgently need, like a piece of bread. i speak viennese now: if i have to run around a laiberl every day - let's say in vienna - that is, i have to constantly look for an internship, think about whether i will get the next temporary employment contract, it takes so much imagination and energy that should be better spent on acquiring the appropriate qualifications. there is a study by the european youth forum from 2011 - very recent - which says that three quarters of 4,000 respondents, mostly under 25 years old, received no or insufficient remuneration. this means that most of the so-called interns had to be supported financially by their parents. i therefore make a very clear demand in this connection: it is necessary to include a charter for the rights of trainees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. this is perhaps even more so today. but it is essential that we make a clear commitment to maternity and paternity leave at a high level. so now is the time for pragmatism. the problem is to find the best possible solution from what is on the table. one approach may be to look not for a maximum solution but for the best possible standard solution, that is to say, a minimum standard which is formed from below for the whole of europe before enlargement is discussed. it is also important to look at the situation in the national states. for example, in austria, paternity leave is regulated by a separate law. i am not yet sure that all these aspects are being taken into account, so far the focus has been exclusively on maternity protection. in other words, in the present situation, we must examine the proposals in a pragmatic and calm manner and actively seek dialogue between parliament and the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened to a great deal of the debate today and i must express my astonishment at some of the points. i am surprised to hear from the conservatives in this parliament, the european people's party in particular, that this is costing too much, that the european parliament has asked too much and that we should actually be much quieter and not ask so much. at the same time, it is precisely the conservatives who, for example, in my home country, austria, always say that they are the party of the family, that they are the party of the economy. i wonder if you haven't realized that good maternity protection and the fact that fathers can stay with the babies in the beginning also have an economic benefit. not only happy children and happy families, but also more motivated workers in their companies. so why don't you take this seriously and actually create what a family party should be. i would like to say something about parliament not asking for so much. i demand that the council at least... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament's guideline in drafting the 2012 eu budget is to focus the action on achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the 2012 budget is indeed a shrinking budget. the additional costs of the accession of croatia and the 18 new meps created by the lisbon treaty must be taken into account. this corresponds to an overall increase of 1,9% compared to 2011. it should be noted that this is the lowest rate of increase in 15 years. in recent years, new tasks and the resulting additional costs have been managed without major increases, for example, the introduction of the three new financial market agencies. the most urgent tasks ahead, i believe, are the completion of the internal market and increased investment in education, especially for our young people. i would also like to thank my colleagues balzani, böge and fernandes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the commission's priorities are well chosen. we must, above all, have a forward strategy to create new income and new jobs. the european budget is therefore very well placed to provide the right structures. i would suggest to those of you in parliament who are in favour of savings that you too should set an example and use these savings accordingly. i think it is also necessary to set clear guidelines here. we want to see in the budget for 2014 that pre-structuring is also taking place here, which will enable us to get the debt crisis under control. perhaps the financial transaction tax would also be a means of providing the euro shield with credit in the future, so that the bondholders would also receive the guarantee that the bonds could be repaid.
in writing. − the 2012 budget may contain the lowest budget for own expenditure of the eu parliament in 15 years. nevertheless, there is still a lot of savings potential here, especially in the case of the brussels-strasbourg traveling circus. it is also time to search the eu agency jungle for savings potential. it is a shame that even the fight against fraud and the recovery of european aid unduly paid out is not working properly. the report calls for a 5.2 per cent increase, which would increase the eu budget to €133.1 billion next year. this is a devastating signal, especially in times of financial, economic and debt crisis. the european union is also proposing to increase the budget for the european union, but the european union is not yet ready to do so. i voted against this budget, which once again follows the motto 'preach water and drink wine'.
in writing. − outside the eu, norway is the closest and most important cooperation partner for the european satellite navigation systems (gnss) galileo and egnos. this agreement governs eu cooperation with norway and norway's general rights and obligations, particularly in the field of security. since norway has provided technical, political and financial support to the galileo project and is therefore closely integrated into the structure of european satellite navigation, this agreement is intended to continue to promote cooperation in the future. norway hosts two important ground stations which are used for the smooth operation of the system, so this agreement is more than necessary. the european satellite system must remain part of europe's economic and research area, and norway is doing its part. that is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − norway is a non-eu cooperation partner in the gnss system and has contributed politically, technically and financially to all phases of galileo over the years. the agreement formalises cooperation between norway and the eu in the field of satellite navigation. the commission recommends provisional application of the agreement, and i agree with that.
in writing. − as eu tax competition became a zero-point for member states' freedom of action in the public sector, the average rate of corporate taxation fell from 44% in 1980 to 23.2% in 2010. the member states must adopt legal instruments on the establishment of establishments in order to protect national tax revenues and to avoid under- or non-taxation. it is essential to counteract the race for low corporate tax rates (tax shopping) by applying a minimum rate of 25% to the improper taxation of capital outflows in the receiving member state.
in writing. - it is highly problematic when, in the course of the budgetary procedure, including the discharge procedure, the dialogue with the individual institutions does not function smoothly, as was the case with the discharge to the council. the treaty of lisbon further strengthened the role of the european parliament. but as long as the eu is not able to get its fraud-fighting under control, and billions are being wasted on this, not to mention other wasteful spending such as the european travelling circus with two or three parliamentary seats and, above all, the eu agency jungle, there can be no question of 'economic and effective budgetary management' or 'transparency'. i therefore rejected the report on the financial regulation.
in writing. − while the present report notes that the current economic, financial and social crisis has destroyed some of the progress made in the past, it must be made clear that the crisis has only exacerbated a long-term trend. the past has repeatedly promised that more jobs will be created. but the fact that the new jobs are mostly part-time and low-skilled, and that many people are being pushed into poverty traps by mac jobs, has been tacitly ignored. if the eu is constantly preaching good training as a guarantee of jobs and thinks that lifelong learning can put a stop to this development, then it is acting beyond reality. the number of unemployed academics, displaced by cheap competition from abroad, is a sign of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − as a result of the financial and economic crisis, unemployment has risen to 9.5% across the eu since 2008. under the europe 2020 strategy, member states have committed themselves to aiming for and achieving an employment rate of 75%. the changing demand profiles of enterprises require capacity optimisation in the union to adapt future skills and labour market needs to the labour market. for smes, red tape must be cut to support job creation. the aim is to develop and offer education and learning alternatives for school and apprenticeship leavers. i agreed to the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike many of the speakers here, i consider the establishment of this resettlement programme to be problematic, ineffective and not in the spirit of the status and recognition directive, which gives priority to internal protection in the parts of the country from which the refugee comes. i think it would be better to use the funds to help the people on the ground. this is a quick and effective help. this helps refugees to stay close to their original area and also helps them to return to their original area when the region is peaceful and safe again. i consider that a priority. i think that it is much more effective to consider such a course here than to discuss formalities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i cannot answer the question of the number of pets and the quantity of animals, but i can give you a few figures to start with, without mentioning the countries, but just the scale: for a population of about 8 million, 45 tonnes of antibiotics for human use and 60 tonnes for veterinary use, for a population of 80 million, 360 tonnes for human use and 780 tonnes for veterinary use, for a population of 160 million, 760 tonnes. this means that we are talking about orders of magnitude where we are using about twice as many antibiotics in veterinary medicine. we have very clear evidence that where more antibiotics are used, these strains are also developing resistance. the commissioner knows very well that he must look at this together. i am also convinced that today's resolution is not meant to be a reproach to anyone, but merely a sign of cooperation in the future. we have now very good programmes in each member state, monitoring programmes, monitoring measures on how medicines are used and dispensed. we need to have a certain interaction and control of the effect. we have already touched on the broadband antibiotics today. in german, it is shot with cannons on sparrows. we had the great discovery of penicillin in 1928 and thought it was a miracle weapon against all infectious diseases. in the meantime, we know that this weapon is no longer effective in many areas because we are resistant to it. i consider it to be the great task of the european union not to leave the individual member states to their own devices, but to pool our strengths, our knowledge and our interests and work together on the problem. because, as we have said today, if we do not find a coordinated approach here, we will end up with a superbug. we do not want to create fear today, we do not want to blame anyone today, we just want to find ways out of this crisis. we want this super cure for infectious diseases to continue in the future!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament, together with the commission, is showing its strength in the interests of the children of europe. this report by mrs angelilli, produced in exemplary intergroup cooperation, is the most powerful weapon against child abuse to date, which, as we know, has a pan-european, indeed a global, dimension, which proves that no member state can achieve anything on its own. the protection of children must be a priority in our political work. there's proof in here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. i am specifically referring to the media's portrayal of children, whereby children are portrayed as sexual objects through suggestive and lascivious poses. that is what the french magazine "vogue" recently did. in a europe-wide distribution, 10-year-old girls were shown in provocative, provocative poses - a clear incentive for the generation of criminal energy in paedophiles, according to experts. we have to start on the inside and outside of the internet. we must raise the clearly falling threshold of acceptance again in the future, because what affects our children requires maximum protection. the perversion of a notion of press freedom which has nothing to do with this must be stopped before we get to the abuse of children. the media must not encourage people with a history of paedophilia to take such publicity as an invitation. in this sense, let us continue the joint struggle between the commission and parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that a package of measures to combat child abuse has been adopted to protect the most vulnerable in our society, namely children. in future, there will be minimum penalties throughout the european union for child abuse, child prostitution, child pornography and child sex tourism. internet service providers and tour operators who indirectly profit from these abuses face heavy penalties. child sex tourism will be prosecuted as a criminal offence in all member states, even if the offence was committed outside the european union. it is also important to me that member states are obliged to delete child pornography sites and block access to foreign sites. i am convinced that our decision on the angelilli report, which is an excellent report, will effectively combat child abuse and child pornography and will better protect the most vulnerable in our society.
i have to say, madam president, the rights of the child are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, article 24. the un convention on the rights of the child has been ratified by all 27 member states. the existence of children's rights is one thing, but their implementation is another. their monitoring is of the utmost importance. only about 22% of children know about children's rights, according to a 2009 survey. this is an untenable situation, because children must be protected. the commission must create clear and as simple a framework as possible. this framework must strengthen and protect the parents who have custody of their child and therefore have responsibility for it, in the exercise of their parental responsibility. i would like to thank mrs angelilli in particular for this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should not be under any illusions about the current debate. it is worth remembering, for example, that the european practice of emphasizing the welfare of children in the asylum sector is what is driving many minors from the third world into the hands of smuggling organizations and thus into dangerous dependencies. i also believe that the concept of the family should not be broadened. the result of this is that, if it is handled too lightly, the family unit flourishes and thus a form of illegal immigration is confirmed. there are legions of people all over europe who are illegally entering the country and who are not entitled to asylum under the geneva convention. eventually, one hopes, you will be legalised, and armies of lawyers from so-called asylum organisations will be dragging the hopeless cases. in austria alone, only 15% of all asylum applications are granted. it is clear that bad business is being done on the backs of the other 85%. we should definitely prevent that.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i hope that together with you we can achieve a common european asylum system that provides rapid assistance to those who need it, but also prevents abuse. i am convinced that with this status and recognition directive we are taking a big step forward. i think it is particularly important that the concept of family has been narrowed down to prevent abuse. in the context of subsidiary protection, i think it is positive that internal protection is given priority, namely when there is the possibility of effective protection in a part of the country of origin. i also think it is important that reasons be given for the rapid procedures, when subsidiary protection is actually granted and when it is not. for example, it is clarified that subsidiary protection cannot be granted if the applicant has previously committed a serious crime.
i have to say, madam president, my job here in the european parliament is to protect fundamental rights. i am not the extended arm of the australian customs service, nor am i the extended arm of a global travel industry. that is why i shall not be voting for this agreement tomorrow either. moreover, no other agreement allows data to be available for such a long period without depersonalization. there is no adequate data protection in australia that would be on par with eu standards. profiling is not excluded. that was a major demand of the european parliament. it is good that this house is finally taking a strong stand against this multitude of security measures, that it is finally taking a strong stand against the threat of a preventive state. a state that tries to be in the place of the crime before the perpetrator and before the crime will eventually lose its legitimacy and fail. that is why i shall vote in favour of the gue/ngl group's initiative. i shall vote for the ecj's opinion. this is a very good initiative. i hope that this initiative will find a majority in this house tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, we all want to live in safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its commitments in the field of human rights. this is why security agencies around the world collect and analyze airline passenger data. the european union has concluded these agreements with the various countries to ensure that the transfer, storage and use of data is not as uncontrolled as it has been in the past, but in accordance with the law. while it is - as we all know - somewhat difficult to reach an agreement with the united states because we have a different legal and security culture, we did reach a very good agreement with australia. i consider some points to be particularly important. for example, that the areas of application are clearly defined and limited, namely to combating terrorist activities and serious cross-border crime, that eu citizens enjoy full legal protection in australia and it has a very high standard , that the push system applies, that data protection is guaranteed at a very high level. the agreement also ensures the safe and rapid handling of passengers on flights to australia. i am convinced that this agreement can be a benchmark for the other agreements which the european union is planning to conclude with various countries.
i have to say, madam president, it may well be that the passenger data agreement with australia was negotiated on better terms than the one with the usa. however, this does not change the basic problem of data protection, since the purpose of storing pnr is not to identify suspects at border control posts. no, rather, there is a needless and unsuspecting data retention of all travellers, who are then identified as risk travellers. it is particularly worrying that this massive interference with fundamental rights is being carried out in the name of counter-terrorism, even though the usefulness of pnr data for counter-terrorism has not yet been demonstrated. experts even believe that even the few individual successes that have been used as justification would have been possible without the pnr. the fact that data is transferred to australia via the push procedure is not in any way a step forward, as it is the only system that is compatible with eu data protection law. so data protection will remain an illusion even in the agreement with australia. unsuspected data transmissions are generally to be stopped.
mr president, commissioner, mr diamandouros, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the 2010 annual report has been presented to us and it is very clear that complaints about maladministration and weaknesses in the eu institutions have decreased compared to 2009 they went down from 3 098 to 2 667. it should be noted that you, mr diamandouros, were able to complete investigations, but also initiate them. the most frequent problem in the past year has been public access to documents access to information is already regulated in the tfeu itself in article 15 (3) and in article 42 of the charter of fundamental rights. the number of complaints clearly demonstrates the need for continuous review and revision of the relevant legal framework. at the same time, however, i would also like to call on the institutions to take responsibility for themselves in the spirit of the transparency initiative to which they have committed themselves. in conclusion, mr diamandouros, i would like to thank you for another year of your remarkable work. i hope that we will continue to work well together in the years to come.
mr president, mr diamandouros, commissioner, and members of the committee on petitions of the european parliament! thank you for this informative report from the institution set up for the citizens of europe. the factsheet on malpractice in the work of the eu institutions is a clear illustration of the importance of the ombudsman's work. the analyses presented in the report, which encourage greater transparency, improvements, acceleration and also a change in the often authoritarian behaviour in many parts of the commission's administration, speak for themselves. i would like to mention one aspect of the report which is more fundamental than it might appear at first sight. it is the decrease in complaints by almost 15% from 2009 to 2010 - a positive figure, but one that raises the legitimate question of whether our national governments and institutions have done and are doing everything possible to ensure that our citizens throughout europe are sufficiently informed about this institution and also about the direct route to the committee on petitions. i have doubts about the will of our member states.
in writing. the results of yesterday's eu summit have brought at least one thing - at last a result. the results are welcome, for they are "ordinary steps". a haircut of 50 percent for greece is a sign of 'european solidarity'. i would like to emphasize that this debt relief for greece should have been granted at this time last year and would have saved us - europe - a lot of trouble. you're always smarter in hindsight. we hope that the eu has learned from its mistakes, and that is why i am calling for responsibility and prudence in relation to our citizens, for foresight and timeliness in respect of compliance with the debt ratios and, above all, with regard to the announced leverage of the efsf.
in writing. − the european ombudsman, based in strasbourg, is the ombudsman of the european union and investigates complaints about maladministration in the administration of its institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. its activities are based on articles 8d and 138e of the treaty establishing the european community and on the decision of the european parliament (statute of the european ombudsman) of 9 march 1994 on the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman's duties. in 2010 alone, 2267 complaints were received, of which 326 were finally investigated. twelve studies were carried out on their own initiative. the most frequent complaints are about lack of transparency and come from germany, followed by spain. to improve the ombudsman's work, 64 posts were decided for the years 2009 to 2014 and a budget of around nine million euro. i abstained because i believe that the public in particular is not sufficiently informed about the ombudsman's activities.
in writing. − the european ombudsman investigates complaints about the administrative management of the eu institutions in accordance with his mandate. in 2010, 2667 new complaints were registered, and the ombudsman was able to close 326 of the investigations opened, over half of them by consensus. the european ombudsman's office has built up a broad expertise in the areas of the eu's structural weaknesses over the past 15 years of its existence, which has enabled the ombudsman to assist the european parliament in its work on a regular basis. i agreed to the report.
in writing. - the commission will be able to take a more stringent approach to these crimes only if the limitation periods are finally abolished at the same time. this is all the more significant when one considers that sexual abuse can often have devastating effects that extend into the next generation. in order to break the cycle of perpetrator-victim-perpetrator that has lasted for several generations, it is not only necessary to provide full legal information and harsh punishment for the perpetrators, but also to increase psychotherapeutic support. not to be overlooked is the recent increase in what is called virtual child pornography, or computer-animated depictions of sexual acts on children. and we must fight child prostitution on european soil, for example in border areas of the czech republic, hungary, ukraine, the baltic states and poland, on a massive scale. better action at eu level to combat sexual abuse of children is welcome.
in writing. − the revision of the status of thirdcountry nationals must not lead to an extension of the concept of family. the past has already proved what happens when unbridled family attachment is allowed to flourish. there is a very large number of people who have entered illegally and are not entitled to asylum under the geneva conventions. eventually, the status will be legalized if someone is just bold enough to hide for long enough. that's why armies of lawyers are fighting "asylum aid" organizations, who drag even the most hopeless cases to the last resort, taking years of asylum seekers' lives with false hopes. the aim must not be a european asylum policy in which people are told that they can be granted asylum and lawyers are given a golden nose on the backs of asylum seekers. the european union must be the first to take action on asylum. the directive must apply strict principles, following the danish example, rather than opening the door to unchecked mass immigration from all over the world. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − the implementation of directive 2004/83/ec on a common european asylum policy by 2012 has been heterogeneous and, above all, flexible, and therefore requires clear improvements to compensate for incompatible differences. i agreed to it.
in writing. − in view of the continuing concerns regarding the transfer and processing of passenger data, the current draft agreement with australia is to be submitted to the european court of justice for clarification as to its compatibility with eu law, in particular with eu data protection standards.
in writing. − the purpose of storing pnr is not to identify suspects at border control posts. no, rather, all travellers are kept in a database without any reason or suspicion, and are then identified as 'risk travellers'. it is particularly worrying that this massive interference with fundamental rights is being carried out in the name of the fight against terrorism, even though the usefulness of pnr data for the fight against terrorism has not yet been demonstrated. the fact that the transfer of data to australia is done under the 'push' procedure is not in any way a step forward, as it is the only system that is compatible with eu data protection law. in practice, it is also questionable whether airlines have a genuine interest in independently and selectively passing on passenger data to the authorities of the destination, given economic constraints. so even with the australia agreement, data protection will remain an illusion. i don't agree to an unsuspecting data release.
in writing. − i voted against the passenger name record (pnr) agreement with the usa and australia, as i believe that data protection is becoming more and more important and fundamental in our time and must therefore be safeguarded. the pnr agreement, despite some positive changes, grants the us the right to take over and store for five and a half years a large amount of personal data of its passengers. in the spirit of a european union which is based on civil rights, freedom of movement and the protection of privacy, i find this agreement intolerable. i believe that while civil liberties should not be sacrificed to the excessive fight against terrorism and crime, i am convinced that a balance can be struck between crime prevention and the protection of citizens' personal data. but since that is not the case at present, i have decided to vote against the agreement.
in writing. − the eu is currently negotiating three international agreements on the processing of passenger data sets with australia, canada and the usa. under australian border protection legislation, airlines are required to grant the australian customs authorities access to their passengers' data. the negotiations on a uniform eu legal framework for the processing of passenger name records from the eu were concluded in january 2011 and signed by the council on 29 september. the european parliament's executive committee has examined the agreement in detail. critical remarks were made on the adequacy of the data transfer provisions, the proportionality of the collection and storage, and the creation of profiles of persons which are not explicitly mentioned but are not really excluded. the draft agreement contains weaknesses in fundamental criteria of eu data protection, and i have therefore had to refuse to give my consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. −antibiotics are antimicrobial agents that act only against bacteria, and have played an important role in improving public health by reducing the number of deaths from diseases and infections that were previously incurable or fatal. increased antibiotic use is leading to the emergence of antibiotic resistance, which has become a global public health threat. another problem is that in livestock farming, antibiotics are often used, despite the prohibition on their use as growth promoters, and can also cause resistance in humans. i abstained on the vote on the resolution because i believe that there is a need for more information to the general public on the use of medicines. the pharmaceutical companies in particular should be encouraged to think not only of their own profits but also of the health of the people.
in writing. − public health is increasingly threatened by antimicrobial resistance. the present motion for a resolution calls on the commission to create without delay a legal framework to promote responsible use of active substances and to provide information through information initiatives. furthermore, a functioning control system for data collection is required to obtain reliable data on the sensitivity of pathogens to antimicrobial agents leading to infections, from which trend analyses can be derived and an early warning system can be established. finally, a downward trend in research into new antimicrobial agents has been observed in recent years, although research into alternatives would be particularly urgent in view of developments.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the socialist colleague said that this was not the right moment to raise this issue. we have been faced with a worsening human rights situation in tibet since 2008. it's gradually getting worse, more dramatic, and tibet is becoming more inaccessible to journalists, to tourists and to people who want to see what's really going on in this situation. the situation in tibet has reached a negative climax in the sense that the self-immolation of people should be a sign to us of how desperate this minority in the mountainous region of tibet is at the moment. the international community has not really noticed the worsening human rights situation. these self-immolations are acts of utter desperation, a last resort. this should be enough reason for us - i am deeply convinced of this - to find clear words in future meetings with the chinese representatives and to advocate an improvement in the situation in tibet, an autonomy with rights for the minority, as it is written in the chinese constitution anyway, but not implemented. that is why i cannot understand the attitude: not now, but perhaps later, when the situation has reached a corresponding dramatic level. we are obliged to make this a matter of concern in our relations with china. i beg you, lady ashton, to do so with all your vehemence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is very gratifying that we are again addressing the subject of human rights today. it is a pity that there are no more members of the house of lords to take part in this debate. it is all the more gratifying to see that today the young are represented in large numbers in the gallery. i would like to welcome the weinheimers and the kösener corps students to the gallery. when people start burning themselves, they have nothing to lose. it is the expression of absolute despair. the numerous self-immolations by buddhist monks and nuns in recent weeks should make us think. people want nothing more than to live their spirituality in peace. but brutal raids by chinese security forces, arbitrary arrests and abductions of monks, and a constant military presence in full combat gear make such a religious life de facto impossible. in addition, journalists and foreigners are prohibited from entering these regions. we must therefore urgently appoint a special representative for tibet who can and is allowed to enter the sensitive areas. the aim is ultimately to resume the dialogue between the chinese authorities and the dalai lama's envoys on the establishment of a genuine and serious autonomy for tibet within the people's republic of china.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the outbreak of the so-called "arab spring", peaceful demonstrations have also been taking place regularly in bahrain. however, the regime has reacted very brutally, and dozens of protesters have been injured and killed as a result. it is also a sad story that doctors who treated injured protesters according to their code of honor have been sentenced to 15 years in prison for anti-government activities. the treatment of the wounded is an obligation under international humanitarian law and bahrain is a signatory to the geneva convention. but it is not only the bahraini security forces who are to blame here, saudi troops, equipped with western weapons, were also involved in the massacres. it is therefore necessary to demand that bahrain consistently uphold human rights, that a genuine democratization process takes place. you also have to be careful not to cement sharia through the back door.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to delay this now, but i was a little surprised to hear the vice-president say that he did not accept what parliament might decide tomorrow. i have always understood that the commission proposes and parliament and the council adopt the laws. is that different, or how am i supposed to understand that?
i have to say, madam president, despite the congestion on the roads, despite the fact that people are stuck in traffic jams for hours a day, despite the fact that the use of railways is a major contribution to reducing co2, we have not been able to shift transport to rail for decades. in passenger transport, a simple calculation applies: the rail ticket must in any case be cheaper than the gasoline bill for the same route for one person. and this poor price-performance ratio also depends on the market structure. rail transport is a natural monopoly as a network operator. this is used to exclude other market players from competition. this, of course, limits its attractiveness to new operators, new services and ultimately to customers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. as regards decoupling, the commission should evaluate the results of the third energy package and develop meaningful options that also ensure an independent network operator.
ten years ago there were already worrying signs of stagnation in the railway sector. despite all the liberalisation measures taken at eu level, rail transport has not been able to catch up with other modes of transport. one reason may be that many countries have invested billions in road infrastructure, while rail funding has been neglected. however, the high cost of rail infrastructure compared to other modes of transport is one of the main obstacles to combined transport. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new eu-turkey association agreement. the baltic-adriatic axis is an international and economic lifeline to meet the infrastructural development of the transport flows that will shift from road to rail in the coming decades and to open up new potential between north-eastern europe and the adriatic region. the focus on crossborder passenger and combined transport must not, however, neglect regional connections. after all, there have been massive savings here in the last decade. if there is no regional connection to international and eu cross-border rail services, potential customers will be excluded. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the development of the railway sector in the eu.
i have to say, madam president, it makes sense for doctors, engineers and skilled workers in the single market to be mobile, working where they are needed. the recognition of professional qualifications must not, however, be accompanied by a loss of quality, i.e. employers need transparency, a meaningful picture of the training, courses and internships of those who have been trained. however, the skills market in the eu will not be solved by this alone, and certainly not by a graduation rate of 40%, as envisaged by the europe 2020 strategy. then the value of craftsmanship is devalued, the inflation of diplomas is boosted, and thanks to bologna we have thousands of bachelor graduates without work. in the eu, the demand for labour is not matched by the skills of the citizens. we must urgently tackle the shortage of skilled workers and the brain drain, otherwise the brightest minds will wander away from us and the skilled workers will go to the industry in third countries.
i have to say, madam president, the mutual recognition of professional qualifications is of paramount importance for the achievement of the free movement of workers in europe. conversely, the non-recognition of professional qualifications is often done for strategic reasons, namely to enforce the lowest possible remuneration, so that the applicability of collective agreements is ultimately obscured, in order to cover up the fact that the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place' should or must be respected. i'm from the east of austria. there are many cross-border workers here, workers from slovakia, hungary and the czech republic, and often excellent qualifications have not been recognized. this creates a lot-lose situation for all workers, namely those who come to austria with excellent qualifications, whose qualifications are not recognised, and on the other hand, of course, a corresponding pressure on austrian workers. in other words, the principles which the report is now seeking to achieve - transparency, simplified recognition procedures and voluntary professional licences - are ultimately good means. i hope the commissioner will take up these points and tackle the problems i have outlined.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a history of many, many lazy compromises. and out of these compromises have come a lot of deficits. when i demonstrated in 2008 in vienna at the ballhausplatz against the lisbon treaty, my argument was that this treaty cemented these deficits cemented for the years to come, if not for the decades to come. and that is exactly what is happening now, as we can see in the debate on the amendment of the treaty. still, this is certainly not the time or the place for gloating. we should look to use this crisis to bring about profound change. that is why i say clearly and emphatically yes to a european convention, yes to a convention elected directly by the citizens, yes to a right of initiative for the european parliament, yes to a court of subsidiarity, yes to more democracy and above all to referendums for the outcome of this convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with all the naive euphoria over the arab spring, the eu should also open its eyes and do something about the ongoing violence against coptic christians. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is therefore necessary to act quickly. this means very clearly: the appointment of an eu delegation to record, document and publish the unjustified attacks, the juxtaposition of development aid and bilateral trade agreements with respect for religious freedom, the eu's military assistance must never be used for violence against civilians. this needs to be evaluated and the assistance should be discontinued if necessary. the eu is urgently called upon to ensure that the so-called arab spring in countries such as egypt, tunisia, etc., actually develops into young democracies based on the principles of tolerance, human rights and the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is obvious that the health of bees is not given the importance it should be given in times of crisis, but this is wrong. albert einstein once said that mankind could survive for four whole years without bees. the disappearance of bees affects agriculture, rural development, food production, the conservation of biodiversity and, ultimately, our lives. here is the failure of the bees, and now i'm talking about austria, in some regions of austria, 30%. so it's important to do some research. i am therefore in favour of such research and studies, but this must not be the only step. we need concrete controls through agricultural subsidies and a strict authorization procedure for plant protection products. because it's not just the varro moth that's killing honeybees, modern agriculture is a big contributor. therefore, increased financial support should be provided for research to improve bee health, for prevention, for effective and standardised medicines in the member states and for alternatives to clinical insecticides.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much for allowing me to speak again. the commission is not prepared to accept this proposal. i would like to begin by thanking peter simon for the way he has worked across the political groups and, above all, for his great commitment to his report. the commission was invited to submit a communication containing measures by the end of 2011. i come now to the "but" which peter simon has also mentioned: of course parliament should also be involved in the legislative process under article 14. the commission is constantly calling for transparency from all parties involved and, in contrast, is seeking to make its views known in its political positions through the rapid voting process. but europe is lived at the local and regional level. it is therefore very surprising that it is the people in the regions and the local decision-makers who are often attacked with the pointed fingers by the commission's policy, who are marginalised. the present community framework interferes with the definitional and organisational sovereignty of the member states. and in that respect i would like to draw attention to the principle of 'united in diversity' - united in the wonderful diversity we have in the european union - and to ask the commission to take article 14 and the possibility of living together into account.
i have to say, madam president, 2010 was not only the year of poverty reduction, but also the year of the euro crisis, and the development of the euro crisis is a poverty trap for the whole eu. the path we have taken, namely to transform the eurozone into a transfer union, will soon include and follow the net contributor countries. in addition to the obligations of the maastricht criteria, some member states are liable for the debts of others. this means that the social belt will also have to be tightened, as is to be feared. and not just in greece and the crisis countries of the south. but the eu clearly did not have this development in mind when it was putting together aid packages one after the other. the declarations of intent also contain little mention of concrete measures. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we must finally recognize that parenting or caring for family members is a valuable service to our society and as such must be paid for. we need tax relief through family tax splitting, the higher the number of persons in the household, the lower the tax rate. the second is to make it easier for parents to return to work, and the gradual reduction of additional costs should be more favourable to employers, precisely in order to employ people who have children. it is not big words or years of poverty reduction that will solve the real problems. instead, we need to actually tackle poverty and make sure that high-performing countries, middle-income families and older people are not dragged into this vortex.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having negotiated good compromises, despite massive opposition and many amendments, to produce this important report with effective measures to combat poverty and social exclusion. many eu citizens are acutely poor or at risk of poverty, and the crisis is exacerbating this deplorable situation. in austria alone, 12% of the population is at risk of poverty - half of them are manifestly poor. in most member states, where the social welfare system is not as developed, the situation is even more dramatic. it is our responsibility to provide these people with a way out. the commission has therefore proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment. the most important is to strengthen the welfare state and ensure that public services are of high quality and accessible to all. but it is not enough to combat the effects of poverty. the first is to find concrete strategies to prevent poverty. the report recognises the special needs of the most vulnerable groups: by recognising that the priority of tackling child poverty is prevention, this report makes an important contribution to long-term sustainable development in order to achieve one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - to reduce by 20 million by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty.
although the european union is one of the richest regions in the world, it is a matter of grave concern that more than 80 million people in the union are at least at risk of poverty. the fact that 20 million of them are children is particularly worrying. 2010 was the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion'. the theme was chosen to reaffirm and further advance the eu's objective of reducing poverty. real progress in this area can only be achieved if there is a will to act together with mutually supportive and complementary measures at all levels .
i am referring to the agricultural products which have been used in recent years, in some cases illegally. the commission recovered eur 214 million of agricultural funds under the annual clearance of accounts procedure. these were used improperly by the member states. interestingly, the largest correction needed was a direct payment of 125.8 million, and sweden was included alongside greece with 10 million and italy with 79 million. the question i have therefore to ask myself is: have these countries already repaid the aid and, if so, is there a corresponding period for its settlement?
i thank you, commissioner, for your kind offer to obtain documents here. it is very gratifying to hear that there is concrete work being done here. however, i have a further question: what specific improvements are envisaged and planned by your department in the area of irregularities and controls in the cap from 2013 onwards?
in writing. - in the proposal for a directive on the coordination of safeguards which, for the purposes of the formation of a public limited liability company, are required by member states of companies incorporated under public law and of companies whose capital is maintained or altered, the european parliament proposed two amendments concerning the revision of the minimum capital required for the formation of a public limited liability company. i agreed to it.
in writing. the 1974 convention deals primarily with questions of safety and liability which may arise in the carriage of passengers and their baggage by sea. the convention was revised by the protocol adopted in 2002 in order to regulate more efficiently the areas of liability in the event of the fault or negligence of the carrier, compulsory insurance for the transported persons and the right to assert claims arising directly with the insurer. the member states retain the right to regulate independently all aspects not covered by the protocol. in addition, higher liability limits may be established. since articles 10 and 11 of the protocol cover matters relating to the areas of judicial cooperation in civil matters within the meaning of article 81 tfeu, those provisions will be dealt with in a separate act. there is no doubt that accession to the protocol will create a general legal framework which will harmonise the rights of persons carried on maritime transport in a positive way and thus represent an improvement on the current situation. however, some of the provisions are unclear, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea of 1974 dealt mainly with the safety of passenger ships and various passenger rights. however, the nature and extent of the liability of carriers and the minimum insurance requirements were not sufficiently regulated in the 1974 convention and the 2002 convention was amended by a protocol accordingly. in 2005, the european commission proposed a further amendment to the protocol, which further standardised the liability of carriers in the event of accidents (updated in 2010). the eu hereby becomes a party to the athens convention. i agreed to it.
in writing. − articles 10 and 11 of the athens convention govern jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in a member state. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement will replace the existing bilateral agreements that individual eu member states have concluded with jordan in this field. the aim is to create a level playing field for airlines in the 27 member states. the commission notes that the jordanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the services provided by the airlines in question are in fact provided by jordanian airlines. the main objectives of the agreement are to gradually open the market in terms of route access and capacity, to eliminate discrimination and distortions of competition, and to align jordanian aviation legislation with eu legislation in areas such as aviation safety, security and air traffic management. the agreement is the next step in the development of the 2002 association agreement, which has as its stated objective the creation of a free trade area between the eu and jordan. for the reasons described above, a common aviation area is expected to bring significant competitive advantages for the european airlines involved and a substantial improvement in travel conditions for end-users. i therefore voted in favour of concluding the agreement.
in writing. − the bilateral air services agreements between individual member states and third countries are brought together in an agreement where the eu replaces the third countries as contractual partners with the individual member states. the aim is to gradually open up the market to reciprocity in terms of route access and capacity, and to ensure compliance with eu legislation, in particular with regard to safety rules, including in jordanian aviation law. the consumer benefit is estimated by external studies at eur 30 million. the aim is also to establish a common euro-mediterranean airspace. i agreed to the deal.
in writing. − the mutual market opening will allow for non-discriminatory participation in the aviation space, and in future all air carriers will be able to offer their services in the eu and in georgia. the consumer benefit is estimated by external studies at around eur 17 million. i agreed to it.
in writing. the economic situation in the autonomous community of the canary islands is severely affected by a long-term downturn. the canary islands and the european union hope that the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports into the canary islands will strengthen the competitiveness of local operators and thus stabilise the employment situation. end-use controls are intended to ensure that the goods imported duty-free are actually used by local enterprises on the islands and that there is no competitive consumption. the canary islands must also be able to use raw materials, parts and components intended for industrial processing and maintenance. it is to be feared that the dismal economic situation in the canary islands will be difficult to overcome without the help of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the canary islands are able to comply with the community's economic recovery programme. the measure will also have an impact on the european union's revenue, the extent of which is yet to be estimated. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. the proposal is to suspend temporarily the common customs tariff for the canary islands on the import of certain industrial products. the aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of regional economic operators and thus improve the employment situation in europe's peripheral regions, as already envisaged in the european economic recovery programme. in order to avoid distortion of competition, the duty-free goods should be subject to end-use controls, i.e. verification that they are actually used by canarian companies. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the iter nuclear research reactor management already indicated in 2009 that the costs of the iter reactor could increase by up to 100 per cent. the euratom research funds originally earmarked for this purpose in the eu's seventh framework research programme would not have been sufficient for the iter nuclear research reactor. the cost of building iter is estimated at eur 6.6 billion. according to these estimates, the contribution from the euratom budget would be around eur 5,3 billion, with france contributing around eur 1,3 billion. therefore, the euratom budget should be increased from the current eur 2,15 billion to around eur 5,3 billion, i.e. by around eur 3,15 billion, to make up the difference. the extent to which cooperation with the international energy agency (iaea) should be extended is highly questionable in view of its proposals for fukushima, such as lowering radiation levels. nor are there any 'future' nuclear power plants. i therefore reject this report in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. − for the 2012-13 european atomic energy community work programme, criteria are provided for evaluating proposals for indirect actions and selecting projects. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the member states and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the union. the safety, performance, resource efficiency and the objectives of the medical and industrial applications of radiation are dealt with in this proposal, as are the safety of nuclear installations and the disposal of radioactive waste. i am opposed to nuclear energy as such and since this proposal refers specifically to the iter project and highlights its new european dimension, i have rejected the report.
in writing. − after a detailed analysis of the national insolvency systems, a categorization of those areas in which harmonisation is currently both sensible and possible has been drawn up. the proposal also contains suggestions for intensifying cooperation between administrations and the proposal for a european insolvency register. i agreed to it.
in writing. − for decades, a massive demographic shift has been taking place, with far-reaching consequences for the social fabric and massive economic impacts. the trend towards social integration is not yet as strong in the new eastern eu member states as in the old eu countries. the demographic change will certainly change the political, social, societal and economic situation in europe in a decisive way. the orphaning of entire areas of the countryside shows what will happen to rural areas in the future if the emigration of young people cannot be stopped. by now, it should be clear from initial studies of the costs and benefits of immigration that mass migration cannot be the answer to demographic change. the massive cuts to rural infrastructure, for example in the name of postal and rail liberalization, and school closures are further accelerating this emigration trend. as long as basic infrastructure conditions are not met, structural aid cannot reverse the trend. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. the report considers demographic change as a continuous change requiring appropriate responses at political level, and is to be supported at european level by means of the structural funds. the increase in the average age of the european population is putting a strain on pension, health and care systems. measures are needed to channel the resurgent exodus and to relieve congested infrastructure in urban areas.
in writing. − by adopting the regulation on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps, the european union is seeking to harmonise the restrictions on short selling that have been imposed individually by the member states. credit default swaps are insurance against the default of loans and government bonds. however, you can now buy these insurance papers without being a creditor or a holder of government bonds. in this case, it is even advantageous if a company or a state cannot meet its payment obligations. finally, in this case the sum insured is paid to the holder of the credit default swaps. it is clear that these two financial instruments can contribute to increased instability in the markets, especially in times of financial and economic crisis, and therefore need to be subject to restrictions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union. i have therefore given my consent.
in writing. − short selling can intensify the downward spiral of stock prices, especially in financial instruments, in times of considerable financial instability. this creates systemic risks, jeopardises the viability of financial institutions. there is no specific eu legal framework for dealing with short selling issues, so the measures taken by member states during the financial crisis varied widely. in order to improve the functioning of european financial markets and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, a common legal framework should be established for the rules and powers relating to short selling and credit default swaps and a higher level of coordination and coherence between member states should be ensured with regard to exceptional situations requiring action. in addition, it is appropriate to choose the form of a regulation, as some provisions directly require private operators to report and disclose net short positions and uncovered short sales in certain instruments. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted for the canfin report because, after lengthy negotiations with the council, the european parliament has succeeded in reaching an agreement and in achieving improvements in the sense of stricter regulation of short selling and credit default swaps. the eu parliament was able to convince the council of its position on many points in the trilogue negotiations. the trade in uncovered credit default swaps on sovereign debt, which have also boosted the sovereign debt of greece, portugal and spain and, more recently, italy, is severely restricted and only allowed with the approval of the european securities and markets authority. i have long been puzzled as to why the council has hesitated so long in the negotiations on this subject. at the beginning of the negotiations the council advocated a minimum, unambitious regulation of short selling. the negotiating skills of the eu parliament delegation in the trilogue negotiations are a major step forward in the fight against risky speculation. i also welcome the fact that this regulation will enter into force quickly, as a result of the agreement reached at first reading, and not be negotiated for another year or two. action is needed - and it must be swift and effective!
in writing. the proposed regulation provides a comprehensive framework for credit default derivatives. short selling of securities is attributed a not insignificant contribution to the current financial situation. clear guidelines on cooperation between esma and national authorities, backed up by a comprehensive transparency regime, including the restriction of uncovered short selling, are needed, starting from the broadest possible scope.
in writing. - it is important to revise the 1979 regulation providing for statistical surveys to determine the production potential of certain permanent crops, particularly in the wine and fruit sectors. the aim is to standardize and simplify the establishment of an information system on the main permanent crops at european level. this legislation has helped to create national systems for the survey of the entrepreneurial production potential of these crops and of the structural characteristics of the production units. the aim of the proposal, which i support, is to update, simplify and optimise the legal framework.
in writing. − the proposal aims to update the legal framework for european statistics on 'sustainable crops' and adapt it to the needs of users and the market. the data contained are used as a criterion for production, the reliability of the data must be optimized accordingly. i agreed to it.
in writing. - in the proposed amendments, parliament calls for increased 'investment in human capital and measures to avoid the risk of a shortage of skilled workers in the coming years (e.g. funding for nuclear researchers) and the consequent loss of the union's leadership'. in this context, as in the case of the basic research mentioned by the commission, greater attention should be paid to nuclear safety in the light of the recent nuclear disaster at fukushima. reports of outsourcing of safety maintenance to outside companies and of preventing workers from reporting safety deficiencies are a matter of urgency. the proposed reinforcement of the networks of radioactivity monitoring systems is to be welcomed. however, coordination and cooperation at eu level are still lacking in this respect. many problems of nuclear power, such as the disposal of radioactive waste, but also better management in the event of nuclear disasters and, for example, decontamination of contaminated soil, etc., remain unresolved. in view of all these problems, and since i am against the promotion of nuclear power, i rejected the report.
in writing. - the continuous improvement of nuclear safety and reliability of nuclear power plants is essential in view of the fukushima nuclear disaster. the amendments proposed by parliament for this programme are designed to promote the mobility and training of researchers and to promote innovation, which is in principle to be welcomed. the report calls for special attention to be paid to nuclear safety and security. the report calls for more support to be given to monitoring the quality and efficiency of training and to coordinating existing nuclear energy training programmes in the union and in candidate and neighbouring countries. the european union is on the right track and is putting emphasis on nuclear safety. i am, however, opposed to the promotion of nuclear power as a matter of principle, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - as the direct actions in respect of the specific programmes to be implemented under the work programme are not limited to the areas of safety of nuclear activities, non-proliferation and environmental measures, i rejected the report.
in writing. − the 2012-13 framework programme is designed to complement other eu research policy actions and to support the areas of training, innovation and employment under the europe 2020 strategy. the aim is to achieve the innovation union in the field of nuclear energy and nuclear safety. i am against further funding for nuclear activities and therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications has been seriously flawed, and the free movement of highly qualified workers is of enormous importance for a competitive internal market. the recommendations in the report on simplifying the recognition process and on comparative studies to assess the equivalence of competences and qualifications are important improvements to the framework. the essential thing is to require the national authorities to inform the persons concerned clearly and competently about their non-recognition.
in writing. − in the face of increasing cross-border consumption, and with consumer protection often falling by the wayside, it is important to better target the eu's consumer protection strategy. in particular, food safety must be improved, misleading advertising reduced, cross-border fraud by advertising trips and the like tackled more vigorously and consumer law enforcement improved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not excluded from the market. and the extent to which the eu is actually interested in consumer protection is questionable, given the liberalization of packaging regulations which has led to all kinds of consumer misinformation. food safety is also still seriously lagging behind at eu level. the eu food authority is also frequently criticised, and the various gm labelling authorisations are contrary to the full eu consumer protection notice. i have abstained from voting on these contradictions.
in writing. - one of the main reasons why i voted for the report is to protect children from unsafe podcasts and from directly misleading advertising. in addition, private consumption is a key factor in the european single market, generating 56% of european gdp. it is therefore clear that consumer protection and legal certainty must be the commission's top priority when drawing up its consumer agenda. in addition, both consumers and traders must be informed of their rights. the report by mr triantaphyllides also highlights the role of private consumption in a sustainable and low-carbon internal market. this is essential if we are to meet the climate policy challenges of our time. the key here is that consumers have both sufficient choice and comprehensive information. i call on the european commission to take all these aspects into account in its initiatives relevant to consumers.
in writing. − the eu commission wants to publish a consumer policy agenda by may 2012 that goes beyond the scope of the 2007-2012 consumer strategy. this is to take account of the principle of the eu treaty that consumer interests must be taken into account in all relevant eu policies. the main focus is on the following areas: food, health and product safety; creating inclusive growth; reducing co2 emissions from local and regional food production; reducing inequalities among eu citizens (many cannot afford rent or a warm home); solidarity-based funding of social services accessible to all. in addition, the rights and interests of digital consumers must now also be taken into account in the legislation. i agreed to it.
in writing. - the number of online gambling sites is growing steadily. currently, around 10% of all games of chance (lottery games, sports betting, poker and bingo games) with a market volume of more than eur 10 billion in europe are played online, by telephone or via interactive television platforms. the legal situation varies widely within the eu member states, due to the principle of subsidiarity. while some countries have reservations about authorization, others have total bans and still others have a completely open and liberalized market. the lack of borders on the internet allows gambling operators from member states with open markets to be reached in countries where online gambling is prohibited. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter. however, when it is proposed to dismantle the black market by creating a legal online gambling service, the principle of subsidiarity is de facto undermined. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted for the report on online gambling because i believe it is important to prevent illegal online gambling. the provisions on the protection of minors and common consumer standards in online gambling are also highly desirable. the report takes account of the fact that the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. i am not in favour of harmonizing online gambling, but i am concerned that there can still be national restrictions because of the specific nature of gambling. the report calls on the commission to create uniform quality standards for national licensing models - which i think is desirable. austria is already setting high standards of consumer protection and is a good example of good practice.
in writing. − the european online gambling market has a market share of more than eur 10 billion rising. the fact that there is competing jurisdiction in this area means that the member states are largely independent in their decision to regulate their gambling market, which has naturally led to a number of significant black market activities. the rapporteur cites the french model as an example of a legal gambling service. the report also makes recommendations on measures to protect minors. i agreed to it.
in writing. − beekeeping is an integral part of european agriculture and is of great ecological and economic importance. but the sector is facing a major bee loss. the eu must now take a strong stance against the demise of bees and investigate the causes. bees play an extremely important role in pollination, and the disappearance of bees is a potential economic threat along the entire food chain. the report sets out the main priorities for research and control of animal diseases. i also support the call for more funding from the future eu research framework programme to be used to find out the reasons for bee mortality.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector provides income for some 600 000 people in the eu, 76% of food production depends on crop pollination and the economic output of this sector is around €15 billion per year. the industry is currently facing a massive bee mortality, the causes of which need to be identified quickly and decisively (for example, an efsa study from 2009 indicates that gmos are a major stress factor for bees). the main concern of the cap should be sustainable farming methods and the permanent exchange of scientific and technical knowledge between national authorities and beekeeping associations should be promoted across the borders.
in writing. − the so-called services of general interest are those services which the state considers to be of particular importance to the population and which, without state intervention and subsidies, could not be provided to all citizens in sufficient quantity. these include the running of hospitals, education, social housing and energy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted by the state to the airlines in question was in fact granted to them in the form of state aid. the commission assesses whether state aid meets these requirements on the basis of the four altmark criteria. it is clear that services in the areas just described are far too important for prosperity and social peace in the individual eu countries for the european commission to decide whether aid is efficient and cost-effective. it should be left to the member states to assess the subsidies they grant on the basis of their needs. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. − services of general interest are services which are considered by the state or public authorities to be necessary for all citizens, but which can only be provided adequately by state intervention, in other words: ensuring universal access to these services and high quality at affordable prices. in 2005, the commission set out the prohibition and control of state aid in the dawi community framework: the legal instruments need to be more clearly defined and the administrative burden reduced. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the eu is often described as one of the richest regions in the world, and billions are being spent on development aid in the so-called third world. at the same time, it is estimated that more than 80 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty. some of them in spite of being employed. in this context, we must be clear that the increase in so-called 'mac jobs' and the displacement of workers and employees into pseudo-independence is becoming an increasing problem. the eu has not yet addressed these problems. the fight against poverty is and remains, in principle, a national matter, which is why national reform programmes should be designed. a european platform would consume additional financial resources on the one hand and would also promote eu bureaucratization and centralisation tendencies. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − poverty has been high in many eu member states for many years and is increasingly affecting the economy. the public deficits are rising and european competitiveness is being reduced. one in three unemployed is suffering from longterm unemployment. i am in favour of the report's main point that the eu should play a leading and coordinating role in helping the eu member states to tackle the existing challenges and to combat poverty and social exclusion, but i am in favour of taking into account that the responsibility for combating poverty lies primarily at national level and i reject the report.
in writing. − while national governments have primary responsibility for poverty reduction and social exclusion, the union has a significant role in coordination and financing. the 'europe' project aims to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth. the european union is seeking to optimise the european funds on the basis of the information provided by the member states on their reform programmes and implementation measures. i agreed to it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president of the commission! we don't want to talk about the past. we are in a difficult situation and it is up to the commission and the european parliament to work very closely together, especially next year, to ward off the attacks that europe is facing today. the first attack is on the financial markets. the financial markets don't like us, or they like themselves and their own profits. mr president of the commission, i think it is absolutely essential that all the regulatory proposals, particularly those of commissioner barnier, be put forward quickly. i think it is important to continue with the financial transaction tax, because that would also involve a redirection of financial investment towards real investment, which is very important for growth. secondly, mr president, we are concentrating on budget deficits and on sanctions against them. this is an important aspect, but it is not the only aspect. when it comes to growth, as you said, there has to be a more general concept behind what growth is all about. we need investment. we also need the funds that remain in the budget, for example. we know very well that many funds are not called up from our joint budget. i am therefore expecting a proposal from the commission on how these funds can be used, particularly for investments in greece and other countries. thirdly, the institutional questions: there is a famous essay by an ex-green - or is he still green, i do not know - mr joschka fischer, who says: forget this europe. i do not want to forget this europe, with all its shortcomings and problems. the alternative to this, a division or a division of europe into the eurozone, with a euro-government and a euro-parliament and our parliament and our commission, is not acceptable. we reject that concept. this is not the way forward. the economic and political implications are too great. i do not exclude the need for special arrangements for the eurozone. but we have had enough of this division, this division and this division of europe, and we must go forward. it is only a common europe, and it is the european commission and the european parliament that are called upon to say so. some also say: forget the social question. that is not our position, particularly as regards the social elements. if we see the income and wealth gaps diverging -- this is also, with consumers, an important growth issue -- because more and more people at the top are getting higher salaries, those with low consumption inclination are getting higher salaries, and those at the bottom are getting relatively lower incomes. it is therefore very important to pay attention to this distribution issue. it is not just a question of the movement of .... but it is leading to anti-european right-wing sentiments in some countries, and i think we must all admit this. mr president, we are about to amend the treaty. many of us are very, very skeptical that this is the way forward. but one thing is clear. firstly, the community method must also be the focus of any change to the treaty. we must stand together for this community method. and secondly, it can't just be budgetary issues. there are other economic and social problems in this europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2012 work programme is about commitment. so, on to some very important points for me: the negotiations on the new mff now provide the opportunity to introduce own resources to relieve the burden on the member states and therefore on the european citizens. the financial transaction tax should therefore have been taken for granted. in addition, in the face of the continuing economic crisis, unemployment is a cause for concern, particularly among young people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. investments in new and sustainable technologies are also needed - including in the energy sector - to create new jobs, economic growth and a step towards achieving climate goals. president barroso, there are many steps, let us finally get down to business! let's do it
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. even if mr barroso flees the house and leaves us to continue the debate, it is clear that the commission's work programme for 2012 is not designed to give us hope in the face of the crisis. in a crisis that has long since affected not only national budgets but also people's confidence in the european union, and which threatens to become a crisis of european democracy. if we are to respond to the consequences of the hasty monetary centralisation by taking further steps towards centralisation - that is, by forming an economic government - then we must expel the devil with the beelzebub. the proposed amendment to the treaties will certainly have to be approved democratically in europe and in the individual member states. i am curious to see how this is to be achieved, for example by holding referendums on these amended treaties in the netherlands, france and ireland. a division of the eurozone is perhaps the real and genuine thing. this does not mean a division of europe, because we already have countries that are in the euro and countries that are not. we must have more europe, but not more centralism!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe will certainly be different after this crisis, the only question is which one. and above all, how do we get involved and how does the commission get involved? i believe that if we show the courage we need, we can also create more europe and, as i said, do what is expected of us. i would therefore ask the commission - and i regret to say that i find very little of it in your 2012 work programme - to be more courageous in its approach. let's look at the implementation area again. we're constantly creating new rules. if we had properly implemented the rules we created together, we wouldn't be where we are today. we have a maastricht treaty which sets clear limits on government debt, which sets clear limits on net new debt. if the commission had taken care over the last ten years to ensure that this was respected, we would not have had the loss of confidence that all the member states are now suffering from. the principle is not that countries have suddenly become very indebted, but that markets have lost confidence. and we, the european commission, are unfortunately responsible for this loss of confidence. that is why we must simply do what we do well, but also demand that the commission adopt a zero-tolerance policy in its implementation. the commission does not dare to point the finger where it really hurts. i'm from the environmental side. we have similar problems here. we have wonderful rules, only some member states do not follow them at all. we have fixed collection quotas in the electrical sector. now we have a new proposal for new collection quotas on the table. if we had implemented the old regulations properly, we wouldn't need this. that is why i must ask the european commission to show a little more of its flag here, otherwise i am afraid i will see black for this europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. climate and climate can be interpreted differently. we are talking about the weather factors today, and i think that if we are going to durban now, we should be aware of the circumstances in which we find ourselves. we have committed to achieving the decarbonisation of the world by 2050 at the latest. at the same time, we are in the midst of the worst economic crisis in decades. that means that we must actually achieve this restructuring of our economy without having to rely heavily on public subsidies and, above all, without actually being able to change the international price structure for important raw materials, in particular energy sources, because the big emitters such as china and the usa have already signalled their unwillingness to do so. this means, of course, that the challenges for europe are particularly great here, and i think that when we go to durban we should divide into two parts, what we can do here to set a good example, and what we can do in the field. on the inside, i have to say, i'm actually a little disappointed in the lack of ambition, especially in the adaptation, in the problems around water: too much water, too little water, floods and droughts. the commission could take further action here. we should also take a more decisive approach to f-gases - i hope that we will have an ambitious proposal here, especially next year - and i hope, commissioner, that you will be able to make your case here for mainstreaming in the area of the cap and regional policy. on the external front, i think we should implement cancún, and on the kyoto ii front, i must ask that we simply get to where we want to go by improving the quality of the project, that is, by actually achieving these effects.
in writing. fossil fuels are still subsidized worldwide at $409 billion annually. and some of it from pots that were supposed to be for climate protection! coal is considered the most climate-damaging fossil fuel. nevertheless, new coal-fired power stations are being built all the time, especially in china and india. the international climate funds provide the paradoxical incentive: it is argued that without the subsidies, more emission-intensive power plants would have to be built. chinese companies are making millions in subsidies. the same game was played with funds for the disposal of climate-damaging refrigerants. until it became clear that the production in china was boosted extra for the subsidies! if we want to be a global player, we must also take responsibility for the environment of our planet. subsidies which clearly fail to achieve their objectives must be stopped. it is not possible for europe to slow down its industry and at the same time co-finance coal-fired power stations in china and india!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the court of auditors presents the results of its good work in the 2010 annual report in the familiar manner. the court of auditors' negative audit opinion for 2010 is not surprising to long-time observers. this is a sign of poverty for the european union in these extremely difficult economic times, because it simply says that taxpayers' money is being misused or even wasted. the error rate in the eu budget is 3.7%, but it can be increased. the error rate for cohesion, energy and transport is 7.7% higher than in the previous year. the error rate in the cases examined by the court is 49%, i.e. one in two. we are talking about misuse of taxpayers' money in the billions. i therefore call on the commission to put an end to these abuses immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 243 cases detected, the main issues were incomplete forms and processing errors. it is also primarily a training problem. we should ensure that staff in the member states receive the right training and, here too, we should try to bring red tape and efficiency into these areas. we have seen that the european court of auditors reports on average three cases a year to olaf, so that it is clear that the focus is not on fraud but often on the many financial procedures. we have hundreds of financial procedures in the european union area in operation, which is overwhelming for many staff in the member states. i therefore ask the commission to consider setting up its own training programme here so that such formal errors can be prevented in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament is once again proving itself to be a dynamic and active force, today with the adoption of the european heritage label, whose primary value is to strengthen european awareness, as defined in the report of the committee on culture. at a time when crisis events are making it clear to more and more people that no single nation-state can cope with the challenges and problems of our time alone, the european heritage label is a clear signal to strengthen the sense of belonging of the citizens of the european union - with a clear focus on young people and also on critical people who are not yet convinced of the importance of europe for their own lives. each member state is invited to nominate two sites for the european heritage label that have played a key role in european integration. values such as democracy, human rights, intercultural dialogue, social market economy are at the heart of our culture and history, which we live actively. to understand these values, i will give two examples from my home country: one is ludwig van beethoven's home in vienna, where he completed the ninth symphony, from which the anthem of europe is derived. the second is the place on the border with hungary where the austrian foreign minister alois mock and his hungarian counterpart gyula horn cut through the barbed wire of the iron curtain, ending the decades-long separation between east and west. let us rejoice in this european heritage seal and make it a success for our europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what advice would we have given our colleagues in 1931 or 1938 when we were in the depression, when the financial markets were already breaking up democracies and when we were heading for war? two things would be necessary, two emergency measures: we need something like a transitional government. do what you have to do, quickly! don't let them slow you down. regulate every product, every institution and every player, as mrs merkel said! but a transitional government alone, which implements the emergency financial programme, cannot have a future if there is no emergency democratic programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should be advertising this now, that the situation has become so dramatic that a major rethink must be made before the right, before the national divisions, once again gain the upper hand over something that was already built.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need effective coordination of economic policies between the member states, because we want to see real action. the first is that clear definitions must be established in order to be able to deal with criticism on a general basis. because the fear of losing our heterogeneity, even though none of the elements that make us different are affected, is superfluous. we have had a common economic area for a long time. the commission's transparent analysis of national budgets is a benefit to citizens. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, we are europe. let's make it work!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european railway system is still dominated by monopolies, and different types of power, different track gauges and also different safety requirements are hindering the development of crossborder rail transport. the european parliament has therefore decided to revise the so-called railway package. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted, and that the market is not distorted. i therefore strongly supported this directive. this decision is also the first step towards a european railway market which is unified and therefore competitive. only when the barriers to rail transport are completely removed will europe benefit from the new rail corridors and the economy along these corridors be able to develop. what i want is that in the near future you will be able to travel across europe with a locomotive, a carriage and a ticket.
in writing. − the globalisation fund provides additional support to workers across europe who are suffering from the consequences of far-reaching structural changes in the world trade pattern. the programme finances measures such as vocational guidance, continuing training programmes, but also business start-ups and the path to self-employment. the commission has assessed that the application from ireland, whose construction sector has been severely affected by the financial crisis, meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and recommends that the budgetary authority approve the application. this will fully use up the increase in budget line 040501 and, in line with the egf regulation, leave more than one quarter of the annual ceiling of the egf available to cover the needs arising in the last four months of 2011. the fund may be used up to a maximum annual ceiling of eur 500 million. i agree with this use of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − the economic crisis has forced many smes in the construction sector to close their doors in ireland. the construction industry was booming before the crisis and made a significant contribution to ireland's gdp, and the closures have caused 4 866 workers to lose their jobs in a matter of months. 669 apprentices were also affected. the training measures have been coordinated with the local social partners and educational institutions and are being invested in a meaningful way in growth areas such as environmental technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − the financial crisis led to a massive decline in freight, which for austria in july 2009 was between 30% and 50%. for trucks with a gross vehicle weight of more than 3,5 tonnes, traffic decreased by 17% in the first half of 2009 compared to the same period of the previous year. this downward trend continued in 2010 with the result that many austrian hauliers had to lay off employees. the decline in consumption and the reduction in goods production had a particularly severe negative impact on the transport sector, which was delayed compared with the core industries of the secondary sector. i am in favour of using money from the globalisation fund for the education measures to be carried out.
in writing. − road freight, which declined by 10% in 2009 across the eu, appears to be recovering more slowly than other freight sectors, with austrian road transport already considerably more affected in a europe-wide comparison (it fell by 3050% compared to 2030%), and the downward trend continued in 2010. this negative trend particularly affected small and very small haulage companies in upper and lower austria, which had to make 2 338 redundancies. the main target group is truck drivers who have not been able to successfully return to the labour market due to lack of qualifications, with 51 of the 502 people to be supported having long-term health problems or disabilities. the aim is to provide vocational training opportunities to remedy this, the proposed package of measures having been agreed with the sectoral social partners and being monitored by the state employment office. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − in 2010, aldi hellas announced that it would close all its stores in the regions of central macedonia and attica, which were hard hit by the crisis. however, aldi hellas has been loss-making since 2005 the company's financial situation was therefore already in a bad state before the crisis. i therefore refused.
in writing. − the european union's cultural heritage seal aims to increase the sense of belonging of european citizens to the union through common elements to raise awareness among young people in particular. the award of the cultural seal is based on criteria precisely defined by the commission. a jury of experts (12 members appointed by the commission, the council and the european parliament) examines the sites proposed by each member state in a pre-selection procedure (two per year, of which a maximum of one is accepted). member states undertake to maintain the sites in accordance with criteria defined by the commission. if these criteria are met, which are assessed by the jury, the seal is awarded indefinitely; if not, it is revoked after two warnings and a period of 36 months. transnational sites are given priority for selection, and sites already awarded the seal are reassessed. the report has my vote because the amendments pay much more attention to the added value of the seal compared to other initiatives in the field of cultural heritage and also to ensure that only the most outstanding sites are really certified.
in writing. − in march 2010, the commission presented a proposal for a decision on the european heritage label, which extends an intergovernmental initiative launched in 2006. the overall objective of the proposal is to strengthen the sense of belonging of european citizens and their sense of belonging to the eu by highlighting the common elements of history and cultural heritage and promoting intercultural dialogue.
in writing. − it is clear that there is still a great need to catch up in terms of investment in the expansion of the railway network and the attractiveness of rail transport compared to road transport. for this reason, the promotion of important projects such as the development of the baltic-adriatic axis should be pushed forward vigorously. this is the only way to ensure that the infrastructure developments of the transport flows, which will increasingly shift from road to rail in the coming years, are met. however, the proposed liberalisation of the european railway area is likely to lead to a concentration on crossborder passenger and combined transport, leaving regional connections behind. in this area, for example, there have been massive savings over the last decade. in addition, the liberalisation of rail transport, with a focus on the main attractive routes, risks starving rural regions. i have spoken against the report because these developments must be counteracted.
in writing. − although rail transport was reformed in 2001 with a targeted package of rail transport measures aimed at making this transport route more attractive, rail freight transport has declined significantly and now has a market share of only 10.8% (compared to 45.9% for road freight). the obstacles to effective reform are the legal deficiencies (in 13 member states, the implementation of certain parts of the package of measures had to be challenged before the ecj), the technical shortcomings (due to low investment in the appropriate infrastructure) and, last but not least, the lack of political will to achieve a real change in the status quo.
in writing. − over the past hundred years, the average air temperature near the ground has risen by about 0.74 °c. we know this because temperature measurements have been made for well over a hundred years. in the last fifteen years, the more or less scientific view has become established that the recorded temperature increase is due to man-made co2 emissions. european leaders are blindly following this dogma and want to commit eu member states at the 2012 durban world climate summit to make european industry and economy much less carbon-intensive. the fact is, however, that there is no evidence whatsoever of man-made climate change. it is also a fact that our climate has always been subject to more or less strong fluctuations. the figures and figures put forward by the european leaders are simply theories, but they have been declared to be the ultimate truth. this is also the reason why the many dissenting scientists and critical voices in both politics and the media landscape today are hardly penetrating or are called dubious. the eurocrats are not concerned with important measures to protect the environment, but with a targeted, profitable scare tactic. that is why i have refused to support the motion.
in writing. − climate change is one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century and must be given the highest priority. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is important that the eu speaks with one voice. but it cannot solve the global climate problem on its own, and it requires productive international cooperation. the current debt crisis must not be allowed to overshadow climate change objectives. rather, successful climate change policy also contributes to a healthier economy and can be linked to innovation and the creation of green jobs. i agreed to it.
in writing. − while the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, the millennium development goal commitment to achieve an interim target of 0.56% by 2010 has not been met. last year, the rate was only 0.43% of the gnp of the member states. the aim was to reach a rate of 0.7% by 2015. the fact that the funds to be allocated to development aid are measured as a percentage of gnp does not explain the failure to achieve the objectives of the economic crisis. the least developed countries, in particular, where poverty is still the order of the day, need the financial help of the western world to be able to counter it consistently. i abstained because trade-related aid was at least 3 billion euros, well above the target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. − in principle, i welcome the new accountability report on financing for development as an opportunity to identify and target effective aid instruments and to expose ineffective aid as such. the eu is the world's largest donor of official development assistance, but its pledges to contribute 0.7% of its gni to development assistance by 2015 are unlikely to be met. as the motion for a resolution rightly states, a fundamental change of policy (also in the developing countries) would be required to tackle the structural causes of poverty. the report also calls for the removal of these obstacles to be the main objective of eu development policy. the resolution reiterates the concern over the continued acquisition of agricultural land by foreign investors and calls on the member states to continue to step up their efforts and also to seek political dialogue with emerging countries on development cooperation. i agreed to the position.
in writing. the report also stresses that the european cinema can be seen as a form of identity building. this means that films produced in europe can be used to address issues that can and should be the subject of subsequent discussion. the economic factor is an important aspect of european cinema. european productions thus bring money to the member states during the shooting process and also make a great variety of regions known. in 2010, 1203 films were produced in europe, compared with 754 in the us. european films accounted for 27 percent of the billion cinema tickets sold. however, rapid technological advances (digital, 3d, etc.) are forcing some small cinemas, especially in rural areas, to close because they cannot finance technical conversion or upgrading. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. i did not vote for the report because i believe that this issue should be taken up at national level, not at european level.
in writing. - cinema as a cultural instrument means the expansion of knowledge, perception, imagination and, consequently, of one's own thinking and the ability to express one's own opinion. however, the switch from analogue to digital is financially difficult for small independent cinemas and therefore the proposal to set up demonstration companies that enable cooperation between these cinemas should be supported.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. thank you for your detailed report. in fact, as you and mr brok have mentioned, we are in a difficult economic situation together. in europe it may be more visible, but in the united states of america it is also clear. it was a bit sad at the g20, if you believe the information, how some countries - argentina, etc. - have now taught us to do our homework. we used to be the ones who taught the others. we are now being taught by others, and this must make us and our citizens think that we are really doing all we can to put our economic situation in order. but what we can certainly do together with america is to form innovation communities in different fields. in our resolution we are cutting back on this, for example in the energy sector. we are still much better than the americans in the field of energy saving and energy efficiency, but we can still do research together here. or, for example, in the field of rare earths - and i assume the honourable member will speak about this - there are a number of ways in which america and europe can act together and also make a global mark. thirdly, commissioner, i ask you to insist that we also discuss the question of international regulation, the regulatory framework. we know in the financial markets that whatever we can do in europe, we must do. but unless we work with the americans in at least some areas and then work together to convince china and others that we need more regulation - especially in the financial markets - that won't work. i mean, that includes the financial transaction tax. i know, it's not even out in europe yet. but this is also an issue that needs to be discussed in the dialogue with the united states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. as far as the middle east is concerned, we have been let down by the united states of america on many occasions, especially last summer when several parliamentary delegations were in the united states and we realised that catherine ashton would not have received full support until much later, when it was already too late. the whole question of palestine could have been handled better at the united nations. but what we as a group absolutely reject and criticize is the behaviour of the united states, particularly in relation to unesco. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the middle east, and it is not the council that is responsible for the negotiations. the european union should also say this to the americans at the summit, loud and clear!
the commission has already done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after all, we europeans have second-class privacy compared to americans. i also think it is clear that the us plans for a trans-pacific partnership will certainly have an impact on transatlantic relations and a whole series of eu agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external relations are not affected by the us-china rivalry. the current complaints from southeast asia about beijing's involvement in territorial conflicts may soon be replaced by complaints about washington. the eu should then be able to score as an impartial mediator. the european union must take a clear stance on the dispute over iran's controversial nuclear programme, which cannot be resolved by military means. the so-called preventive military strikes are in breach of international law and must be rejected. in view of the growing threat of war, brussels should act as a moderator on all sides - from israel to iran to the us, the uk and france. as a consequence of the iaea report, i believe that the only appropriate response is tougher sanctions by the international community.
i have to say, madam president, mr lambsdorff, we have elections in america in november next year. how do you assess future fiscal policy if the democrats or the republicans win? what do you think the change in strategy in europe will mean for the american elections then?
i have to say, madam president, i'm afraid i'm gonna have to go back to the old "catch the eye" theme. the united states summit on 28 november is not just any issue, not an orchid issue, but a very important issue. it is therefore incomprehensible that there is no longer any time for 'catch the eye'. secondly, madam president, for you and your predecessor, it is incomprehensible that tolerance is being shown here when speakers are overrunning their time by 30 to 40 seconds - i have noted it exactly - so that there is no time left for those who are sitting here and who may wish to speak at catch the eye. i'm allowed to deposit again, it's not fair. and i think that the colleagues who like to talk about solidarity but who are 40 seconds over their time are also acting inappropriately. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. net neutrality requires providers to treat all internet traffic equally, without controlling it. however, some network providers try to exploit their position to exclude other market players, such as internet telephony. access for external providers is deliberately throttled to avoid endangering domestic telephone services. this, of course, restricts competition and freedom of expression. we therefore need guidelines for the mobile phone market to ensure net neutrality there too. the second is that there should be more transparency for the end user, i.e. information on providers and services, because advertising and reality are often at odds, especially with the speed of the internet. thirdly, and finally, every user should be able to switch to a new provider without any problems.
mr president, commissioner, and representative of the polish presidency! the internet is the continuation of the analog world in the digital one, and therefore not the wild west. values, rights, democratic freedoms are as valid there as they are there. the guarantee of network freedom includes preserving the technology and service neutrality of the internet infrastructure with regard to data, content and protocols to the greatest extent possible. our aim should or must be to prohibit access providers from discriminating against certain data content by transferring it at different speeds european and/or national. i do not necessarily trust self-regulation to be so far-fetched. the enforcement of these prohibitions should be effectively controlled by the appropriate authorities, and these should be equipped with appropriate control mechanisms, as is customary in the analogue world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am not a woman, but i am also committed to the cause of the roma. we heard some very good speeches. but, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, we wanted to know the facts, how you assess the current situation. because how many national strategies are there? what are these national strategies that you already have? what defects do they have, what defects do they not have? commissioner, you have thankfully mentioned the event we had in the european parliament. the civil society organisations have spoken very differently about the national strategies. they were absolutely critical of many national policies. you said you'd invite her to the monitoring. but how? are you going to organize an event in each country where you invite civil society and ask them how they actually see their national strategies? this is not the first debate. it's as if we have to sit here for the first time and be taught what the roma problem is. we know these problems. we want to see action and activity. i do not want to criticise you personally, but tell your staff who are writing the speeches that they should now give concrete measures and say where the mistakes are, which national strategies are failing, which ones are good. we also want to see good examples. it is not a matter of scandal with only negative examples. we have looked at things ourselves, we have seen good examples. it is possible to do something with the support of the european union. but the relationship between the money spent and what has changed in recent years is not acceptable. nor would the public understand how much money was spent and what came out of it. perhaps it is also because some ngos have received money, but it has not reached the roma. my final request is: next time, please be specific, facts and not generalities that we know. as i said, with all due respect to your personalities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i very much agree with the colleagues who have spoken already. cluster munitions are one of the cruelest weapons. imagine a child going around, picking up one of the colourful bomblets which explodes, thereby hurting them, taking away part of their body and leaving them severely injured. one-third of the victims are children. 60% of casualties get injured while undertaking normal activities – as recently happened in libya, as some of us have said already. many of us – parliamentarians, civil society and victims’ organisations – have struggled to get the oslo convention on cluster munitions signed in 2008. this ban on cluster munitions is in danger at the moment. right now in geneva, at the un review conference on certain conventional weapons, some non-signatories want to water down the convention via protocol vi and they want to water down humanitarian law and humanitarian international law. we cannot and will not let that happen. i would like to thank the commissioner and also the high representative – our foreign minister – for the very clear words she has said today. i would also like to thank all my colleagues in the five groups who have agreed on a very good resolution. we have had very close cooperation. i am convinced that the united voice of the european parliament, together with our foreign minister catherine ashton, will be heard in geneva by eu member states – those who have signed and ratified the convention and also those who have not yet signed – and by others who defend the struggle against this cruel weapon.
madam president, i would also like to commend and thank mr lisek for his report. it is a very good report, reflecting good cooperation with the various groups. for our part, the greens supported the report in the committee on foreign affairs and we will support it again tomorrow. i would like to highlight one issue that i find important. while i am, and have been, critical and have claimed that russia is responsible for occupying territories which are an integral territorial part of georgia, nevertheless we have to look into exactly what happened in 2008. the tagliavini international commission report is one that we have amendments to, and we want to include reference to that in the report. georgia also needs to show more cooperation with the international criminal court. i have here – and i have sent it to some of my colleagues today – a report by the norwegian helsinki committee which clearly states that the georgian authorities must pay more attention to what happened in the period before and after the activities and the war of 2008, and that they are at least – and i quote – both ‘partly unable and partly unwilling to conduct an effective investigation into international crimes allegedly committed during and after the august 2008 war’. condoleezza rice is quoted in yesterday’s newspapers in georgia as saying that georgian president saakashvili ‘alienated potential nato allies in 2008 by letting the russians provoke him into starting a war over south ossetia’. i do not know exactly what happened, but it has to be investigated. georgia also needs to be cooperative when it comes to war crimes and to allegations of human rights violations.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for having taken over this work from ms svensson, who i also miss very dearly at parliament, because of the very good work she has been doing. i hope the report will continue in the same manner with you, mr gustafsson, and thank you for what you have said. i very much appreciate what you said about the work having to begin at home. i remember when i came to parliament, and to the committee on foreign affairs, i realised there were only men on the presidency of the committee on foreign affairs. i thought to myself, ‘where am i?’, because i had been working in foreign affairs in the austrian parliament for a long time and i very often was the only women. however, given that gender mainstreaming has been such an important issue at parliament and at eu level for such a long time, we really have to start here to make sure that delegations are led by women and men in equal numbers. if we go to different parts of the world, be it neighbourhood countries or other continents, what example do we want to set? one where men still rule everything, or one where women are important? so, i very much appreciate the work of the rapporteur, and i hope and i trust as well in the presidency of parliament and at all levels, even in our own groups, that this work will continue and the plan that is being proposed will be put into practice, because we need to set a good example ourselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. during a debate on the roma question yesterday, mr claudio morganti made remarks which were also characterized by mr posselt as racist remarks. he has insulted a whole group of the population, the roma, extremely. i do not want to start a political debate now, but i would ask you, mr president, to have the minutes handed to you and to see whether this is not grounds for a warning or at least for asking mr morganti to retract his insulting remarks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have tabled a motion on behalf of my group, based on at least incomplete or partly incorrect information. i therefore wish to replace this request with the following oral request and hope that the honourable members will be able to agree. it then says:calls on the georgian authorities to refrain from using disproportionate political pressure against the political opponents of the government; recalls that a competitive and effective multi-party system is essential for the consolidation of democracy in georgia.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have to take note of that. i hope this is not a protest against the content of this motion, namely that you are against multiparty democracy, but i have to take note of that. (applause from the centre) i would just like to withdraw my first motion because mr lisek's report is a very good report. it should not contain any element based on false information. i regret that you reject the oral request, but i am withdrawing the original request so that it does not have to be voted on.
in writing. − the international criminal court, an idea born immediately after the end of the second world war, was finally set up in 2002 with the central task of investigating war crimes. the us has consistently maintained its boycott of the icc, and the support of the eu and its member states is all the more important and fully in line with the original idea on which our union today is based. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. the eu has a coastline of almost 70 000 km, surrounded by two oceans and four seas. 90% of the eu's external trade and over 40% of its internal trade is carried by sea. the eu's maritime economy is therefore a factor that cannot be neglected. in the future, the economic importance of the seas is even expected to increase, since they serve as a source of food and energy, are important as trade and transport routes and, consequently, are also tourist areas in coastal regions. the numerous uses should also be planned in an orderly manner to ensure the necessary environmental protection. i have abstained because i expect, as the rapporteur has also said, better clarity on the objectives of the programme.
in writing. − the integrated maritime policy (imp) is designed to support the coordination of maritime-related policies in the eu. the project will be implemented in the framework of the european solidarity corps. the imp has proven to be a sustainable approach for europe's marine and coastal areas, with successes in preserving marine diversity and sustainably securing europe's energy and food supply, and is now intended to provide a stable framework for future action by 2013. i agreed to it.
in writing. - in theory, research may have brought about greater nuclear safety. but safe nuclear power plants on paper are not reality. in this context, it should also be examined to what extent the suspicion that nuclear power plant operators outsource maintenance and safety checks and exert massive pressure on the staff to cover up defects has been reinforced. i am against this highly risky technology. instead of spending billions on this and thus artificially keeping it alive despite all the safety risks and the concerns about its profitability, the money spent on this should be better spent on developing alternative and future-oriented forms of energy. i have voted against the report on this point.
in writing. − in march 2011, the european commission presented a package of legislative proposals on nuclear research and training (20122013). the legislative package is intended to provide further support for nuclear research and development activities already carried out under the 7th european framework programme 2007-2011. in this vote i voted for a reform of the euratom treaty to strengthen the rights of information and to establish democratic control by the european parliament. i also voted for the amendment calling for nuclear disarmament. i rejected the report as such because of the additional funding for projects such as iter and the r & d programme, including the jet facility at culham research centre in the uk.
in writing. − given that the eu and the us together account for 50% of the world economy, a coordinated approach is needed, particularly in order to resolve the current economic crisis. the interconnectedness of our economies means that closer economic cooperation is the only way to restore stability and ensure prosperity in both regions. i therefore support the resolution's intention to develop a joint transatlantic initiative for growth and employment. i am critical of the proposed agreement on passenger data records between the eu and the usa. before taking further steps in this direction, it is necessary to ensure that the protection of personal data of european citizens is such that future misuse can be excluded beyond doubt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - on 28 november, economic policy, support for current developments in the middle east and north africa and the position on the renewed escalation of iran policy will be discussed in washington. since the eu and the us account for 40% of world trade and 50% of gdp, a common financial regulatory framework between the two partners would be ideal. the european parliament, in its replacement, supports the eu supervisory authorities taking a leading role in international cooperation. in the wake of the 'arab spring', the eu and the us must act together or at least in coordination. the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the open nature of the internet is a key element for competitiveness, economic growth, social development and the development of new innovations. it also provides for the free exchange of views and access to new knowledge. the exchange of information is being greatly accelerated by global networking. the internet is therefore of great importance to the world economy. in addition, more and more jobs can be created through the internet. the full potential of the internet requires a well-functioning internal market. i abstained because i believe that end-users still have too little control over their shared content and are too dependent on providers.
in writing. − net neutrality is not yet a topic of discussion among the general public, but this will change rapidly in the coming years, in line with society's increasing dependence on internet services. it is therefore appropriate to establish a common framework as a preventive measure to safeguard this freedom of information, consumer interests and pluralism for the future and to prevent anti-competitive behaviour. the resolution calls on the commission to ensure the consistent enforcement of the existing legal framework and to build on the net neutrality of eu internet governance. i agreed to it.
in writing. − at the initiative of norway, 46 states adopted the oslo declaration in february 2007, with the aim of achieving a global ban on cluster munitions by the end of 2008. as of 1 august 2010, the convention on cluster munitions (ccm) is in force, having been ratified by 38 states, with another 70 states in the process of ratification. the ccm prohibits the use of cluster munitions and their trade and calls on states to destroy the stock of cluster munitions. many of the major producers of these weapons have not yet signed the treaty, including brazil, india, pakistan, china, russia, and the united states. cluster bombs are a threat to civilians in particular, since unexploded submunitions are often found and detonated by innocent people. i voted for this resolution because i believe that every loophole, however small, which allows for the trade and storage or even the use of these lethal munitions must be closed.
in writing. − the eu has long been actively involved in mine clearance in third countries, which hampers post-conflict reconstruction. in the case of children who are injured mainly by explosive remnants of war, appropriate care is provided in appropriate education programmes. the resolution again stresses the serious dangers posed by cluster munitions and is firmly committed to further support for and implementation of the convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines. i agreed to it.
in writing. - i regret that i had to abstain in the vote on the joint motion for a resolution by several groups because its content was not made generally available.
in writing. − it is important that the eu-georgia eastern partnership further deepen relations, accelerate political association and advance economic integration. the eu should therefore continue to work towards rapprochement with georgia in the interests of good relations. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the rule of law, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the report is a little too uncritical in this respect. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the european union is committed to promoting 'gender mainstreaming' and is clear in its policy on anti-discrimination and equal opportunities. this report pushes for 'gender mainstreaming' in the work of the european parliament. i support the substance of the report and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the aim of 'gender mainstreaming' is to achieve gender equality at all levels of society. after the term entered international politics in 1995, the lisbon treaty committed the union to work towards taking into account and promoting the principle of gender equality in all its activities. i agreed to it.
in writing. - illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a problem whose global perspective has been ignored for far too long. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not deprived of its fishing opportunities. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the risks arising from the use of certain substances. illegal fishing can eventually lead to the collapse of a fish stock or seriously impair efforts to replenish already depleted stocks. the eu cannot - as the report rightly points out - end illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing on its own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the oceans are a common good and their conservation is our common responsibility. despite the three-digit annual allocation of millions under the 'common fisheries policy' in the 2007-13 financial framework, european fish stocks are in a miserable state today. obviously, the funds were not properly used. i therefore voted in favour of the idea of a 'european coastguard' being funded from this eu budget, in the belief that the time is almost twelve with regard to our seas. most of the proposals mentioned relate to good fisheries management. the commission is proposing a package of measures to improve transparency in the fight against illegal fishing, which is estimated to account for 15%. i am convinced that mandatory transparency rules and effective control instruments are a prerequisite for a successful fight against illegal fishing. i agreed to the report.
the commission has already done so. i think we should be careful not to make a blanket judgment. the iranian people have a right to democracy. i think we should look for individual guilt and bring the human rights violators to justice in the hague, so that it is clear which individuals are responsible for this misery. the sanctions against the people ultimately strengthen the existing lawbreakers, and that cannot be in the interest of the european union. we do not need the punishment of the innocent and sanctions against the innocent, but we need final judgments against the lawbreakers. our question must be: how can we support the democratic forces in iran? what can we do to help those who are on our side? i am waiting for a reply from the commission!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to inform you that i will be traveling to beirut in a few minutes for a conference and then to egypt where these issues are being discussed. i take it for granted that i will use the resolution and the speeches as the basis for my talks and reports. we have the situation where the arab spring is over, but the democratic spring has not yet begun. without a debate on religious freedom and human rights, without a constitution and elections that reflect these principles, we will not be able to move forward with more courage. so i thank you for these resolutions. you're an important piece of luggage to me. we can say again that the charter of fundamental rights is the basis for all the activities of all officials, wherever they are in europe, and is our guideline for the rule of law and democracy.
i have to say, madam president, our citizens are demanding effective action. the public is constantly being urged to act in a hurry, and this is especially the case with the rating agencies and the financial markets. they wonder, 'where else is there a real government?' as long as we allow the financial markets to have power, and even give it to them, politics will continue to be inert. we want to see concrete steps taken at this council summit in the interests of our citizens. they're the ones who are unemployed. let us invest in sustainable projects to strengthen the labour market by means of well-educated workers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, dear guests from croatia, led by mr luka bebić, president of the european parliament, and several members of parliament, as well as the chief negotiator and the croatian ambassador to the eu! i must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that i am happy and moved to be able to present my final report on croatia to parliament today and to ask for its approval for croatia's accession to the eu. it was a long and sometimes very difficult process. i had to deal with three prime ministers during these accession negotiations, ivica račan, ivo sanader and jadranka kosor, and of course many other politicians, such as vesna pusić, zoran milanović and milorad pupovac. all these politicians have shown great maturity across party lines and have recognised the need to act together on european issues. this is a good example for the other countries in the region. i would also like to thank the dedicated female shadow reporters. we had a wonderful partnership. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner füle, and, if possible, the council. it is only through a consistent policy on the european side that we have succeeded in working with the responsible politicians in croatia to ensure that croatia undertook the necessary reforms and, above all, began and later intensified cooperation with the international criminal court in the hague. it is not a question of revenge, it is not a question of european sentiment, but of the fact that only in dealing with one's own history can one correct the mistakes of the past. i never understood that as a criticism of croatia's self-defence, but only as a criticism that some people probably took advantage of this situation to commit war crimes. that is the decisive point, not the question of croatia as such. but much has also been done in the fight against corruption. for me, the fact that a former prime minister is on trial is not proof of how much corruption there is, but proof that in croatia the issue of corruption is being addressed and also fought accordingly. of course, judicial reform has also been carried out. substantial steps have been taken. there will be monitoring. i think that monitoring is also important because the commission will ensure that the reforms continue before accession itself. the efforts to integrate the serbian returnees were also very important. croatia has also done a lot in this area. i would like to thank in particular the presidents ivo josipović and boris tadić for having the courage to take joint steps, including the visit to vukovar. i was in vukovar a few weeks after the terrible destruction and i saw what human aggression can do when it is instigated by irresponsible politicians. but i also saw on my last visit that vukovar is full of people who are thinking about the future. i was there in a school shared by croats and serbs and i saw how they are ready to talk about the future. i had one of the best discussions on europe. the people of vukovar know what europe is about, whereas some of us no longer know what europe is about, namely overcoming hatred and strife. there in vukovar i looked across the danube, a river that is supposed to connect more and more people rather than divide them. the people of croatia have also understood this. in this context, i would also like to say that i am convinced that it is precisely on the basis of these considerations that croatia will do everything possible to open up the possibility of joining the european union to other countries in the region. neighbourhood policy is an important area. i would like to mention once again that i am very grateful that croatia and slovenia - and i would also mention the slovenian prime minister, borut pahor - have managed to overcome the long dispute and to start a process to overcome the border conflict and border disputes. in this sense, i regard the accession of croatia as an essential milestone in european unification. i hope that the council will be brave enough to take a step in the next few days with regard to serbia and montenegro, which will prove that the process of unification will continue even after the accession of croatia. i know that many in europe today are wondering whether enlargement is not the core and the cause of our problems. but neither has the constitution failed in the new countries, nor do the economic problems originate in the new countries, but rather in the old countries. in this sense, i hope that a broad vote tomorrow on croatia's accession will give a little hope and confidence. in the phase of pessimism - we have just had a discussion - and sometimes of defeatism, it is important to show that we believe in this europe. we believe in this europe together with croatia. we will also continue to build and defend this new europe together with croatia. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. these are good days for croatia and for europe. we are living in a europe of few good days, so let us at least celebrate this one, and the signing of the treaty of accession of croatia tomorrow and next week. i would like to congratulate the croatian government and all croats on behalf of the greens/efa group on all that they have achieved in recent years. the vote in the european parliament tomorrow and the signing of the treaty of accession next week will be the provisional culmination of a process which has lasted almost ten years. but the process will not be over. other reforms will also need to be pursued with unabated momentum: the fight against corruption, judicial reform, prosecution of war crimes by the croatian judiciary and the protection of minorities must remain at the top of the reform agenda. that is why the epp's unmentionable amendment for the vote tomorrow is going in the wrong direction. the epp colleagues want to remove the criticism of the violent riots this year against the pride parade of lesbians and gays in split from the resolution. we hope that a majority in this house will show solidarity and give courage to all those who stand up against prejudice, homophobia and dangerous nationalism. as the european parliament, we will also ensure in the coming years, in cooperation with the commission, that the commission clearly identifies the problems and that civil society is involved in the reform and review process in croatia itself in the coming years. the next government in croatia will have to do that, because only through a transparent process will it be possible to convince the croats themselves that reforms are possible. the process in croatia is also a momentum for the whole region and in this sense i wish the entire western balkans every success in its development towards the european union. welcome to croatia, thank you! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
mr posselt, i have read that very well and it is not, of course, a question of supporting the campaign in any way. but we think it was a failure of the authorities that the people of split were not really protected. that is why we are maintaining this criticism and hope that you will perhaps withdraw the motion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the decision-making process for croatia's accession shows tomorrow is the vote : these are good days, not just for croatia. these are very good days for the european union. for the european union as a project to unite the continent, as a project to overcome the violent division of europe, as a project of peace, freedom and responsibility for one another instead of fighting against one another, as a response to the crises we are experiencing and the challenges we are facing. the enlargement process is not complete and the deepening process must be accelerated. the economic and social union must be built and completed. we're dealing with nails with heads. in croatia and in the european union we must not rest on our laurels, but must continue steadily along the path of reform. in croatia and in the european union, there is potential for improvement in the fight against corruption and in respect for fundamental rights and in the necessary reform measures. it is no coincidence that we - mr swoboda, mrs lunacek, myself and our friend mr posselt - have been following croatia's path for years and that austria is one of the countries that was at the beginning of the process of recognising croatia's independence. we are bound by many things, economically, in terms of employment, culturally and historically. we are therefore pleased that this process of recent years has been successfully completed and that a new chapter can be opened. we hope that tomorrow we will all say a clear yes, a warm welcome to croatia and receive new impetus from each other to face the challenges of the european union together. the signal for the western balkans is also positive.
i have to say, madam president, after many bureaucratic hurdles, the accession negotiations with croatia have now, thank god, reached a positive conclusion. that is very welcome. croatia has made a lot of progress in the meantime, i am thinking only of the judicial reform in the country. but croatia is also urged to continue to consider, for example, the nuclear phase-out and closure of the krško power plant, which is run with croatian participation. it will also be important to respect the commitments on anti-corruption and border management for the balkan route. competition is, of course, also an open subject. the commission has really asked a lot of croatia, much more than the other candidate countries, while turkey is still being treated with generosity and generosity and tolerance, despite poor progress reports, and billions of euros of pre-accession aid continue to flow across the bosphorus. all this must be mentioned in this context.
in writing. it is very gratifying that after years of negotiations, croatia can now sign the eu accession treaty. this process was like the ante gotovina case or the maritime border dispute with slovenia paved with stones all the way. it will be important for the eu, but also for croatia itself, not to rest on eu accession as a stage-goal, but to implement the necessary reforms swiftly and to push forward the fight against corruption. the eu is also calling on the croatian authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the nuclear power plant in krsko, which is run with croatian participation, is shut down. the croatian negotiations in particular have once again clearly demonstrated the double standards that prevail in brussels. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the fact that reforms in turkey are mainly on paper and that ethnic and religious minorities such as kurds and christians suffer from constant discrimination does not seem to bother anyone in brussels. the negotiations with turkey must be more honest and the way must be cleared for a privileged partnership.
acting president of the council. - mr. speaker, the house! i had the opportunity to present a preliminary analysis of the first european semester a few months ago, but the results and the scale of the process are still unknown. the final assessment of the extent to which the present regime is living up to its expectations will only be possible once the national parliaments have finally adopted the draft budgets for next year. the whole idea of the european semester is to involve national decision-makers more in the process of implementing the priorities of the european union's growth and development. hence, the whole system initiated by the european commission in the annual growth survey, which sets out priorities which are then translated into individual recommendations for the member states, will only be effective if this information, these priorities, are properly communicated to national parliaments and national parliaments take all these aspects into account when adopting the national budget. we have some experience after less than a year of this process. today, the annual growth survey was presented at the ecofin council and here is the first conclusion that we have drawn together with the commission. the first conclusion is that the process of discussion and decision-making that has been designed so far has been too condensed in time. thus, unlike the first, this draft annual growth survey was presented more than a month in advance of the previous one, giving the council and other institutions, including the member states, more time to analyse and prepare their quasi-national responses to the challenges identified by the european commission. the time constraint was one of the first elements that emerged during the implementation of this process. commissioner rehn also presented two more draft regulations today during ecofin, which will improve the existing system that is currently being implemented. they increase the scrutiny, by the european commission in particular, of the procedure - i would prefer not to call it the budgetary procedure - for communicating the union's priorities and the way forward to national parliaments. these two regulations are limited for now to the euro area as the group of countries that currently have the greatest obligations in this area and the greatest challenge to improve the economic situation in the european union, to improve the situation of public finances. furthermore, what is very interesting and i think this is a very good initiative on the part of the european commission in both regulations there are clear indications as to the involvement of the european parliament in the process of discussing these priorities and how they are implemented by the member states. under the current system, it is not clear what this discussion is supposed to be about. both draft regulations clearly indicate that the relevant committees of the european parliament may invite representatives of the member states as well as the european commission to the debate. the european parliament will be able to discuss both the recommendations for individual member states and how they should be implemented. so, to sum up, we're talking about something that's being implemented for the first time. in many cases, mrs berès's remarks are very valid and correct. we all learn from this process and we evaluate its effectiveness on the basis of the results that come in to us on a daily basis, new information comes in every day, how individual countries read it and how individual countries implement the european semester. we are also seeing the results of the first discussion at eu level. the conclusions are drawn very quickly and an attempt is being made to streamline and deepen the process. at ecofin today, we made a commitment as the presidency to refer the next european commission initiatives to the relevant working groups as soon as possible, so that this process of implementing and improving the european semester can run as smoothly and as quickly as possible, to achieve the intended effect and improve the efficiency of the system and its transparency. thank you very much for your attention!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am glad to address this house today on the report by mrs berès and to say that the commission welcomes the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. i especially welcome the fact that, on a number of issues that are central to the effective and efficient delivery of the public good of economic surveillance, parliament and the commission share a common point of view. one example is the clear and shared recognition that a purely intergovernmental system of policy coordination would be inadequate to fulfil what is required of multilateral surveillance under the treaty. we need the community method for this purpose. the report also shows, to my mind, that we have a strong common understanding of the challenges that we are facing during this crisis and the direction that our response should take. it has to combine stability, growth and solidarity. the most telling example of this is the spirit of cooperation with which parliament has taken its responsibility regarding economic governance in the legislative process that led to the adoption of the six-pack legislation. the agreement between our institutions on the fundamental issues of economic policy coordination is all the more important at the present time as we face very substantial challenges for economic and financial policymaking. therefore i hope that we can repeat the success of the six-pack with regard to the new legislative proposals for further strengthening economic governance which the commission put forward last wednesday. the package of documents presented on that day reflects our commitment to closer convergence, stronger discipline and firm solidarity. on several occasions i have already stated that democratic accountability on european decision-making has to be increased – as mrs berès rightly underlined – especially if a greater degree of fiscal discipline and economic surveillance is to be conducted by the european union in relation to the member states. this is indeed extremely important and i believe that in parliament and the commission we see eye to eye on this critical matter. this is also the reason why i was – and remain – so supportive of the new economic dialogue. i look forward to our economic dialogue on the commission’s annual growth survey for 2012. this dialogue will be an excellent opportunity for parliament to express its views on the priorities for the economic agenda on growth, stability and governance. now, i recognise that not everything said in the report is necessarily flattering of how the first european semester in 2011 was conducted. i do, however, hope that you recognise that the annual growth survey for 2012 also reflects efforts on the part of the commission to take into account comments made in this house. let me conclude by saying that the introduction of the european semester in itself has been a major step forward and the 2011 experience has clearly shown improvements compared to economic surveillance done before. the six-pack will go much further and it is actually already having a practical impact because several member states are realising that they face the prospect of moving to the next step of the excessive deficit procedure, and also the possibility of financial sanctions, unless they take action in order to ensure that they meet the economic and fiscal targets of next year. i am certain that the next european semester in the first half of 2012 will be even better, that we will already have learned more lessons based on our experience this year, and that we will further improve our capacity for policymaking in a systematic manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem of competitiveness is one which the honourable member has rightly raised. however, in its implementation it has focused only on the possibilities that would exist around the structural and cohesion funds. my question to him is: is the source of the problems of competitiveness not much deeper, namely the concrete capacity of nation states and regions? and what, in his view, could be done if direct interference in national rights is not possible?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester is an incredible attempt at a sparring match that even the most talented artist could not sustain for long. it is not possible to say, 'everyone must be disciplined' and then not have the tools to bring them to discipline. with regard to germany, which is obviously suffering from the whole of europe, i would like to repeat what heiner flassbeck has analysed very nicely: it was precisely the success of the social democrats with agenda 2020 that led to the fact that there was no real wage growth in germany, which made the german economy even stronger than before in relation to the surrounding economies. the world economy has had almost no effect, because the only country that has really increased its market share in the last decade is china. if the germans had not succeeded in taking this position, we would now have a very different problem in europe, namely that we would all have been dragged down. now, of course, i can say: ok, i want the germans to earn more, that they are not as productive in terms of the unit of labor as the other countries. but is that the answer? i'm not going to. we are indeed in front of a burning house. i have confidence in the heads of government at the moment that they can quickly put in place the fiscal measures we need. the european semester can only be a step towards the goal of a genuine integration of common interests. there must be no taboo on tax policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the short term, the european semester will not bring us much more than a lack of understanding among the population, because they do not understand the context. but at least it's a forum for dialogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. instead of transferring more powers to brussels with the european semester and thus further centralizing the european union, i believe that we should prevent the debt from being created in the first place. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the economic collapse of the euro zone, especially in view of the debt crisis in which we find ourselves, and at all costs to avert the real danger that the economically still successful countries of the euro zone will be dragged into the abyss. the introduction of common bonds of the euro countries with a triple-a rating, so-called elite bonds, would only make sense if the european union did not become a debt union, a transfer union. this probably makes a division of the eurozone indispensable. the introduction of elite bonds may create facts that the european thieves will not be able to resist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament is keeping its eye on this report. we have taken a big step forward in implementing the six-pack and codifying the european semester. the european semester is an interim solution, an emergency solution, because we have failed to create economic and social union and political union with the introduction of the euro. let us quickly convene a convention to prepare for economic and social union! because we have not only failed to comply with the stability and growth pact, but we have also undermined it. the european semester is an emergency solution because the commission lacks many policy instruments to be an effective economic government. let us ensure that the violation of the stability and growth pact and the european objectives can be challenged before the european court of justice! let us ensure that the debt brakes in the member states can be accompanied by a veto of an independent committee on the public debt!
in writing. instead of finally giving a chance to weaker economies outside the euro, brussels is relying on a planned economy. economic and social policy - the core competences of a sovereign state - is now subject to the centralised supervision of the commission and ecofin. national reform programmes must be presented in brussels, 'inconsistencies must be detected at an early stage'. the council and commission recommendations are then to be implemented in the second half of the year. this system can't work! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. after that, the effectiveness of the recommendations in the last european semester is zero. why would you do that? growth cannot be forced by a centrally planned economy! we must now correct the birth defect of the eurozone and form a hard currency area. with sovereign states and a sovereign economic policy!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with a common currency and the resulting interconnected economies, it is only the responsibility of the member states to 'lay their cards on the table'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the presentation of national reform programmes should be a matter of course for elected representatives for reasons of transparency, and given that governments obviously expect a bailout from their european partners, the electorate of the creditor states also has a right to this transparency. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs thun and mrs hohenstein on the first internal market forum. this has to become a permanent institution. this must become a tradition of the european union, the engine of the internal market! the single market is not finished. the four freedoms are not implemented. the single market is the european union's potential for growth and employment. we need only to implement what we have committed ourselves to, we do not need to create new regulations, we only need to remove barriers. i would also like to say that we must do everything we can to ensure that the member states fully implement all the legislation we adopt. you're behind the times. the single market forum must be the annual mirror of the failures and the setting of priorities and objectives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecb has exclusive responsibility for the stability of the euro. the main task of the european monetary institute is to control inflation in the monetary union. the intervention in the bond markets since may 2010, which has now seen it buy over eur 200 billion of sovereign debt of heavily indebted euro area countries, has definitely exceeded its mandate. the ecb may consider its purchases to be important for stabilising capital markets, but in fact the ecb's move into the grey zone between fiscal and monetary policy has by no means depressed the interest burden of the euro crisis countries. once credibility is lost, however, this is known to cause immense costs. in the crisis, the ecb must not, in my view, continue on the present erroneous path. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. the real danger now is that the economically successful countries of the eurozone will also be dragged down into the abyss.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to thank you. for some in the house, it would be best to develop their own currency personally and then just spend more of their own money. but in practice, that just doesn't work. we must now ensure that liquidity is maintained, particularly in the financial markets. so i would like to ask mrs mcguiness: do you think that what happened yesterday, that the central banks have thrown massive amounts of money into the markets, will contribute to stability and that this is the end of the double dip?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2012 budget is a budget of austerity, despite some criticism. this is a good sign for our citizens. it shows that the european parliament too is managing its budget with moderation in these economically difficult times. i would remind you that 94% of the eu budget goes to our citizens, 6% goes to the work of the eu institutions and the eu budget for 2012 represents an increase of 1.86%, or 0.98% of the eu's gni, compared to this year. this more than meets the requirements of some member states. we must not forget, with all our economy, that there must be a future after these times of crisis, but with youth unemployment at more than 20%, it will prove extremely difficult, especially for future generations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. greece, for example, has a lot of potential. investing in solar power plants there will not only create sustainable jobs, but also make a significant step towards climate goals by bringing electricity to our vast europe. last but not least, a special thanks to our two rapporteurs and to all those involved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate you on the completion of this budget, which can certainly be a model for the nation states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the principle of negotiation would also allow for a certain degree of automation, so that the self-restraint we impose on ourselves at european level to avoid over-indebtedness should also be voluntarily supported by the member states. i would like to thank the commission very much for the fact that the erasmus for journalists programme, which we introduced as a preparatory action last year, has been taken over by commissioner neelie kroes. the programme enables journalists to travel between the capitals and to other parts of the european union to learn more about how european policy is carried out in the different member states, such as by television, newspapers and social networks. we have a great opportunity here to introduce journalists to the real europe. i am also pleased that the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs is being promoted. this is where new jobs are created, this is where new employment is created. the programme, which promotes contacts with suppliers or customers, creates networks that are good for all of us. i would like to thank the commission for the opportunity it has given to support the youth olympic games in innsbruck. bringing people together across borders, especially in sport, where there is performance, is very important for all of us!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to let you know that my private headphones were stolen from my seat here. it is not acceptable that headphones be stolen from the square in this parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to make a brief comment: you welcomed the president of the croatian parliament and his colleagues at the beginning of the sitting. i would like to thank you very much as rapporteur. the council of ministers has adopted the legislation we are calling for, with a thoroughness and speed that are truly exemplary. i think that everyone can confirm this, including mr hökmark, as chairman of the joint parliamentary delegation. i would add that i would ask the honourable members to support croatia's application for membership by a large majority. this is not only a signal for croatia, but also a signal for the future of the european union, an expression of faith in this european union. because when croatia joins, it joins in full awareness of our problems, but in the awareness that this is the future of europe. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − the 2006 interinstitutional agreement allows the flexibility instrument to be used to finance specific expenditure which cannot be incurred within the ceiling of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. the eu now wants to use this possibility of budgetary carry-overs between budget headings to use additional money for the europe 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy. i am against the use of this flexibility instrument, particularly in the present crisis.
in writing. − six amendments to the commission proposal on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument concerning a financial allocation to increase the appropriations in the 2012 budget in heading 1a and heading 4 limited the appropriations for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (heading 4) from the estimated eur 208,67 million to eur 150 million, while increasing the funding for the europe 2020 strategy (heading 1a) from the estimated eur 30,75 million to eur 50 million. i agreed to it.
in writing. - it is particularly in a tense crisis situation that it is imperative to use all the saving potential. not only because an increase in the budget is incomprehensible in the face of national austerity programmes, but also because next year the permanent euro stabilisation mechanism will be paid in. and this cash must be financed from the already scarce national budgets. it may well be that many multiannual programmes are now due for payment and cannot be cancelled at this stage, as the eu could be sued for breach of contract. however, there is sufficient saving potential. i therefore voted against the budget.
in writing. − amending budget no 6/2011 concerns a previously agreed increase in heading 1 and 4 of the 2011 budget. i agreed to it.
in writing. - five portuguese companies have had to lay off 726 employees as a result of the economic crisis. in order to provide portugal with financial assistance for the reintegration of the unemployed, a request was made for eur 1 518 465 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund is capped at eur 500 billion per year. i am voting in favour of the report because the use of the funds is entirely justified, since all the necessary reports and requests were submitted in due time.
in writing. − the financial crisis has also led to a decline in demand for automotive electronics and in production in the automotive sector in general. three companies then stopped production in portugal and 726 workers were made redundant. the globalisation fund is now providing eur 1 518 465 to support these workers and help them reintegrate into the labour market. i agreed to it.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define what constitutes aid repayable or non-repayable. however, member states used forms of aid which could be reimbursed, given the positive experience gained in the previous programming period. the commission is now proposing to incorporate this practice into legislation and to guarantee repayable aid and financial instruments. i agree with that.
in writing. − the ongoing financial and economic crisis has had a very negative impact on the macroeconomic stability of the member states' budgets. budget cuts have led to implementation problems for important cohesion policy projects and are hampering the necessary use of eu structural funds. the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 is intended to allow member states which are particularly affected to benefit from eu funding for which they are eligible by reducing the co-financing rate. the measures are limited in time and the commission's proposal has been amended to clarify the specific features of the measure. i agreed to it.
in writing. − eu law does not allow for a more favourable taxation of local products than products from other member states. in november 2010, spain submitted a request to the commission to extend a derogation for the canary islands, so that the expiry date coincides with the end of the national regional aid directive 2007-2013. the commission concludes that the exception is appropriate in view of the economic situation in the canary islands, which is characterised by a rapid increase in the unemployment rate (from a maximum of 12% to 26,2%) due to the collapse of the tourism sector. the rapporteur agreed with this view and i did too.
in writing. − decision 2007/659/ec authorised france to apply a reduced rate of taxation (for a limited annual quota) to rum from the french overseas departments. this derogation should now be extended until december 2013 upon request. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the intervention in the bond markets, which began in may 2010 and now amounts to over eur 200 billion in sovereign debt of heavily indebted euro area countries, has definitely exceeded the mandate of the european central bank. finally, the ecb is solely responsible for the monetary stability of the euro, its main task being to control inflation in the monetary union. the ecb may consider its purchases to be important for the stabilisation of capital markets. in fact, however, the ecb's move into the grey zone between fiscal and monetary policy has not at all reduced the interest burden on the euro crisis countries. once credibility is lost, this causes immense costs. the ecb must not continue on the same erroneous path as it is on in the crisis. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. − since may 2010, the ecb has been acting outside its original remit of monitoring inflation and thus the stability of the euro. but now it is acting as a liquidity provider for failing states and has bought over €200 billion worth of ramschan bonds since spring 2010! the fact that this has not helped to alleviate the crisis but has rather intensified the vicious circle can be read by anyone in the media these days. the ecb should look back at its original mandate. what we need now is stability, so that the strong economies of the eurozone are not soon dragged into the crisis. i voted against the present course of the ecb, because i think it is a wrong one.
in writing. − the average government deficit in the euro area has risen from 0.7% of gdp in 2007 to 6% in 2010, and the average new debt ratio has risen from an already excessive 66.2% to 85.1%. without the common strong currency, however, the impact of the financial crisis would have been far more fatal. the us debt-to-gdp ratio is 101.1%, and japan's is 212.1%. however, as has been pointed out in various reports and in long debates, the euro has not succeeded in establishing (its own) control of the monetary area and in ensuring that budgetary discipline is observed. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the rapporteur also calls for deepening financial integration by transferring sovereign rights to the eu, and he relates this transfer to a middle way, combining market discipline and the fulfilment of budgetary obligations by the member states. the report also calls for the creation of a european finance ministry and a financial administration capable of issuing euro bonds, in order to avoid the mistakes that have been made. i have to say that i do not agree with all the points made by the rapporteur, and i have therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − high school drop-out rates have significant socioeconomic consequences, which is why the strategy 2020 aims to reduce the drop-out rate to 10%. studies have shown that there are distinct characteristics that tend to make people more likely to miss out on their education. it is noted that girls (13%) are less likely to drop out than boys (17%). it is also clear that children from families with lower levels of qualification drop out significantly more often. migrants also have higher school dropout rates. however, this phenomenon cannot be considered in a general way, and certainly not in isolation from external factors such as poverty or abuse. evidence shows that school leavers are significantly more likely to be at risk of poverty, due in part to the lack of education and the associated opening of the labour market for such people. i am voting against the report because i believe that education and schooling are national problems for which individual solutions exist in each member state.
in writing. − high school drop-out rates have serious socioeconomic consequences: drop-outs have a negative impact on economic growth and threaten economic and social stability. if the drop-out rate across europe could be reduced by just 1% a year, it is believed that this could provide an additional half a million qualified young people. the demographic development of europe will make it particularly important to integrate as many competent young people as possible into the labour market in order to avoid being dependent on migration. i do not think the measures proposed in the report are very effective, for example, the rapporteur suggests that traditional examinations should be abolished, since this would make the grading dependent on performance on a given day. i think that traditional examination procedures are important, however, because young people also depend on them to be able to perform when they are asked to do so in their later professional and social life. i cannot agree with the rapporteur's methods and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − people leave early education for a variety of reasons, but their chances of entering the labour market are poor and their low income puts them at high risk of poverty. one of the six key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the school drop-out rate to 10% (by 2020), as the direct link between high school drop-out rates and their deceleration is clear. to achieve this objective, the eu urgently needs to put in place effective measures: the pupils must already be offered qualified assistance in vocational guidance. the current examination procedures themselves need to be reviewed and curricula adapted to the present with innovative and broad-based elements.
in writing. − for many acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), banana production for export to the eu is an important economic activity, as it has multiplier effects on the whole economy. in view of this, the eu grants certain trade preferences to acp banana exporters. this allows the eu to promote prosperity and economic dynamism in the region, without simply providing money. you create an incentive for people in their own country to grow, market and export a product. the main acp suppliers of bananas therefore need a programme of accompanying measures for the banana sector. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - in the commission's proposal for a new regulation on statistical returns in the road haulage sector, i do not see how the new conditions for the delegation of powers by the legislator to the commission will not lead to a gradual further erosion of the principle of subsidiarity. finally, the scope of the delegation of powers to the commission in the proposed recast is too large. i agree with the rapporteur here. however, it is too little to require that the exercise of delegated powers should not impose any additional financial burden on the reporting agents. in the spirit of the reduction of bureaucracy announced for years, any revision and amendment should be used to provide companies with real bureaucratic relief. this did not happen. i do not approve of this report for these reasons.
in writing. the commission presented a proposal which includes the codification of several legal acts applicable to freight statistics. the rapporteur criticises the rules on delegation of powers which have been too broadly drawn up and therefore recommends amendments which would limit the scope of these powers once again. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region of the russian federation became an enclave within the eu as a result of eu enlargement. around one million people live in three districts that are completely surrounded by eu territory. these people now have to contend with transit and visa requirements if they want to go to poland or the russian heartland. regulation (ec) no 1931/2006 lays down rules on short border traffic and external land borders of the member states (within a zone of 30 km) which constitute an exception to the schengen arrangements. for the implementation of this regulation, the parties concerned may conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries in order to take due account of the specific circumstances. the eu has tried to take initiatives to facilitate passenger traffic between kaliningrad and the russian heartland for the residents of the area, but these have so far proved insufficient. poland and the russian federation have now requested an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1931/2006: the border area zone is to be extended to 50 km as an exception, so that the entire territory of kaliningrad is considered a border area. the commission recommends that the regulation be amended accordingly. i agreed to that, too.
in writing. the european union is a major player in the world economy. in recent years, croatia has consistently sought to implement the reforms demanded by the eu in the accession negotiations and thus to meet all the accession criteria. it is also clear that croatia is part of the christian european cultural community and that is why integration into the european union is desirable. it should also be noted that croatia, especially in comparison with turkey, has continuously pursued the announced reforms at all times. this suggests that the eu will have a reliable member at european level in the future with the admission of the croatian people. the accession of croatia is also an important step towards the integration of the countries of the western balkans. for these reasons i voted in favour of croatia's accession.
in writing. − the european parliament must give its consent to enlargement of the european union in accordance with article 49 of the treaty on european union. as croatia fulfils the copenhagen criteria for full membership of the union, i have agreed. until the country's final accession, the commission will monitor the further development of the reform process initiated and inform the european parliament.
in writing. - the application of croatia for membership of the european union is very welcome. croatia, which has always sought to fulfil the tasks set by the eu since the start of the accession negotiations, will be a reliable partner at european level. the closer integration of the croatian people, who have always been culturally part of europe, is therefore to be welcomed. in contrast to other candidate countries, such as turkey, croatia also has no doubt that admission, if it meets all the criteria - and if it is in line with the wishes of the croatian people - is a logical step towards european integration. i therefore voted in favour of croatia's application for membership of the european union.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia, but calls on the republic to continue the reforms initiated with a consistent commitment, explicitly in the areas of justice, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and anti-discrimination policy. i agreed to this.
in writing. − the current crisis of confidence highlights the need for a clear and efficient code of conduct for members of the european parliament with regard to financial interests and possible conflicts of interest. each member should carry out his or her duties in accordance with the guiding principles of disinterestedness, integrity, openness, diligence, honesty, responsibility and respect for the reputation of parliament. in the event of a conflict of interest, the provisions of this code of conduct should provide a remedy: if the member is unable to resolve the conflict of interest, he shall inform the president in writing. in case of doubt, the advisory committee on the conduct of members can advise on a confidential basis. in addition, each member should disclose any existing or potential conflict of interest in relation to the matter under consideration before speaking or voting in plenary or in any of parliament's bodies or when proposed as rapporteur. such disclosure shall be made in writing or orally to the president during the relevant parliamentary debate. i think that these measures are sensible and build confidence. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the report contains some amendments to the code of conduct for members of the european parliament concerning financial interests and possible conflicts of interest in the exercise of their mandate. in accordance with the principle of transparency, meps should in future declare their professional activities during the three years preceding their term of office; income, including non-regular income, and functions in enterprises must be listed. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the failure of the brussels eurocrats to take any constructive steps to deal with the financial and economic crisis, which has been ongoing since 2008, is a sad fact for the entire economic world. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the future of the euro. in their distress the eurocrats have no choice but to cry out to brussels for more centralisation. however, rather than shifting more responsibilities to brussels with the european semester, the challenge is to prevent debt from being incurred in the first place. the priority should be to avoid at all costs that the economically successful countries of the eurozone are dragged into the abyss by the debt crisis. the european semester does not contain any sensible solutions in this respect, so i voted against it.
in writing. - instead of finally giving a chance to weaker economies outside the euro, brussels is relying on a planned economy. economic and social policy - the core competences of a sovereign state - is now subject to the centralised supervision of the commission and ecofin. national reform programmes must be presented in brussels, 'inconsistencies must be detected at an early stage'. the council and commission recommendations are then to be implemented in the second half of the year. this system can't work! i am not the only one to say this, but a study by the green group also shows this: after that, the effectiveness of the recommendations in the last european semester is zero. why would you do that? growth cannot be forced by a centrally planned economy! we must now correct the birth defect of the eurozone and form a hard currency area. with sovereign states and a sovereign economic policy! i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the 'european semester' ensures the necessary coordination of budgetary and fiscal policies between member states, while leaving sufficient scope for effective budgetary, economic and social action. the synergies that have been so often mentioned can only be realised in the best possible way through such coordination. the european parliament calls for sufficient resources to be allocated early on in order to be able to effectively implement the objectives of the 2020 strategy. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the european single market offers enormous benefits to some 500 million people, including in terms of supply and price, and new expansion opportunities for more than 21 million european businesses. the commission is to present concrete proposals for the 12 priorities of the single market act by the end of 2011, so that the council and parliament can adopt a first package of measures by the end of 2012. i agreed to it.
in writing. − according to the latest eu data, the number of new (reported) hiv infections has been declining steadily, reaching a new low in 2011. however, recent developments in many of the eu's neighbouring countries, where hiv continues to pose a major public health threat, are alarming. the joint resolution calls on the commission and the council to implement the 'communication on the fight against hiv/aids in the eu and its neighbouring countries (2009-2013) ' and the related action plan, and to develop country-specific hiv action plans to combat the risk of new infections in a coordinated and effective manner.
in writing. − it is true that the european union should have good relations with ukraine, especially in terms of economic and scientific cooperation. however, it must not be forgotten that an association agreement with ukraine, which is aimed at full membership of the eu sooner or later, will undoubtedly lead to a deterioration in relations with russia. in addition, the conviction of former prime minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko in a political show trial has shown that ukraine still has major deficiencies in the rule of law and democratic values. all this leads to a situation in which it would be unthinkable at present to adopt the agreement in question. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − the eu is keen to intensify its relations with ukraine, particularly in the energy sector. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i agreed to it.
in writing. - with the abolition of internal eu borders, customs have also acquired a completely new meaning, which is why it seems necessary to modernise them. the importance of ensuring the security of the international supply chain has increased considerably, while the customs authorities' original task of collecting customs duties is almost exclusively relevant at the external borders. the it measures necessary for this are not being completed in time, which is delaying the application of the modernised customs code. the report did not receive my vote because i do not agree with the rapporteur that the 27 customs authorities should be merged into one.
in writing. − the revision of the 2008 customs code is intended to simplify customs procedures. modern customs provides legal certainty and protection of intellectual property, as well as tools to combat fraud and ensure the security of international supply chains. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. i agreed to it.
mr president, i think it is self-evident that it can be discussed. if your staff can informally inform the services then it can be well prepared without changing the title.
mr president, i think it is a justified request that we add this item to the agenda this week. our group has also introduced a resolution in that direction, so they could be treated together immediately. i think we should work for a common joint resolution. i do not know if you mentioned that, but i think we should negotiate – even if time is short – a joint resolution of this house on this issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i come from austria, a landlocked country, and i therefore do not view the european union's fisheries partnership agreement with morocco through a fog of self-interest, but on the contrary: i am interested in sustainable, fair fishing and not in the greedy, fast-moving deep-sea fishing. a yes to the protocol would cement wrong. it would be a yes to an unethical, unenvironmental waste of money. over €36 million is paid annually for eu access to moroccan fishing waters. this is in no way related to the jobs it will create in the european union. this money could be spent more intelligently on employment policies. only when it is ensured that the western saharawi get their fair share of the fisheries off their coast and that the sea is not overfished will we in the european parliament be able to stand by our own values and principles.
in writing. the commission is therefore planning to extend the fisheries agreement with morocco, which has been found to be environmentally harmful and is one of the most expensive agreements in the world at €36 million per year, but which does not benefit european taxpayers or the local population. and then someone else says the eu is not dictated by big lobbyists! the extension of the fisheries agreement is not justified. the agreement is interpreted by both parties to include the fish-rich waters of the occupied western sahara, which are now threatened by overfishing. the eu must stop taxing small-scale fishermen for the benefit of large maritime companies, especially in the context of the economic crisis. if the eu looks the other way, we will be raising the next generation of somali pirates in western sahara. the agreement is contrary to the un convention on the law of the sea and international law. the eu, which likes to dress up in the mantle of democracy, human rights and international law, would do well to finally respect these rights itself - whether in cia operations, in kosovo or in western sahara. the eu's illegal and legalized plundering of the sea off the occupied western sahara must come to an end.
while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter aims for energy by nuclear fusion. here is the crucial difference to today's nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic "radiant" substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment. in contrast, nuclear fusion leaves behind much less radioactive residues. iter could therefore pave the way to a sustainable energy source, even if its use for electricity generation is still a long way off. therefore, iter should be equipped with sufficient resources. europe must keep up with the times and promote forward-looking research. however, more transparency and better cost estimation are needed: exceeding the original plan by more than 300% is unacceptable! and we must not allow a steady increase in appropriations to become the norm!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their excellent work. the european parliament has for many years been a very credible advocate of combating violence, especially violence against women. in this respect, the initiative of the spanish presidency of the council of ministers for a european protection order is or was very welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. and these victims now sometimes move, for example, to another eu country. we are now in the process of creating a european area of justice, a europe of freedom, security and justice as a european added value. and the european protection order as a system of mutual recognition is an important part of that. it is about creating mutual trust in national european legal systems, but above all, of course, about protecting victims of stalking violence by ex-partners for example across borders.
i have to say, madam president, victims of violence often change their surroundings to distance themselves from the tragic events. but it is not possible for perpetrators to take advantage of the differences in legal systems and follow the victim to another member state to further harass him there. the protection of victims must be a central concern, whether it is sexual assault, stalking or violence against minors. however, legal harmonisation would be contrary to subsidiarity and should be rejected in view of the different legal systems in this sensitive area. it is therefore necessary to adopt safeguard measures in accordance with national law in order to protect victims across borders. this is particularly true for those member states which believe they should apply sharia law. domestic violence cannot be justified by cultural or religious reasons, and this principle should be applied throughout europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission believes that its plans will help to meet future labour needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of residence and the right to work are issued in the same way. it would be better to link the stay to concrete employment opportunities on the labour market. i think that the solution is not to migrate in a hurry. in addition, a set of rights is intended to bring migrants into line with nationals, i.e. equal working conditions, recognition of vocational training, tax relief, trade union rights and equal social benefits. well, ladies and gentlemen, who's going to pay for this? our indebted euro-states? at least not the migrants, whose income is about 30% lower than that of the average eu citizen. of course, the tax will be reduced accordingly. in addition, migrants are much more affected by unemployment and are less skilled. the system would mainly benefit migrants, i.e. those who have a particularly low employment rate and are more affected by poverty. this will result in migrants being overrepresented in social security systems. that certainly does not help our labour markets.
the commission has already done so. we all know that many member states are facing a shortage of labour, especially skilled workers. i believe that with this directive we will be able to create certain incentives, on the one hand, so that those who are really needed in the member states can come and find work, and on the other hand, that controls are put in place and thus legal access is controlled. i think it is particularly important that a system be introduced which states that it is of course for the member states to set quotas and that when quotas are in place and when quotas are exhausted and exhausted, a decision of inadmissibility can be issued, that is to say that the member state can then refuse to accept the transfer. these are arrangements which should ultimately lead to a clear decision within four months as to whether or not a third country national may move to the union, to a particular city. it is a question of finding the right people, and we must do so legally, and we must fight against illegality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is being done under the pretext of simplifying procedures and better managing immigration is once again an extension of the rights of third country nationals. if immigration remains strong in times of rising unemployment, then there is clearly a displacement of domestic workers. it is also strange that the supposedly highly skilled workers who are supposed to fill the supposed skills shortage in the eu are all too often found in sectors far from education - agriculture, construction and hospitality - precisely those sectors where workers are becoming unemployed faster than skilled workers. and that increases the likelihood that the social network will have to hold on. instead of opening up access to social security to third country workers through the eu back door, it is time to look seriously at the sectors that immigrants are recruited into, their educational level and the costs to society. eu migration policy must not lead to unchecked mass immigration and corporate-driven competition for displacement!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, it should be assumed that in a european union where the right to a fair trial and to a defence are enshrined in two documents - the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights - the teaching of rights in criminal proceedings will work without problems. the bureaucracy alone has not been able to keep up with the mobilization of eight million criminal cases a year across europe. however, since the commission became aware of the problem of eu citizens not being informed about basic fundamental rights in another member state in a language they understand, the situation has improved considerably. in some countries, however, the teaching is only oral, in others it is written in such a complicated language - official german, we would say - that even in one's mother tongue, without prior legal knowledge, one can hardly understand anything. it is therefore welcome that legal education is now being delivered in written form and in understandable terms in the eu languages - not only does this save interpretation costs, but this simple measure may also help to avoid judicial errors, and this is a good thing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european commission has just put the baltic-adriatic axis on the list of major projects to be funded over the next few years. this north-south axis, which is almost 2 000 km long, links almost 50 million people in 10 eu countries. it covers 85 agglomerations and economic centres, 138 sea and inland ports, 28 border crossings with third countries and is one of the most important alpine crossings with an annual volume of goods of some 24 million tonnes. these facts illustrate very well the positive effect that the baltic-adriatic axis will have on the countries involved. it will bring the eastern eu member states closer to the centre of europe and better connect them, leading not only to economic growth in the countries bordering on the eu, but also to the strengthening of the internal market. in addition to providing another opportunity to shift freight from road to rail, it will also drastically reduce travel times, especially for passenger transport. this opens up new prospects for tourism and thus offers all of us a better opportunity to get to know each other.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr president, you have now defended mr cameron with astonishing vehemence, saying that he is defending the interests of the taxpayer. the only people mr cameron is advocating are the multimillionaires, the speculators and the financial sharks. for no one else, my friend! i would now like to ask you: if mr cameron continues on this path, are you happy that he is continuing on it? because then britain will probably become a second cayman island: lots of accounts, lots of multimillionaires, no jobs. only the weather's worse. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, i listened very carefully to you as you described what has happened and what is yet to happen. i have no doubt that the european parliament will be able to support the commission's proposals. the debt problem could be under control. i say "could". but what about the measures for the recovery, as you yourself have said? what about job creation measures? what about the role of the ecb? what about eurobonds? that was not heard at this summit. and what, above all, is the response to this economic war waged against the european union by some rating agencies? i do not think that has been discussed either. but it should be discussed. the biggest disappointment for me, i tell you quite frankly, is that i do not see that those who have always benefited from these situations - the big banks, the private ones - should now be completely excluded from all participation and the taxpayers should step in. that was a false result. i think that the european union is too badly damaged to be left to the heads of state and government alone. the european parliament must be involved in decision-making again, as must the commission. i expect you to tell me today when and how this will happen - in the interests of europeans and especially those who work hard for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the last council summit was met with approval on the one hand and criticism on the other. i welcome the progress that has been made. they're steps in the right direction. the debt brake: structural deficits are now allowed to remain at 0.5% of gdp. automatic sanctions: the commission is now free to monitor and govern countries with excessive deficits, and it now exercises much more control over member states' budgetary planning than previously envisaged. the fact that only 26 member states are committed to this pact is regrettable and also a potential danger for the future of europe. nevertheless, it is clear that lessons have been learned from the mistakes of non-compliance with the maastricht criteria. we have also learned from the mistakes of the recent past. now is the time to work on implementing these results as quickly as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the messages today are clear. the european union is not divided, but the united kingdom is not solidary. i am glad that a debate is beginning in the united kingdom about the united kingdom's course in europe. secondly, we will not be blackmailed. that was the clear message of the 26th. we are being caught up in the mistakes of the past, and we have to undo the mistakes of the past. it is clear that the debt of debt means a sell-off of the future. if we go into debt, we also rob growth and jobs and the future. what are our demands? the european union is not a parliamentary body, but a political body, and it is not a political body, but a political body.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not apart from the fact that we have full confidence in the rapporteur, mrs inés ayala sender, i would like to make one point very clear on behalf of my group: it's about an independent position, about a person that we either think is right or wrong. it's not about a government delegate. i think that is something that needs to be said very clearly. (applause from the centre) the next time the ppe may also demand the replacement of a commissioner because the government has changed. we are speaking for europe, not for individual governments! that should be noted. (applause from the centre) i would therefore like to make it quite clear that someone has been nominated. the committee of this parliament has found that to be correct and the person to be suitable. the rapporteur, mrs inés ayala sender, has spoken about all these things or will speak about them. we should therefore vote for the person seriously. this is not a post-vote vote on the government in spain. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter is aiming for energy from nuclear fusion. this is the crucial difference with present-day nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic 'radiant' substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment. in contrast, nuclear fusion leaves behind much less radioactive residues. the way forward with iter is therefore at least an optimisation of the current fission methods and an improvement on the present situation, especially for countries like austria, which for good reasons reject nuclear technology in principle. as this is an international research project, which also has to comply with international treaties, i am in principle in favour of providing it with adequate resources. it will be seen later whether iter will pave the way to a new energy source. what we urgently need is more transparency and better cost estimation: exceeding the original plan by more than 300% is unacceptable! that is why i abstained.
in writing. − while the release of energy in conventional nuclear power plants is by nuclear fission, iter aims for energy by nuclear fusion. here is the crucial difference to today's nuclear power: nuclear fission releases highly toxic 'radiant' substances which pose a permanent danger to man and the environment. in contrast, nuclear fusion leaves behind much less radioactive residues. iter could therefore pave the way to a sustainable energy source, even if its use for electricity generation is still a long way off. therefore, iter should be equipped with sufficient resources. europe must keep up with the times and promote forward-looking research. however, more transparency and better cost estimation are needed: exceeding the original plan by more than 300% is unacceptable! and we must not allow a steady increase in appropriations to become the norm! that is why i abstained.
in writing. - amending budget no 7 to mobilise the eusf (solidarity fund) for eur 38 million the money will go to the earthquake-hit area in the spanish region of murcia and the flood-hit area in the italian region of venice. the payment of the appropriations shall be financed by a transfer from the rural development programmes.
in writing. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to provide assistance to the population affected by disasters. the commission estimated that eur 21 070 950 from the fund should be paid to the region of murcia in south-eastern spain, which was hit by two major earthquakes in may, injuring over 150 people and even killing several. eur 16 908 925 to cover part of the costs incurred by the italian authorities for emergency measures following the floods in veneto, including emergency shelter, rescue services and protection facilities, as well as for the repair of infrastructure and the cleaning up of the affected areas.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 31 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to assist workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis to reintegrate into the labour market. this report concerns the application for a grant of eur 3 918 850 from the egf for a company in south tyrol. i voted in favour of the report out of solidarity with the people who have been made redundant and to mitigate the negative consequences. it does not, however, change the fundamental need for a different eu policy on world trade. we must prevent the dumping of imports from emerging countries, which in turn ruins our domestic industry.
in writing. − common minimum standards in criminal proceedings would greatly facilitate the implementation of the mutual recognition agreements in criminal matters and cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states. this directive should also cover the application of the european arrest warrant. the commission proposal stipulates that information in pre-trial proceedings must be given in understandable language, that there is a right to information on the allegation of an offence and to access to the file, albeit in a limited way. the report presented by parliament supplements this with the right to translation and the right to be informed of the conditions for obtaining free legal aid. i agreed to it.
in writing. − when a person moves from one eu member state to another, he or she should continue to be safe and protected. this directive is intended to serve the interests of victims and potential victims of offences which may endanger the life, physical, psychological and sexual integrity of victims. this means not only physical protection but also respect for the dignity of the victims. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. - in addition to the prevention of crime, the main intention of this draft directive is to strengthen the protection of victims. since the first reading, the scope of the act has been partly redefined by establishing a closer link between the possibility of issuing a european protection order and criminal conduct. this is intended to clarify the relationship between the act and the legal basis. it also contains a proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. although these changes may be accompanied by improvements, the focus throughout the legal field remains strongly on the offender and his rights. so there are still steps to be taken. i have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − victims of violence often change their environment to distance themselves from traumatic experiences. it is therefore not possible for perpetrators to take advantage of the differences in legal systems, follow the victim to another member state and continue to harass him there. the protection of victims must be a central concern, whether it is sexual assault, stalking or violence against minors. the criminal and civil components must be considered. however, harmonisation would be contrary to subsidiarity and should be rejected in view of the different legal traditions in this sensitive area. instead, safeguard measures should be adopted in accordance with national law to protect victims across borders. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − the present report is, once again, a document purporting to bring about administrative simplification for immigrants legally present in the eu. if we study the text carefully, we see that the central authorities in brussels are really concerned with extending the rights of thirdcountry nationals. these are generally poorly trained and are now expected by the eu establishment to replace the skills lacking in the eu. this is ridiculous. the result of this policy is that it is becoming even more difficult for eu citizens with lower qualifications to find a job. i have therefore voted against this report in the interests of our citizens.
in writing. - unfortunately, the commission believes that its plans will help to meet future labour needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of residence and the right to work are issued in the same way. it would be better to link the stay to concrete employment opportunities on the labour market. i think that the solution is not to migrate in a hurry. in addition, a set of rights is intended to give migrants the same rights as nationals, i.e. equal tax benefits, trade union rights and equal social benefits. the question is also who should pay for it. our indebted euro-states certainly do not. in addition, migrants are much more affected by unemployment and are less skilled. the system would mainly benefit migrants, i.e. those who have a particularly low employment rate and are more affected by poverty. this will result in migrants being overrepresented in social security systems. that certainly does not help our labour markets. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − in theory, the objectives of the common fisheries policy, namely to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited under economically, ecologically and socially sustainable conditions, applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem approach, also apply to areas beyond the territorial waters of the member states and community waters. a closer look at the expensive fisheries agreement with morocco, which is fraught with environmental and international concerns, reveals that these objectives are not always being consistently pursued. it is certainly advisable for small fishermen to organise themselves to provide a voice for the big fisheries companies. however, as history has shown, eu-oriented fisheries organisations tend to be too quick to take a strong line with the big fisheries groups. i have voted against the report on this point.
in writing. − the present proposal aims at simplifying the business environment and reducing administrative burdens, especially in relation to accounting rules for micro-enterprises. this is intended to increase competitiveness and to make better use of the growth potential of these companies. in particular in times of financial crisis, it is crucial for economic recovery that accounting requirements for micro-enterprises are adapted to the real needs of the preparers and users of financial statements. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − by amending directive 78/660/eec, member states may introduce a simplification of the 'general disclosure requirements' for micro-enterprises. the only requirements for this new scheme are that the balance sheet information is deposited with at least one designated authority and transmitted to the business register and that the statutory scheme ensures that sufficient invoice data is used. i agreed to it.
in writing. − due to the financial and budgetary crisis, some member states are unable to meet their obligations in relation to co-financed community programmes. if these states do not provide evidence of the corresponding use of funds in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 within two years following the year in which the payment is planned, they risk the cessation of community support from the eafrd. a temporary increase in the maximum rate of eu co-financing ensures that the countries concerned can continue to implement the co-financed projects and prevents the community support from becoming unclaimed through the eafrd. i agreed to it.
in writing. the restrictive effects of non-tariff barriers on european businesses must be eliminated or at least reduced. this must be one of the main priorities of the eu's new trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy. as regards free trade agreements between the eu and third countries, it is essential that these agreements provide a sufficient degree of reciprocity in terms of market access. i would like to repeat my call for sustainability chapters in trade agreements, which must be linked to safeguard clauses. quality and standards, especially in the agricultural sector, play an important role in the eu's internal market. these must also apply to third countries in the context of trade agreements.
in writing. - different barriers to trade have severely hampered the international market over the years. non-tariff barriers to trade are a particularly sensitive issue, as these measures are often provided for by governments in the so-called public interest, but this also carries a certain risk of abuse (protectionism under the guise of legitimate political objectives). free trade agreements between the eu and third countries, a periodic review of the wto agreement, joint engagement of the commission and the ead with eu trading partners and the establishment of an early warning mechanism are appropriate measures to identify and remove or reduce non-tariff barriers to trade. i agreed to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there are three facts. the first is that the european union was founded as a peace project so that there would be no military conflicts between the countries of the european union, and we have fulfilled this objective of founding the european union one hundred percent. secondly, we still have our national defence and security policy in all the member states, where all the states agree on three points. we have an efficiency problem, a recruitment problem and a funding problem. thirdly, there can be no effective, credible common foreign policy without a common security and defence policy. that means that we must do everything we can to create a common defence and security union on the basis of these three facts. the report by mr lisek shows us the way forward, and what we can do on the basis of the existing treaties to increase efficiency, to strengthen political credibility and to reduce budgetary requirements, because we can do better together than each of us can do inefficiently alone. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. he was right when he said that a common foreign policy without a defence policy is not really efficient. you can leave it in the room if you want. but what i missed in his statement and his analysis was a clear positioning. mr karas, are you now proposing that we build, design and implement a common european defence policy within the eu, or are you proposing that we, all the states, join nato and act as partners, as nato partners?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i would first of all suggest that we implement and support the contents of the lisek report and make it a permanent part of defence and security policy. we have already taken an important step in the treaty of lisbon with the establishment of the european defence agency. secondly, i suggest that we take seriously the objectives we have set ourselves - to strengthen cooperation - and follow them up with action. we need a european security and defence union. we can't do that without a change in the form of the contract. we should try to be consistent in what we can do on the basis of the treaty. the report provides a good basis for this.
i have to say, madam president, human rights, as opposed to civil rights, are subjective rights that are equally due to all people, such as protection of life, protection from torture, freedom of expression, to name a few. that's the theory. but what is the reality? there's a massacre of coptic christians in egypt. the eu is watching. the people's republic of china, which is committed to human rights, is trampling them underfoot. the eu is watching. authoritarian states in the arabian peninsula are distracting from their own problems at home with pseudo-syrian criticism. so it is a double standard, lady ashton. it is good to talk about the respect of human rights. but let us also follow your words with deeds! the eu has ample scope for exerting external pressure. we must have the courage to seize these opportunities too.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i think we have an important summit before us in two aspects. first of all, in the dialogue we have to have with the leadership in russia and the energy dialogue and, of course, the conclusion of wto entry. we have the visa liberalisation and we have the partnership and cooperation agreement we should work on. i hope we can have a real restart on the issue. of course, we have also the election question, as you just mentioned and thank you very much for your very clear position, high representative. it is a sign of the maturity of the russian population and of their unwillingness, as my colleague said, to accept everything coming from the kremlin or the white house – the russian white house, i mean – and i think we should support all civil society that is trying to convince the political establishment that another way is much better: an open way, a democratic way. i think this is the line we should follow. as we now have in our joint resolution, and as you said, high representative, we call on the commission that was set up by mr medvedev to look into the matter seriously, openly and frankly. i was, together with mr fleckenstein, in russia at the beginning of november. we saw already at that time that there would be serious flaws in the election, and we hope that a good result comes out of this research and inquiry. i would suggest, and have suggested, to the committee on foreign affairs, together with the delegation, to have a hearing in the european parliament in january with representatives of all the parties – of the parties who could run, with the parties who were prevented from running, with civil society, with the osce, in order to have a real open picture. with this in mind, i will reject now an appeal in our joint resolution about the parliament’s re-election to be repeated. let us wait and look into the detail, let us look into the facts. maybe we will come to a result; maybe even the medvedev commission will come to a result that in some areas it should be repeated. i think we should have a clear position and have real facts on the table before we come to these conclusions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although tens of thousands of dissatisfied russians have made a statement, few will give in to the illusion that the protest movement has enough power to shake the entire system or even trigger a change of power. despite the political differences between the protesters, putin's role as a stabilizer after the chaos of the 1990s is still undoubtedly popular. stability in russia is also appreciated by the european economy. finally, russia can only be measured against european standards in terms of democratic standards. democracy is still in its infancy, and it will certainly take time to eradicate the spiritual and moral legacies of 70 years of communist dictatorship. putin will probably try to prevent further protests by a measured concession, which at least has the potential for democratic development. this should be of use to the european union at the next meeting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. somewhat grotesque was the recent television appearance by syria's dictator assad, denying any responsibility for the deaths of thousands in his country. he has made statements that seem to contradict his belief that sanctions cannot frighten him. the measures adopted by the eu to date, such as arms embargoes, account closures, investment bans and oil import bans, are certainly weighing on the syrian economy. with the economic pressure mounting, the noose around assad is definitely tightening. this is the only way for europe to put pressure on the regime. we are in agreement with the arab league on this point. it is important that not only the west but also the arab league and the gulf cooperation council continue to call on assad to make serious reforms and to stop the bloodshed. it is clear that the resistance of the population is growing. just think of the recent general strikes. although these will probably only hurt assad when the capital damascus and the economic metropolis aleppo are affected. both seem to be firmly in the dictator's hands. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. if assad gives in to economic pressure and a civil war does break out, a wave of refugees is to be expected. the european union should take appropriate measures to this end.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, mr mário david and mr marek siwiec, for the excellent work they have done, and especially for the good cooperation we have had in the committee on foreign affairs. we have two different neighborhoods, the eastern and the southern. we have certain principles in common, of course. we have a common neighbour in the east, above all with russia. that doesn't make life easy sometimes. but i think that the neighbourhood policy should be a signal to russia that we want to recognise our neighbours as independent countries. they are partners, they have to make their own decisions, especially as regards the association agreements with ukraine. but we want to see them, as i said, in a state of friendship, including friendship with russia. but the independence of our neighbours must be fully recognised here. and we want to have as close a relationship as possible with these neighbours. as regards the southern neighbourhood - commissioner füle has also made this clear - it is very important for us not to use the result of one or another election that we do not like as an excuse to abandon these relations or to relegate them to the background. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. that is the message of these two rapporteurs. let's give our neighborhood a real chance for a real partnership. this is an offer from the european union which they should really accept.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there's rarely anything in this house that will satisfy everyone 100%. but i think this compromise is a very good one in the consumer sense because it creates freedom of choice. this is something we have been trying to achieve with food labelling. we don't want to patronize anyone. we don't want to tell anyone what food to buy, what drinks to drink, whether fruit juice or fruit juice. but we want to lay the foundation for consumers to make their decision based on reliable information. the compromise we are discussing today is the one that creates this freedom of choice. what we must do in any case together with this legislation is an information campaign. - what? a buzzword that needs to be brought to life: health literacy. if people assume that there is no sugar in a fruit juice that doesn't say that sugar has been added to it, then that's simply a sign that they're not well informed. because a fruit juice, because it's made of fruit, already contains sugar. but not all consumers are aware of this, and i think that we as the european parliament, as european institutions, really need to catch up. we need to empower people to make those choices, too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission, the rapporteur and our shadow rapporteur, because i think we have found a good compromise here. very practical. i would remind you that in the water framework directive we have indeed created a legal instrument of the century, which aims to maintain european waters in good ecological condition by 2015. this includes sectoral measures. i would remind you that we have, for example, the drinking water directive, we have the nitrates directive, the eqs system, where we are also expecting a proposal from the commission to extend it next year, and we now have a new approach with this directive, with the phosphate limits in dishwashers and detergents. the situation varies from one member state to another. in some member states agriculture is the main polluter, in others industrial and municipal waste water, depending mainly on the hardness of the water, which depends mainly on topographical and other geological conditions, and of course also on the state of the sewage system or sewage treatment plant in the member state concerned. nevertheless, the commission has taken the right approach in tackling this problem at its source. the parts are different. in some member states it is only a few per cent, which is what these dishwashing records are, in others it is much more. we now have a compromise here which we in the epp welcome, particularly the fact that we have included the dishwashers. i believe that in the long term we are on the right track to achieve our goal of high water quality. we also expect the commission to continue along this path, in particular, of course, to tackle these diffuse sources of pollution, which are the main cause of most water problems, such as those from agriculture and some industrial waters. we hope that next year we will receive proposals on this subject.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his persistence, because i think it was essential that we did not do things half-heartedly here. if it was just the washing machine detergent, it would have been half the story. because the use of dishwashing detergents in the dishwashers is a big input into our waters. with this regulation, we have taken a first step to ensure that our waters provide a habitat for the future and do not 'survive' and that life does not end there because of the excess fish and algae. i would just like the commission to take a firm and consistent approach to extending this regulation to industrial and institutionalised detergents, because i believe there is a very great need here. i know that it is a complex and difficult area, and of course there is the question of how economically efficient it is. but i think that's also our main problem with durban: nature is not negotiable. we don't have much time in this area. i would like to see this matter taken up with tenacity. but let us not forget that although we have now virtually eliminated phosphates from detergents, we have substitutes. we must therefore also pay attention to these substitutes in the future. i am very grateful that there is a regulation here which allows great flexibility to take account of this where there are different degrees of hardness, where there are different degrees of purification. but that should not contribute to water down this regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the polish presidency of the council has been going through a very difficult period. the euro crisis, the greek problem and the general political and economic climate have created an environment in which political ideas and aspirations have not been able to grow to the heavens. in spite of this, or perhaps because of this, this presidency has been a success. i would like to mention in particular the work during the 2012 budget process. the polish presidency has been distinguished by its good preparation, its expertise and the political discretion required in difficult times. although the result is a compromise that cannot satisfy either side, the 2012 eu budget reflects a real policy in the circumstances and thus your performance, which we will remember with fondness, among many other things. you have presented yourself as a european for the past six months. thank you so much.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask what influence the british press had here on the short-term decision not to participate in these joint new structures. do you think that outside european influences have been at work here?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate you, mr president of the council, mr prime minister, and also the many colleagues with whom i have had very good personal talks and cooperation. but you have been showered with so many roses that i would like to make a few critical remarks, beyond the nationalist and pseudo-revolutionary arguments that have been put forward here. you said, mr prime minister: 'some people live in this europe as if they did not live in a community.' you're absolutely right. this is not only true of mr cameron, of course, but it has also been noted at times in the case of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. i do not know how many times you or your colleagues have had to wait outside the door because you have deliberated behind closed doors and thought that you could impose something on the european union from a small circle. perhaps you should have been a little stronger at times and made it clear that europe is a community and that everyone must take part in it, and that the euro is also a common currency, even if not everyone has this currency yet. secondly, as has already been mentioned, durban. we were disappointed. all the colleagues who have returned were disappointed by the attitude of the polish presidency. i understand that you are in a difficult environment and energy situation. i hope we will have a genuinely common environmental policy. as for democracy, we do not have very democratic developments in some countries of the european union. i saw a picture of you and viktor orbán at the party congress. i do not know what you said to mr orbán, whether you told him that you could take a model from polish democracy - also a post-communist country - and not necessarily follow the example of hungary. the last one is the concept of growth. we could have used more initiative. but i would like to thank you for your work. i hope that as prime minister of poland you will continue to pursue many of these issues actively in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the polish presidency of the council has, as we know, entered with great ambitions, and indeed poland has also been an impeccable presidency. critically, however, it must be noted that the last six months were marked by the sovereign debt crisis, in which poland played a subordinate role, of course, simply because it is not part of the eurozone. whether it was the reform of economic and monetary union or the stability mechanism, the direction was undoubtedly more determined by france and germany. the energy policy priorities were not particularly successful either. the eu-wide nuclear stress tests in particular have been relatively quiet. no wonder warsaw is sticking to its nuclear power plant plans despite the fallout from fukushima and germany's nuclear phase-out. at the durban climate conference, it was also foreseeable that a co2-emission-rich presidency would not be able to fully commit to the eu's ambitious climate goals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's gone off the grid again.
i have to say, madam president, i am strongly opposed to the imposition of the imbalance procedure on surpluses, let alone sanctions. the current account is one of the ten indicators of macroeconomics, and it would be perverse to punish it and treat it as if it were a deficit. we cannot regulate growth by a planned economy as in the soviet union. without the strong countries, the eurozone would have collapsed much earlier. if the imbalances are too great - and i think they are too - then we must form a hard currency zone and a soft currency zone. a currency must reflect the economic strength of the country. but it will not work like a planned economy, but only with currency zones that are rotated accordingly. austria, germany, the netherlands, luxembourg and possibly france - that is the one thing, and the other economies must be able to devalue their currencies accordingly.
in writing. − since 2007, eu resettlement assistance has been channelled through a single instrument to provide targeted support to candidate and potential candidate countries in the areas of transition and institution building, crossborder cooperation, regional development, human resource development and rural development. there have been irregularities in the past. billions are still being lost because brussels is not able or willing to clean up the mess. in laissez-faire fashion, there is no effort to recover even money that has been wrongly paid. again, there is no sign of any will to change. now they want to include northern cyprus, although the turks there are not even prepared to preserve or renovate the cultural monuments. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the pre-accession instrument is intended to help candidate countries, such as montenegro and turkey, to prepare for accession. each year, the european court of auditors repeats the findings of irregularities and errors in the payment of pre-accession aid. in addition, the introduction of turkey should be stopped altogether, since turkey is not a suitable candidate for accession and has repeatedly and impressively demonstrated this. as in the case of turkish-occupied northern cyprus, where, despite eu aid, churches and other cultural monuments are neglected, destroyed or converted into mosques or other facilities. the report calls for greater support for the turkish community in northern cyprus, which i consider to be unacceptable in view of the situation described.
in writing. − on 17 june 2010, the european council decided to grant candidate country status to montenegro and iceland, which also entails an amendment to the regulation establishing a pre-accession facility. the second amendment, concerning article 19 on 'participation in procurement procedures and rules of origin, eligibility', takes account of member states' requests to limit participation in calls for proposals to applicants from those countries participating in the relevant ipa crossborder cooperation programmes. the third amendment, concerning article 25, ensures that the phare committee can continue to assist the commission in the management of financial assistance to the turkish cypriot community.
in writing. the fruit juice sector is a major industry worldwide. within the european union, too, this industrial sector can be attributed a not insignificant share. however, in the case of fruit juice production, especially the popular orange juice, 80% of the volume consumed in the eu is imported from north america and brazil. the production process is also different, since in these countries all fruit is used for juice processing, but in the eu only the waste products that are no longer needed for trade. for the consumer, this means that the origin of the juice must be indicated in a particularly clear way in order to be able to tell him unequivocally where his product comes from. in general, the labelling of the ingredients of juices is not insignificant, especially as regards flavourings and sugar additives. consumers are also frequently confused by the terms 'juice' and 'nectar'. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that clear labelling is essential for the good of consumers.
in writing. - in the fruit juice sector, there are varieties which are imported to over 80%, for example from brazil or the usa. for citrus fruit, the european industry is an auxiliary industry complementary to fresh processing, in contrast to large international producers. the processing is often used to sell fruit which, because of its appearance (size, spots) is not marketed as fresh fruit, although it is quite suitable for producing high-quality fruit juices. due to the high environmental costs of imports (co2 emissions), it is of key importance to strengthen the european fruit juice industry. this would also prevent the destruction of less fruit suitable for fresh sale and prevent unharvested fruit from rotting in the field, which can lead to the spread of diseases. this creates socioeconomic added value by creating jobs and growth. the commission will also be seeking clarifications on labelling, classification, authorised ingredients and practices. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. this will create an incentive for third countries to improve the quality of their products by using more sustainable production methods. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of the use of certain substances in foodstuffs. the report, which takes account of these aspects, has my vote.
in writing. - there is an urgent need to improve consumer information on the content of fruit juices, in particular on sugar content. in particular, consumer groups with special needs (children, diabetics, people with weight problems) need to be protected from possible misinformation and misleading. the european citrus processing industry should also be encouraged by bringing the directive into line with international standards. in addition to economic benefits and job creation, strengthening the european citrus sector reduces the high environmental costs of carbon-intensive imports of citrus from overseas.
in writing. − phosphorus, mainly from household products such as dishwashing detergents and detergents, is a major contributor to the pollution of european waters. phosphate entering the water creates a good breeding ground for algae and other aquatic plants, which in turn leads to the depletion of additional oxygen in the water, which other organisms such as fish need to survive. this can lead to the extinction of species in the long term, which would cause considerable damage to ecosystems. the commission is now considering regulatory measures to encourage manufacturers of phosphorus-containing detergents to reduce the substance. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that dishwashers should also be included in the proposal, since they are now almost a standard household item, like washing machines.
in writing. − household products such as dishwashing or laundry detergents contain phosphorus. this substance hardens the water and thus allows for more efficient purification. however, phosphorus can have a massive negative impact when it enters our domestic waters, such as rivers or lakes. the situation is particularly serious in the danube basin. the problem is that phosphorus promotes the growth of algae and other aquatic plants, which in turn deprives the water of oxygen, which is essential for fish and other animals to survive. in the medium and long term, phosphorus pollution threatens to extinguish many fish and aquatic species; the ecological balance of the waters is disturbed. the present proposal aims at reducing the proportion of phosphorus in budgetary appropriations, including, in any event, the provision for dishwashing detergents. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to establish a maximum level for phosphorus in household detergents. the background is that phosphorus in detergents and dishwashing detergents is currently responsible for a large part of the pollution of our waters. while there are already phosphate-free liquid detergents which are increasingly gaining market share, there is currently no alternative on the market for dishwashers and it is therefore recommended that a fixed date be included in the phosphorus limitation regulation to provide incentives for the necessary innovation. i agreed to it.
in writing. − the fisheries agreement with morocco is not only expensive and a source of international concern, but also inefficient: although the principles of sustainability in socioeconomic and environmental terms should also apply outside the territorial waters of the member states and the eu, unfortunately, this is not the case. the eu's large fisheries organisations are also failing to represent the interests of small-scale fishermen adequately and are bidding for large international groups. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the fisheries agreement with morocco, which is to give 11 eu member states access to fishing grounds in moroccan territorial waters, is due to be renewed. the evaluation of the last four years of the agreement showed that the objectives were not met. the eu's aim of stabilising the fisheries market has not been achieved, and the large flow of money from the eu to morocco for fisheries has brought only a slight improvement in the situation of fishermen. there are also serious concerns about emerging environmental problems and a conflict of international law situation. i have refused because of the many and great concerns.
in writing. − uncoordinated cuts in defence budgets by most eu member states as a result of the crisis have the potential to make the eu unable to meet its international security responsibilities in terms of peacekeeping and conflict prevention. the report calls for the replacement of isolated national defence planning by constructive dialogue. i have agreed with the report as a whole.
in writing. - the eu is continuing to pursue democracy-building under the guise of fighting terrorism. the eu has made a small contribution to the transfer of counter-terrorism data to the us. the united states has also targeted individual member states, put them under pressure and blackmailed them into giving up or accessing all sorts of data - a data protection disaster. and this, although it is still not proven that this wealth of information can guarantee the success in the fight against terrorism that is used as a justification for the circumvention of basic fundamental rights. instead of spying on all eu citizens, the eu should once again focus on fighting the flourishing organised crime and pushing forward security-critical projects such as the schengen information system. the proposed measures, which seem to lead to the blacklisting of anyone who does not share the views of the mainstream media, must be rejected.
in writing. − under the guise of fighting international terrorism, the us is putting pressure on the eu and its member states to release data. in principle, all eu citizens are placed under general suspicion, rather than specific data on individuals where there is a stronger suspicion. moreover, it has not been demonstrated that the transmission of data in bulk is actually used for the purpose of combating terrorism. the report is a restriction on data protection, civil rights and freedom of expression and must therefore be rejected.
i have to say, madam president, the eu's decisions should be taken openly and close to the citizen. the revision of the legal framework on access to documents of the eu institutions was the litmus test for the european transparency initiative. the amendments concerning the definitions in the legal text and the exceptions laid down should be supported. i would also like to mention the issue of ensuring access to documents. it too must be made accessible. we all know the vast amount of information and documents we produce every day. we too are almost desperate to find a particular document. the citizens are suffering the same. we must therefore make the information available to our citizens in a simple and transparent way.
the commission has already done so. if i were a human trafficker, if i were a terrorist, if i were an opponent of a successful european parliament, or if i were an opponent of democratic structures and decision-making processes, i would vote for this report by michael cashman. but since i am neither, i shall vote against this report with all my heart. we all stand for transparency in political decision-making processes. we all want to see better access to documents for citizens. but cashman is going too far with his report and with your support. look at the definition of 'document', where he says that everything that has any relation to policies, actions or decisions of all the institutions or other institutions of the union must be put on the net. that is to say, if we go after cashman, then all the discussions we have somewhere in our decision-making processes in the political groups, in delegations, will be on the net. if we are making strategic preparations to assert parliament's interests, for example, against the council, then we must put this into the net. the content of the informal trilogue, also in the interests of the european parliament, or strategic planning discussions at europol or frontex should be on the net, it is up to you and it is up to michael cashman. in other words, those who support this report are preventing successful political parliamentary work, are reducing the european parliament's enforcement power and are helping criminal organizations to do their job. voting for this report does not increase transparency for the citizen. it is rather a support for political naivety and, in some areas, disregard for european law. i am glad to hear your comments, commissioner, and i am sure that you will have the support of the european people's party. you, on the other hand, most definitely do not. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. lady in the field, you're doing to me what you did to mrs. dr. sommer. they're turning the words inside out. i have made it clear why we are voting against this report, because it is not possible to publish and make public the strategic deliberations and discussions of an organisation which is responsible for fighting crime, because that is not the way to fight crime.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament's white paper on transport discusses, among other things, the need for sensible regulation of transport flows in order to keep the economy in our european union moving forward or to get it moving forward and to protect the environment. the rapporteur, mr grosch, has made some very good suggestions, including on the optimal use of appropriate means of transport and combined transport. it is clear that not all modes of transport can be used in a meaningful and appropriate way for all regions and all countries. i refer in this context to the so-called gigaliners. these are trucks that are one third longer and twice as heavy as the trucks that have been approved and used so far. for my country, austria, the use of these giant lorries would simply be an economic nuisance. the infrastructure adaptations that would have to be made if we had to do this on transit routes alone, such as bridges, emergency stops, motorway parking lots or roundabouts, would require some eur 1 billion. the amendments we have tabled to paragraph 26 have, however, succeeded in ensuring that these gigaliners will not be authorized throughout europe. it will be up to the member states to decide whether or not to allow these lorries on their territory. what is good for sweden's timber transport and timber industry and transport industry is not acceptable and meaningful for austrian alpine transit. i am therefore pleased that this compromise has been reached and that the member states are free to decide whether or not to allow this means of transport on their roads.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles is a step in the right direction. the commission has made very little, if any, progress in certain areas such as the single european railway market, the transeuropean core network, the single european airspace or the proliferation of alternative propulsion. the white paper contains very ambitious climate targets for the transport sector, such as the zero-carbon area for urban logistics, and one wonders whether this is not a bit illusory. sustainable transport could lead to a sustainable economy, but only if it not only focuses on climate objectives, but also manages to meet the mobility needs of citizens and stimulate economic growth accordingly.
in writing. the european parliament will be discussing the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and uzbekistan tomorrow. the technical aspect to be discussed here is clear: the main objective of including trade provisions on textiles in the ppa is to guarantee greater security for the european economy. as uzbekistan is not a member of the world trade organization, there is little legal recourse on the part of uzbekistan in the event of arbitrary changes in customs duties or other non-tariff barriers to trade. in view of this, the extension of the pka to the textile trade is a logical step. much more worrying to me is the fact that uzbekistan has been facing allegations of child labour for a long time. these accusations should be put to rest once and for all. international observers, such as those from the international labour organization, are to check the status quo in the country and provide information. if the fears are confirmed, the eu must not support this state of affairs by expanding trade. forced child labour and the worst forms of child labour must be combated worldwide. i therefore support the rapporteur's interim report, which has been tabled and supported by all the groups, and which makes the approval of the amendment to the cap subject to clear conditions.
i have to say, madam president, i've got ten points left. we must distinguish between the request and, unfortunately, i am very sorry about the resolution. firstly, the mobility of workers. we are absolutely in favour of that. secondly, the prohibition of discrimination is a fundamental right of the european union. thirdly, the free movement of workers is a fundamental right. fourthly, the internal market can only function if the four fundamental freedoms are implemented everywhere. fifthly, we also need the creation of economic and social union. sixth, we must not ignore people's fears. but they are unfounded. seventhly, austria has no reason at present to maintain the restrictions. but there is an existing bilateral treaty that must be respected. eighth: criminalizing bilateral treaties is detrimental to the cause. we are a community of law. ninthly, if we are breaking eu law, the commission should act now. finally, let us look to the future. blaming and implying will not help us. the claims that are being made are only viable after 2013, when the restrictions are already expiring, and the current arrangements cannot interfere with existing contracts. it is therefore difficult to vote in favour of the resolution, despite the request.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr geier, for his contribution to the effectiveness and efficiency of eu development assistance in afghanistan. the commission shares the view that our commitment to afghanistan must focus on the long-term perspective. at the bonn conference on 5 december 2011 the eu looked to the afghan government to provide the context for this long-term engagement by improving governance and the rule of law and making other structural reforms which are necessary for the transformation of afghanistan into a fully-functioning, sustainable state at the service of its people. in bonn the eu and its member states also announced the negotiation of a partnership agreement on cooperation and development with afghanistan. this agreement will create a coherent, legally-binding overall framework for eu relations with afghanistan. this long-term commitment will be conditional on the afghan government’s progress in further strengthening public finance management systems, reducing corruption, improving budget execution, developing a financing strategy and increasing government capacity. the establishment of a fully independent control and audit office will also remain a precondition for budget support. as the afghan government progressively takes over full responsibility for security and development, we also expect democratic institutions to be strengthened both at central and provincial level. in this context the commission will continue to assist afghanistan by ensuring that monitoring mechanisms adequately address corruption and proper management of aid and that the recipient communities are involved in identifying needs and shaping development assistance policies. shortcomings of external assistance in afghanistan are the result of a complex mix of political factors, military insurgency, economic underdevelopment and drug trafficking, to name just a few. in this environment, multi-donor trust funds have been instrumental in pooling donors around afghan-owned strategies, harmonising aid and contributing to strengthening national public finance management capacities. they also enable the efficient donor division of labour and facilitate pooling donors’ specific expertise and resources. the eu aims to surpass the goal of providing 50% of development assistance either directly (on budget) or through multi-donor trust funds, as agreed within the kabul process. in buzan earlier this month the commission reiterated its commitment towards aid effectiveness, focusing and deepening on results and accountability, ownership, transparency and reduced fragmentation of aid. this is also our commitment to afghanistan. with 2014 on the horizon, we will need to focus on reinforcing current mechanisms to ensure that afghanistan becomes a fully-functioning and sustainable state capable of fighting fraud and corruption.
i have to say, madam president, i have read the report, of course. we have already invested more than eur 2 billion in afghanistan from the european union between 2002 and 2010. i think the report comes to a very clear conclusion: there is a high level of corruption, a lack of administrative capacity, a high risk of waste, no independent control bodies, projects without sustainability and effectiveness, and unrealistic timing of projects. in my view, we as the budgetary control authority cannot guarantee to the european taxpayers that the money in afghanistan is being used economically and sustainably. we cannot guarantee that these problems will be solved in the medium term. that is why i have come to a different conclusion from some of my colleagues, namely that we should end this armed development aid to afghanistan as soon as possible.
question for the commissioner: mr alvaro, i would like to thank you for your suggestions that additional instruments should be found. it is also a question of finding employers again, young, well-trained employers who are then able to secure employment. can you imagine the liberal group taking an initiative here?
in writing. the globalisation fund was established to help workers affected by the far-reaching changes brought about by globalisation, in particular by the relocation of businesses to third countries. the european fund is essential for the workers affected by the global economic and financial crisis if it is to mitigate at least to some extent its effects. it is also an important sign that the eu is there for the people of europe and helping them to find a new job. it is not in any way justifiable to open up this fund to the sector which is already the most supported by the eu - the agricultural sector - up to 83%. the support of industrial workers is needed now more than ever. two thirds of all applications for egf support came in 2010 and 2011, so it can be concluded that there is an increasing tendency for workers to recognise that there is something they can get help from. these figures show that the fund is needed by industrial workers. i am in favour of limiting the egf to industrial workers only.
i have to say, madam president, respect for the rapporteur, that was work. but we are still dealing with the core problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the banking sector has been failed. the fact that we have allowed so many institutions to emerge within the european single market, which have become systemic risks, is now falling on the taxpayers' heads. we must not allow ourselves to be blinded by ideological blinders, which justify our inaction. that brings me to the area of antitrust law. it is time to put the indicators used to evaluate market dominance on a pan-european scale and to consider whether we need smaller units. we see it in a variety of areas, including concentrations, where the principle of thirds is applied and where individual consumers are disadvantaged rather than benefited. this report was drawn up at a time when we were not yet dealing with the decisions of the last eu summit. it will be very interesting to see what the consequences of the british government's announced withdrawal from the london financial centre will be and what the commission will draw from it. all i can say is, be vigilant and don't let the city of london turn a blind eye to us in the end.
in writing. − the eu committee on budgetary control has decided to examine in more detail the management of eu funds in afghanistan. the result of this evaluation was that enormous deficiencies were found. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the eu's external action. from this analysis he concludes that the future method should be "direct budgetary aid to the afghan state budget" - i do not agree with this. the rapporteur acknowledges the problem of vulnerability to fraud and corruption, but believes that the clause allowing badly functioning administrations to withdraw budgetary aid is a sufficient countermeasure. the obligation to provide accounts is not sufficiently met and the actual assistance provided by the individual is at best only mediocre. the disadvantages of 'joint management with international organisations' are not easy to overcome: it should be clear that ngos that receive eu funds for management should provide clear and unambiguous periodic accounts of what has been spent and how much has been spent, and these reports should also be published on the institutions' website.
in writing. − the expectations expressed in the report regarding further improvements in the egf's procedure and the call for a higher level of efficiency and transparency and for better visibility of the fund are welcome. in times of economic uncertainty, it is all the more important to be able to help those people who have lost their jobs as a result of the current financial and economic crisis. the improvements required should enable the fund to provide more targeted and rapid interventions in the future. efficient use of assistance for areas with high unemployment is essential. finally, it would be fatal if people who have become unemployed could not be helped as quickly as possible because of a lengthy egf procedure. i therefore support the demands and expectations set out in the report. i therefore gave my consent.
in writing. − to comply with the lisbon treaty provisions for greater transparency, the regulation needs to be revised urgently. all documents must be made publicly available in order to respond as quickly as possible to the growing demands of citizens and national institutions. at the same time, it is important that documents made public are clearly worded and that access to them is simple and user-friendly for citizens. public access to documents strengthens citizens' trust in the eu by enabling them to better understand decisions taken at eu level. the amendment to the proposal for a regulation provides for greater transparency without complicating the instrument, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa), which has been in existence since 2003, needs to be restructured and its remit extended. in particular, effective measures against and effective sanctions against marine pollution by ships are important. the emsa must also be responsible for enhancing the attractiveness of maritime professions and for advising the member states on this matter. i agreed to it.
in writing. the eu has taken measures to date, such as arms embargoes, account closures, investment bans and an oil embargo, which are certainly putting a strain on the syrian economy. it is important that not only the west, but also the arab league and the gulf cooperation council continue to call on assad to make serious reforms and to stop the bloodshed. in addition, there seems to be growing resistance among the population, just think of the recent general strikes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i voted for the resolution in that sense.
in writing. − according to united nations estimates, over 5,000 people have been killed in the uprising against the assad regime in syria - including some 300 children. the european parliament reiterated its call on the syrian regime to relinquish state power. the house also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. parliament called on the opposition movement to organise itself in a peaceful way and to make a transition to democracy, and warned that unchecked militarisation and the use of force would not be adequate protection for the civilian population.
in writing. − recent data show that the further development of the euro area economies tends to diverge. the economic governance package also adopted a system for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances, including an early warning system. the european parliament, in the light of the latest statistics from eurostat, is now calling for the scoreboard to be launched as soon as possible. i agreed to it.
in writing. - the current white paper essentially sets out the same objectives as ten years ago. progress has been made, at best, slow in certain areas, such as the single european railway market, the trans-european core network, the single european airspace and the spread of alternative propulsion and fuels. the objectives set, namely to achieve zero-carbon urban logistics in major urban centres by 2030 and to completely phase out conventional fuel vehicles by 2050, must not lead to a 'ban' on conventional fuels. sustainable transport can lead to a sustainable economy. but only if we do not just focus on climate goals, but also manage to meet the mobility needs of citizens and stimulate economic growth. i voted in favour of that.
in writing. - the creation of a single european transport area is the aim of european transport policy, since it would mean the completion of the european internal market. the safety aspect must be given special attention, with the aim of reducing the number of deaths and serious injuries by 50% by 2020. therefore, uniform safety standards across the eu and their continuous review are urgently needed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in addition, environmental and climate objectives should be given priority in the creation of a single european transport area. i agreed to it.
in writing. - the conditions of detention in the various member states vary considerably, particularly as regards the facilities of prisons and the length of probation. although criminal law falls within the competence of the member states, conditions of detention very often affect human rights such as the right to liberty, human dignity and legal aid. the european arrest warrant, which prevents suspects from escaping prosecution by fleeing to another member state, will only be effective if the conditions of detention in the member states are of similar standards. similarly, mutual recognition of judgments can only be ensured if there is mutual trust between the judicial authorities of the member states. a common approach at eu level is therefore urgently needed. i agreed to it.
in writing. - i have agreed to the interim report on the amendment of the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement. the fact that uzbekistan has been facing allegations of child labour for a long time cannot be taken lightly. the eu has a clear responsibility to ensure that the values it stands for are respected in trade agreements. the interim report links parliament's approval of improvements in uzbekistan in the area of child labour and the admission of international observers to the country. i agreed to that.
in writing. the eu has a longstanding policy of supporting the development of the economy and the economy of the country. to meet governmental cotton quotas, more children are being used to harvest. the uzbek government denies this practice and denied access to an ilo commission of inquiry. in order to guarantee human and children's rights, the eu should initiate the withdrawal of the gsp rights for cotton. in future, products made by child labour must not be granted preferential access! i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the report on the state of implementation of the eu strategy for central asia has been less successful. the european union must pursue a strategy for asia, but it should be limited to economic aspects. the european union is not entitled to express its opinion on issues such as climate policy and the cultural situation of asian peoples. i think that the report has made some good points, particularly in the economic aspects, but it has not been successful overall because of some of the deviating assessments. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − while the eu's central asia strategy, launched in 2007, has been a major success, it needs to be reviewed and adapted to current conditions. in particular, the eu must oppose the repressive methods used by central asian governments to try to ensure the stability of their regimes based on personal power. the eu must not support these regimes because of its own interests, such as the supply of natural gas, but must actively promote the security of its citizens and respect for human rights. it is also essential to tackle problems such as organised crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and climate change. i agreed to it.
in writing. − it has long been known that workers suffer from poor work organisation and management. this is not to be changed by research into the link between health problems at work and the organisation of work. many psychosocial risks are also linked to the increasing stress of a globalised world of work and the developments in modern society. as the rapporteur rightly points out, not all problems can be solved by legislation. but it is doubtful that brussels is clear on this. finally, the protection of workers was used as a pretext for attempting to regulate the consumption of cigarettes in catering establishments, instead of going out into the open with the underlying concern of non-smoking protection and seeking common solutions in civil and everyday contracts. i have incorporated these considerations into my voting behaviour.
in writing. − with the 1989 framework directive, the risk directive and reach, the eu has a comprehensive acquis in the field of health and safety at work. however, this needs to be adapted to new risks such as psychosocial illnesses. in addition, special protection must be given to groups at risk, such as construction workers and people in precarious employment. this is why there is a need for better information to workers on prevention measures and for regular training for workers in hazardous occupations. better protection of workers also has positive effects on labour productivity and the competitiveness of enterprises, and also reduces the costs of social security systems. i agreed to it.
